==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of a petition of appeal in

terms of section 331 (1) of the Code of

Criminal Procedure Act No 15 of 1979 in

the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

lanka.

H.C. Case No. HCEP/2676/10

C.A.Case No. CA 84/2012 Christy Sellor,

No. 59/20,

Sinnauppodai,

Batticaloa.

Accused - Appellant

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Dept.

Colombo 12.

Respondent

1

\

BEFORE H.N.J. PERERA, J

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J

COUNSEL J. Jeyakumar with P. Krishanthen

for the Defendant Appellant.

P. Kumareratnam DSG for the

Respondent.

ARGUED ON 26.01.2015

DECIDED ON 22.06.2015

PoWoDoCo Jayathilake, J

Vedaaranian Chithralekha was 21 by 23.09.2008. She was the youngest

daughter of a family of three daughters and two sons. She was studying for her

2

external degree. On the said date Chithralekha went to Kovil in the evening by

bicycle and was on her way home at about 5.30 p.m. At this time the lorry

bearing No. EPJV 6679 was on a trial run, being driven by Christy, the Garage

Owner while the driver of the lorry was seated on the other seat. Christy drove

the vehicle up to the Hindu Kovil and turned back and was returning to the

garage. The driver who was sitting by the side of the driver seat, saw a girl

going in the same direction on a bicycle. She was on the left side of the road

riding slowly. She got hit on the body of the lorry while the lorry was

overtaking her. The girl collided by the lorry was Chithraleka who was on her

way back from the Kovil.

Chithraleka had been dead when she was admitted to hospital. The death had

taken place at about 5.30 p.m.

Christy Seller the Accused Appellant was indicted for causing the death of

Vedaaranian Chithraleka by committing rash acts by driving the lorry bearing

No. EP JV 6679 on 23rd September 2008 in Batticaloa. He has been convicted

after trial and sentenced to two years' rigorous imprisonment with a fine of Rs:

10,000/- carrying a default sentence of 6 months imprisonment. Being

dissatisfied with the said conviction and the sentence the Accused Appellant

has preferred this appeal.

3

II! 1

\,

I! I1 !!I

t I II,

The Judicial Medical Officer has observed the following injuries on

Chithraleka's body.

1. A bruised wound on the right side of the abdomen below the navel.

2. Four small abrasions on the back of the right elbow.

3. Two to Ten ribs on the right side go the chest being fractured.

4. The liver lacerated into many pieces.

5. 1.5 liters of blood has been expelled into the cavity of the abdomen.

According to the Judicial Medical Officer, the death was due to severe

laceration of the liver. The Judicial Medical Officer has expressed his opinion

that the injury caused to the liver may have been affected by weighty object.

When considering the injuries that had caused to Chithraleka in the accident, it

is obvious that the vehicle had hit her right side.

According to the evidence of the eye witness, Chithraleka had been riding her

bicycle on the left side of the road when the lorry was overtaking her.

The investigating officer has identified the point of impact 0.70 meter inside off

the edge of the road. It shows that she had been keeping to her track. The road

was clear and devoid of vehicles at that time according to the eye witness. The

Accused Appellant was changing the gears in order to find out the defect of the

gear system.

4

!

\

J I,I t

I l i It

~ I

I II

\[

"The eye witness has stated he engaged the second gear only, with great

difficulty to engage, he drove on."

In my opinion, the facts so far discussed themselves speak how the incident

had occurred.

It appears that the Accused Appellant while driving the lorry had not paid any

attention to others on the road. If he had paid the slightest attention to the girl

who was riding he could have driven the lorry leaving sufficient space between

the cycle and the lorry avoiding the collision. Therefore not only the maxim,

" res ipsa locutur" applicable here but also these facts lead to the inference

that the Accused Appellant's state of mind that prevailed at the time of the

incident was nothing but something like (let anything happen'. If anyone drives

a vehicle with the state of mind, let anything happen, then all ingredients

relevant to Sec.2g8 of the Penal Code, come into existence.

With all that, defence that had been taken up by the Accused Appellant in his

dock statement was that the girl who had been coming behind the lorry had hit

the lorry which was moving slowly and fallen on the road. This situation is not

only contrary to the evidence of the eye witness but also does not tally with

the medical evidence.

5

\

1 i I \

~ -I

j

-I

f

* I 1 J j 1-i I f

\

j 1-I

I

I-l I j I

i

i ! I j .

The learned trial judge has arrived at the decision of conviction after due

consideration of evidence which established the high degree of negligence on

the part the accused according to her opinion. Therefore we see no reason to

interfere with the judgment of the trial court and as such we affirm the

conviction and the sentence of the learned trial judge and dismiss the Appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

H.N.J. PERERA, J

tfI

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

6