==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. 622/2010 (Writ)

1. Nadarajah Kumarasivam

No. 51 3/1, 33 rd Lane,

Colombo 6.

2. Ramalingam Suntharalingam

Sivan Lodge

Urumpirai West, Urumpirai,

Jaffna.

3. Vallipuram Ganeshalingam

No. 4A, International Buddhist

Centre Road, Colombo 6.

And presently of No.9, Windsor

Road, IIford Essex, 1G11HG,

United Kingdom.

4. Subbiah Sanmuganathan

No. E/2/6, Anderson Flats,

Narahenpita, Colombo 5.

And presently of No. 118, Bodley

Road, New Malden, Surrey, KT3

5QH, United Kingdom.

5. Sathasivam Thambithurai

Suthumalai North

Manipay, Jaffna.

6. Thambipillai Rajathurai

No. 46/2/1, 33rd Lane,

Colombo 6. And presently at No.

122, John Tabor Trail, Toronto,

Ontario, MIB 2V2, Canada.

f

\

ff i t IlI

rIf

~ f ti I

tt

f

!! 1

C.A 622/2010 (Writ)

7. Kathiravelu Ganesadasan

Suthumalai South,

Manipay,

Jaffna.

2

8. Muthucumaru Pathmanathan

No. 125, College Street,

Trincomalee and presently of

No. 70, Kirkcroft,

Wigginton York, YO 32 2GH,

United Kingdom.

9. Sivacoomarasooriar

Kathirgamacoomarasooriar

No. 44/5, 4/2, Greed Wood

Home, 'Dharmarama Road,

Colombon6.

PETITIONERS

Vs.

1. W. Karunajeewa

The Chairman

People's Bank, Head Office,

Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner

Mawatha, Colombo 2.

1A. Gamini Senarath

The Chairman

People's Bank, Head Office,

Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner

Mawatha, Colombo 2.

2. K. H. L. Chandrasiri

Deputy General Manager

Human Resources,

I f ! Irk 1I :f I

,

i I 1 j ! i

~ i I 1 i

f 1 I l I

1 '/ J J

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERATNE J.

Ani! Gooneratne J.

Head Office,

Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner

Mawatha, Colombo 2.

3. The People's Bank

Head Office,

Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner

Mawatha, Colombo 2.

RESPONDENTS

M. A. Sumanthiran with J. Arulananthan &

A. Logenthiran for Petitioners

Sanjeewa Jayawardena P.e. with Rajeev Amarasuriya

for lA, 2 & 3 Respondents

27.11.2013

27.03.2014

3

The nine Petitioners in this Writ Application have sought a Mandate

in the nature of Writ of Mandamus to compel the Respondents to implement

the recommendation of the Human Rights Commission contained in

t I I

;

4

document marked P3 dated 6.11.2008. Application has been filed in this court

by Petition dated 20.9.2010. Petitioners claim that they were absorbed into

the People's Bank by order (R1) made by the then Finance Minister Hon. Dr.

N.M. Perera in terms of Section 24(1) of the People's Bank Act. Prior to such

absorption Petitioners were employees of former Co-operative Banks.

The complaint of the Petitioner as contained in the pleadings and as

submitted to this court by learned counsel for the Petitioners is that the failure

on the part of the authorities to evaluate the qualification and experience of

the Petitioners in relation to their designation in terms of Section 24(1) of the

above Act. As such Petitioners filed an application with the Human Rights

Commission and as pleaded in paras 4 to 8 of the petition a recommendation

was made in favour of the Petitioners (P3). There is also reference to P4 by the

Petitioners. However the Respondents have failed to implement such

recommendation. PS is a letter addressed to His Excellency the President on

non implementation of the recommendation. The response to PS is contained

in letter P6 which is self explanatory.

The Respondent resist this application on several points and more

particularly the material contained in para 2 of the objections of the

Respondents which suggest the grounds of objections which are fundamental

5

to a Writ Application of this nature. It is inter alia pleaded that the application

is not amenable to the writ jurisdiction of this court, laches, acquiesce since

Petitioner have already retired and relief sought are misconceived,

recommendations of Human Rights Commission is illegal, ultra vires since it

cannot review its own decision and as such functus, matter of contract,

necessary parties not before court etc.

In perusing the material placed before this court by way of pleadings

and the annexed documents, it is very apparent that the Petitioners are guilty

of laches. There is in fact an unexplained delay of almost 2 years. (vide (1928)

29 NLR 389; 69 NLR 211; 1982 (1) SLR 123, 130, 205(1) SLR 67). I do agree with

the Respondents that the People's Bank is a primarily a licenced Commercial

Bank and the District Co-operative Bank is a Development Bank, which

functions of one another may be different, as such the 3

rd Respondent would

have undergone logistical and administrative difficulties in the absorption

process of the Petitioners. The Petitioners who were employees of the former

Vavuniya District Co-operative Bank entered into contracts with 3

rd

Respondent to be bound by its terms and conditions, letters R2(a) - R2(i) being

letters of appointment containing several conditions. (in this regard further

documents are marked and produced (R3(a) to R11(a) as described in para 4C

J ! I i

I

~ I ! I i

~

1

6

of the objections). It appears to this court that this is more or less a matter of

contract and cannot be subject to the writ jurisdiction of this court.

Respondents also rely on the determination of the Human Rights

Commission marked and produced R16 and report R17. Document R17 of

17.3.2008 is a legally acceptable document which disclose no violation and

infringement of fundamental rights. As such the letters relied upon by the

Petitioners P3 & P4 appears to be an inconsistent illegal and an arbitrary

decision. The Respondent in their objection itself refer to several matters to

demonstrate the illegality of the Human Rights Commission orders in P3 & P4

and this court cannot reject Respondent's position on same or take it lightly.

The provisions of the Human Rights Commissions Act does not

contain provisions to revise or amend its own recommendation. Respondents

agree that certain other statutes like the Debt Conciliation Act, vest its Board

to review its own orders and pass such other order it deems fit. Similar

provisions are not found in the Human Rights Commission Act. As such once an

order is made the authority concerned under the human Rights Act would be

functus. I would further elaborate the concept of functus officio.

,!I ! I ! i t ir t

i

~,

i i r! I!!I!

J,

I I

7

Functus officio

A judgment written out by a Judge after he became functus officio

and delivered by his successor in office with the consent of parties is bad

notwithstanding such consent. 7 NLR 337; 1 CWR 68.

Pg. 1131 Strouds Judicial

Dictionary - pg. 1131 ...... Judge has made order for a stay of execution which

has been passed and entered, he is functus officio, he nor any other Judge of

equal jurisdiction has jurisdiction to vary the terms 1941 3 AER 417.

The above legal position would deny the Human Right Commission to

vary its own order P3. As such I hold that P3 is illegal and cannot be

implemented and not amenable to the writ jurisdiction of this court and on

that basis also this application need to be rejected.

The other matter emphasized by the Respondent is that the relief

sought directly or indirectly in a way cling on to payment of salary, arrears of

pension are purely within the realm of contracts. As such not amenable to the

writ jurisdiction of this court.

The Petitioners are persons who have retired. As such even if an

expectation of a right exists it certainly cannot amount to a legitimate

expectation.

f i ! 1

~ !

8

However before I conclude I would advert to the following

authorities to demonstrate the discretionary nature of the Writ of Mandamus

and as such, I am reluctantly compelled to reject this application.

A mandamus will not be granted to correct an erroneous decision as to fact 2 c.L.W. 14:

10 Times 65; 12 Law Rec. 176. The grant of a mandamus is a matter for the discretion of the

Court. It is not a writ of right and is not issued as a matter of course. 1 c.L.W. 306. It is a rule

almost inflexible that a mandamus will not be allowed where there is an adequate

alternative remedy. 17 N.L.R. at 318; 2 c.L.W. 330; 35 N.L.R. 225.

The Court before issuing a writ of mandamus is entitled to take into consideration the

consequences which the issue of the writ will entail. 34 N.L.R 33. A mandamus will not issue

where it would be futile and could not be obeyed. 33 N.L.R. 257; 1C.L.W. 109, nor where its

obedience by the officer to whom it is addressed will involve the violation by him of some

other provisions of law. 9 Times 70. A party applying for a mandamus must make out a legal

right and a legal obligation. 1 N.L.R at 35.

In all the above circumstances in view of the above matters referred

to in this judgment I hold that this is not a fit and proper case to extend the

writ jurisdiction of this court. As such I dismiss this application without costs.

BJG~

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

, I I

~

~ f !

\

I I

t I,

J