==== BLOCKS ==== 

'. ..

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for the issue of a mandate in the nature of a writ of certiorari and/ or mandamus under Article 140 of the Constitution of Sri Lanka.

Sri Lankan Airlines Limited, Airline Centre, Bandaranayaka International Airport, Katunayaka.

Petitioner

Vs.

1. Sri Lankan Airlines Aircraft Technicians Association, No: 14, Mahawela Place, Kirulapona, Colombo 06.

2. The Minister of Labour and

Labour Relations, Labour Secretariat, Narahenpita, Colombo 05.

3. The Commissioner of Labour,

Labour Secretariat, Narahenpita, Colombo 05.

4. Mr. Palitah Weerasekera, No: 33/2, Nimala Maria Mawatha, Handala, Wattala.

Respondents

1

tII-

C.A. Writ Application No. 89/2012

Before

Counsel

Argued & Decided on

W.L.R. Silva,J. (Acting P JCA)

Gomin Daysiri with Mrs Nandi Jinadasa for the petitioner.

Nimal Hapuarachchi for the 1 st Respondent.

04.05.2012

W.L.R. Silva,J. (Acting P,C/A

Heard counsel in support of this case. In effect what he

IS challenging is the decision of the Arbitrator allowing

additional evidence to be taken on behalf of the respondent

after they closed their case and the matter was fIxed for

written submissions.

The Learned arbitrator has cited the Judgment of His

Lordship Kulatunga,J in Shahul Hameed Kithar Mohamed vs.

2

..

• Wanigasinghe Mudiyanselage Gunapala, respondent in SC No.

49/93, HC Uva 29/91 Labour Tribunal, Bandula No:

5/15113/83 wherein His Lordship Justice Kulatunga held as

follows: "I am also of the view that the conduct of the

tribunal in permitting the respondent to call evidence after he

had closed his case is un objectionable. It is the duty of the

tribunal to hear all evidence without being hamstrung by

technicalities. The calling of additional evidence has not

caused prejudice to the appellant.

The Learned counsel in support of this application

submitted that in that case the evidence had gone in un-

objected and that it has not caused any prejudice. He further

contended that the criterian that has to be considered is the

absence of prejudice.

I disagree because I feel that, in my opInIon, H/L

Kulatunga,J. has categorically emphasized that an arbitrator

or a tribunal should not be hamstrung by technicalities and it

/..! the duty of such tribunal or arbitrator to hear all such f

3

" -

evidence necessary because finally what is expected is a just

and equitable order substantially different from a judgment of

a6)Urt~~o ~

Acting PRESIDNENT E OURT OF APPEAL

Jmrj-

4