==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 67/2008 (Writ)

Singer (Sri Lanka) Limited

320, Dr. Colvin R De Silva Mawatha,

Colombo 02.

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. Sarath Jayathilake

Director General of Customs

Customs House, Times Building,

P.O.Box 518, Colombo 1.

2. V. S. Sudusinghe

Deputy Director of Customs

Customs Investigations Bureau

Customs House, Times Building,

P.O.Box 518, Colombo 1.

3. Sisira De Silva

Superintendent of Customs

Customs Investigations Bureau

Customs House, Times Building,

P.O.Box 518, Colombo 1.

4. Samantha Gunewardene

Chief Preventive Officer

Customs House, Times Building,

P.O. Box 518, Colombo 1.

1

j , I I! t II

I

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

H. N. J. Perera

5. K. Yoganathan

Superintendent of Customs

Post Clearance & Audit (PCAB)

Customs House, Times Building,

P.O. Box 518, Colombo 1.

6. W. A. U. Abayawardena

Superintendent of Customs

Post Clearance & Audit (PCAB)

Customs House, Times Building,

P.O.Box 518, Colombo 1.

7. Controller of Exchange

Central Bank of Sri Lanka

Janadhipathi Mawatha,

Colombo 1.

RESPONDENTS

M. A. Sumanthiran with Viran Corea and

S.A. Beling for the Petitioner

Janak de Silva D.S.G., for Respondents

28.03.2013

03.09.2013

2

1IIi ,

i ,

t

III

)

\•

tiI

I

3

GOONERATNE J.

The Petitioner in this Writ Application is Singer (Sri Lanka) Limited. In

the petition it is pleaded that the Petitioner Company placed an order for a

consignment of 2821 units of Colour Television as described in paragraph 7 of the

petition. The said consignment arrived in the Port of Colombo on 28th November

2007, but was detained by the 6th Respondent for a detailed examination (PS).

Petitioner pleads that the CIF value of the total number of units would be

approximately Rs. 20 million. The point that needs to be decided is pleaded from

paragraph 10 onwards of the petition of the Petitioner Company, that on 3

rd

December 2007 the Petitioner Company was informed by the Customs

Department that clarification was needed on the payment of 'Royalties' in

relation to the units contained in the consignment. There had been some letters

addressed to the customs Department explaining the position of the Petitioner

Company on the question of 'Royalty' payments (P7, P8 P9, Pll & P14). Further

several appeals were also made by the Petitioner Company. Petitioner also makes

reference to P12, (internal correspondence of the Customs Department) wherein

a minute in P12 state to release the goods on a bank guarantee.

rI

It-I

If II

f

Ii

r•k

4

Petitioners in their submissions demonstrate that the Customs

Officials had entertained certain doubts regarding payment, of 'Royalties' and as a

result this application had to be filed. It is pleaded that despite many efforts taken

by the Petitioner Company the Respondents continue to unfairly, maliciously and

unlawfully detain the above consignment without intimating the reasons as in

Section 51 A(l)(b) of the Customs Ordinance. The Petitioner seeks as their main

relief a Writ of Certiorari to quash the decision of the Respondents to detain the

above consignment as described in sub paragraph Ie' of the prayer to the Petition

and a Writ of Mandamus to release the above consignment to the Petitioner.

Petitioner Company maintains it has made a correct declaration to

the Respondents regarding 'Royalties' and license fees to be paid by the

Petitioner. Further it is pleaded that Respondents have failed and refus@d to

comply with the mandatory requirement of the law as contained in Section 51A of

the Customs Ordinance. The said 51A contemplate an amendment to the value

only and no provision for forfeiture or seizure of goods. Detention of the good is

ultra vires the powers of the Respondent under the Customs Ordinance.

Petitioner also pleads that the seizure notice issued after filing of the instant

application is ultra vires the powers granted by statute.

fI

J

fI!! II!i

r

t· fIjI

\

f

5

Perusal of the objections of the Respondents, inter alia it is pleaded

that:

(a) Customs Department investigation reveal an exchange control violation in

addition to Customs Ordinance Violation.

(b) "Singer" on the product is a trademark belonging to the intellectual

property owner Mis. Singer Asia Limited (worldwide licensor of 'Singer

trademark.

(c) Consignment detained under the provisions of the Customs Ordinance.

(d) A more detailed version is contained in paragraph 10 of the objections and

same need to be incorporated for better understanding of the main issue.

(i) The officers attached to the Post Audit Branch (PCAB) of the Customs visited the

(i i)

(ii i)

importer's premises in the course of the customs investigation on the day of the

detailed examination of the 7 containers, containing colour televisions bearing

"SINGER" trademark;

The importer produced a copy of the royalty agreement related to "SINGER"

trademark which was in its possession at the time of the PCAB officers visit to Singer

Sri Lanka. Neither this agreement nor the information of the royalty payment was

submitted to Customs at the time of the importation of the above television. They

said the royalty agreement came into force with effect from October 1st 2005;

According to the said royalty agreement the licensee must pay 1% of the net

revenue of the importer as a license fee to the licensor M/s. Singer Asia Ltd in

Cayman Islands. The license was obtained by the licensee M/s Singer Sri

Lanka/importer for the right to use the "SINGER" trademarks on and in connection

with the products in Sri Lanka. In terms of the license agreement currently in force

the licensee/petitioner must pay license fee/royalties to the licensor M/s Singer Asia

Ltd in Cayman Islands. Also the detailed cost structure of the two models of

IrFt IIIII

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

6

televisions submitted by the importer during investigations reveal that the value of

the royalty amount payable by the importer with regard to the goods being valued

by the customs (television);

Customs investigation carried out with HSBC bank revealed that the

licensee/Petitioner had illegally remitted several millions of rupees in foreign

exchange in the past to a company which is incorporated outside Sri Lanka namely

Singer Asia Holding Ltd which is related to the seller of the above televisions.

Investigations further revealed that the importer had submitted a license agreement

dated May 1, 2001 followed by Notice of Assignment of Trademark License

Agreement dated May 1, 2001 to the bank and illegally remitted large sums of

money in foreign exchange under the guise of royalties to a company in Netherlands

namely Singer Asia Holdings Ltd since October 1st 2005. It should be noted according

to license agreement in force M/s Singer Asia Ltd I n Cayman Islands is the

licensor/beneficiary permitted in terms of the Exchange Control Act to receive the

royalties as service payment.

The HSBC bank admitted that they have remitted the money according to the

expired agreement since October 1st 2005. The HSBC bank has admitted in the

statement that they were never provided with the current agreement which carYle to

force with effect from 1st October, 2005 until the Customs Investigations

commenced into this fraudulent financial transactions.

In terms of the law, the licensee/Petitioner did not have to make any payment to the

licensor M/s Signer Asia Holdings Ltd since the royalty agreement between Signer

Asia Holdings Ltd (licensor) and M/s Signer Sri Lanka (licensee) had expired. However

the Petitioner and the relevant bank jointly engaged in this fraud and violated the

laws of the country. Therefore the foreign payment made to M/s Singer Asia

Holdings Ltd in Netherlands under the guise of royalties is not royalty payments and

clear contravention of the provisions of the Exchange Control Act. The bank has

admitted that they had violated the provisions of the Exchange Control Act.

7

(vii) The Finance Manager of the Petitioner/importer had admitted in his statement that

the Petitioner pays 1% of the resale value of all the branded items sold by the

importer to a foreign Company namely Singer Asia Holdings Ltd which is related to

the seller. This payment information was suppressed deliberately to customs by the

importer by making false declaration at (f) and (j) of column 16 of the related

customs VDF to evade customs duties.

(viii) Any part of the sale proceeds of the imported goods which, directly or indirectly,

accrues back to the seller is an addition in terms of Article 8(d) of Schedule E of the

Customs Amendment Act No.2 of 2003 and should be added to the Customs Value

for the purposes of determining value for duty. However the importer had not only

failed to declare the value of the sale proceeds that accrued to the seller in the VDF,

which is required to be submitted in terms of the Customs Ordinance, related to

Customs declaration number 127102 (marked P4) but also has made a false

declaration with regard to the value as 0 (Zero). Also the importer had made false

declaration in the same VDF as 0 (Zero) with regard to the value of the royalty

payment (royalties) which it must pay to the licensor in terms of the current Royalty

agreement in force with effect from 1st October 2005.

The important point that was argued in this case is the question of payment

of 'Royalty'. Petitioner maintain it is not payable, but the Customs Department

take the contrary view. There are some forceful arguments presented on behalf

of the Petitioner Company that in terms of the license agreement Pi0, the

Petitioner has agreed to pay Royalty payment, on the turnover of goods sold and

for services provided under the trade name of the company. As such Royalty

payments attach to the use of the company name and not on the value of the

f l ! t II!

1

\

8

goods. This seems to be the more simplified argument of the Petitioner Company.

Further the final 'Royalty' payment could only be assessed on the nett sales.

Petitioner strongly urge that license fees do not include all license fees paid, but

applies only to license fees that are related to the goods being valued and a

condition of the sale. The position of the Petitioner is that it does not pay

Royalties as a condition of the sale of the goods being valued.

Petitioner has also referred to Sections 51 A, 51A(1), 52 of the

Customs Ordinance and emphasis the fact that the Respondents have not acted in

terms of Section 51A of the Customs Ordinance and Respondents cannot in the

circumstances of the case act under Section 52.

The said Section 51 A reads thus:

51A (1)

(a) Whenever an officer of customs has reason to doubt the truth or accuracy of any

particulars contained in a bill of entry or a declaration made under section 51 or the

documents presented to him in support of a bill of entry under section 47, the officer of

customs may require the importer or his agent or any other party connected with the

importation of goods, to furnish such other information, including documentary or other

evidence in proof of the fact that the declared customs value represents the total

amount actually paid or is payable for the imported goods as adjusted in accordance

with Article 8 of Schedule E.

(b) After the receipt of further information or in the absence of any response, if the officer

of customs still has reasonable doubt as to the truth or accuracy of the declared

9

customs value, it shall be deemed that the customs value of the imported goods in

question cannot be determined under the provisions of Article 1 of Schedule E and the

importer, if so requests, shall be informed by the officer in writing of the grounds for

such doubt and be afforded an opportunity to be heard.

(c) The officer of customs may thereafter proceed to determine the customs value in

accordance with the other provisions of Schedule E and amend the value as appropriate.

The said section 52 reads thus:

If upon examination of the goods so entered it shall appear to the officers of the

customs that the same are not valued according to the true value thereof, it shall be lawful for

such officers to detain such goods, and within two days from the day on which such goods shall

be finally examined for duty by the proper officers to take such goods for the use of the

Republic; and the Collector shall, from the daily collection of the port, or by an advance from

the Treasury, cause the amount of such valuation, together with the duties paid upon such

goods, to be paid to the importer or proprietor of such goods in full satisfaction for the same,

and shall dispose of such goods for the benefit of the Republic, and if the proceeds of such sale

shall exceed the sums so paid and all charges incurred by the Republic, such surplus shall be

deemed to be a forfeiture and disposed of as provided for in section 153.

Petitioner refer to the case of Fonterra Brands Lanka (Private) Ltd.Vs

Director General of Customs & Another 2008 BLR 346 CA 801/07.

"If there are two statutory provisions in a statute which are capable of two different meanings

and one provision leads to enormous inconvenience and another provision does not the one

which leads to least inconvenience to be preferred"

f, r

I! II!I!I

\

I

~ I

f

!

10

lilt is a well recognized rule that in a statute imposing a pecuniary burden, if there is a

reasonable doubt with regard to the construction of any burdensome provision, the

construction most beneficial to the subject is to be adopted./I

It is emphasized that in terms of Section 51A (1) (b) if doubts are

entertained by the Customs Officers as to the declaration made, reasons need to

be provided for the said doubt. In the instant case the Respondents have not

complied with the above and refused to give reasons but have proceeded to seize

the Petitioner's goods under Section 125 of the Customs Ordinance. Petitioner

argues that the applicable section is Section 51A and not Section 52. Petitioner

states that if the value declared is not appropriate the Customs Officer could

amend the value (under Article iE' as provided in Section 51(A)(2) of the Act). In

the event of undervaluation there is no provision for a forfeiture of goods by

operation of law. (Toyota Lanka Case S.C 49/2008 S.C minutes 30.6.2008).

I have noted with much interest that Article 8(1)(c) of Schedule iE' of

the statute, there shall be added to the price paid or payable for the imported

goods, Royalties and license fees related to goods valued. The Buyer has to pay

directly or indirectly. Respondents argue that Royalty and licence fees need to be

reflected in R6 (value declaration form); Petitioner declares a inil' declaration for

Royalties and license fees. On P10 agreement Petitioner has agreed to pay Royalty

11

for the Trade name and turnover of goods. Royalties is a condition of the sale of

goods as stated in the Agreement and this court is inclined to agree with the

learned D.S.G that the subject matter attracts royalty payments. To add to this

some very important facts have surfaced in the material referred to in paragraph

10 of the Respondents' objections which are supported by documents R1 to R7.

This gives the impression of an irregular practice adopted by the Petitioner

Company and the Respondents are well within their powers to disclose same

(supported by documents) and act in terms of the Customs Ordinance and it is not

for the Petitioner to choose the Section and demonstrate to court that the

\

Customs Department should act under this Section and not this. Where revenue

and duty payable is concerned it is for the authorities concerned to take the

I required steps in terms of the available laws. This is not a matter of surmise.

~

It is noted that Section 51 of the Customs Ordinance has had several

Sub sections apart from Section 51 itself. Section 51 requires the submissions of

value declaration form. The customs Department according to the scheme of the

Statute, if in doubt could seek clarification in different circumstances. Section 51A

contemplates when in doubt as to the accuracy of information, and steps could

be taken to amend the values (before or after UDF)/ Section 51A{1}{aL if in doubt

further information could be called. Section 51A {l{bL If the doubt continues

• 12

importer should be informed in writing and an opportunity to be heard. Section

51A{1) {c} Customs Department after inquiry amend the value. Section 51A {b}

provides an appeal to the Director General of Customs. Section 51A{7} goods to

be released on security pending investigation unless fraud is apparent.

It would not be possible to interpret or explain every aspeet of

valuation, but in the instant case this court gets the impression that the Petitioner

Company had been given all opportunities to explain, but the material that

surfaced in paragraph 10 of the objections {not properly explained by Petitioner}

of the Respondent are more than sufficient to conclude that it is an irregular

practice adopted on the part of the Petitioner and thereby Petitioners' conduct

would be unmeritorious. In these circumstances this court should not extend the

writ jurisdiction in favour of the Petitioner Company.

However having considered the case of each party, the main relief

sought in this Writ Application, after so many years and in view of the interim

relief granted by this court on or about 28th January 2008, the entire consignment

had been released to the Petitioner Company on a bank guarantee. As such on

one hand it remains only an academic question. On the other hand it is a futile

exercise having regard to all the fact and circumstances of this case. Certiorari will

not be issued to quash a particular exercise of powers if it be futile to do so

I( I

t f f

It t

~ If

13

because it is no more operational or it has had its effect. A writ will not issue

where it would be vexatious or futile (1958) 61 NlR 491, 496. The court will have

regard to the special circumstances of the case before it, issue a Writ of

Certiorari. The Writ of Certiorari clearly will not issue where the end result will be

futility, frustration, injustice and illegality. Marsoof J. in Ratnasiri Vs. Ellawala

(2004) 2 SlR 180; 208, Marsoof J. followed Soza J.'s word cited Pg. 90 Citing H. W.

R. Wade Administrative Law 5th Ed. Pg. 546-591 Even Mandamus had been

refused by courts on many occasions based on futility.

I do agree with leaned Deputy Solicitor General that even Writ of

Prohibition cannot be issued in the absence of a clear, understandable prayer. No

doubt the prayer as regards the Writ of Prohibition is worded in its widest form.

This should not prevent a proper customs inquiry or an investigation. As such this

court is not inclined to grant the substantial remedy of Certiorari/Prohibition and

Mandamus. As such we reject such relief and dismiss the application for the writs

prayed for by the Petitioner Company.

It must be noted that certiorari is a discretionary remedy and this

court has the power to withhold it if it thinks fit. This court will do so in the case

of an unmeritorious Petitioner, even though there has been a clear violation of

I,

f i

t I

~ , I I

f f I

I

14

1 natural justice -Wade Administrative Law 4th Ed. Pg. 455; L. H. de Alwis J.

Wickremasinghe Vs. Ceylon Electricity Board 1982 (2) SLR 607; 613.

In all the above facts and circumstances this court is not inclined to

grant the relief prayed for. As such we dismiss this application with costs.

Application dismissed.

H.N.J. Perera J.

I agree.

I I I ! I t ,

\ (

, i ! I

f

\

!

~ i f ! f , II I

I