==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA Appeal No.113/98(F) D.C.Colombo Case No.8424/RE

Mrs. Nurul Misiriya Sareek No: 23, Dematagoda Vidyala Road, Colombo 10.

Appellant Vs. Ranathunga Arachchige Asilin Nona No: 163/2, Jayantha Weerasekara Mawatha, Colombo 10.

Respondent

C.A.Appeal No.113/98(F)

Before

Counsel

Argued & Decided on

CHITRASIRI,J.

1

D.C.Colombo Case No.84241RE

K.T.CHITRASIRI,J

Ms.Sajeevi Siriwardena for the Plaintiff-Appellant.

Vidura Guneratne for the Defendant-Respondent.

18.03.2013

Learned Counsel for the plaintiff-appellant made submissions in support of

this appeal. This is an appeal seeking to set aside the judgment delivered on

19.12.1987 which is undated. By that judgment learned District Judge of

Colombo dismissed the plaint of the plaintiff with costs.

The Plaint dated 07.04.1985 filed by the plaintiff is for him to obtain

possession of the premises referred to in the schedule to the plaint on the basis of

subletting. At the commencement of the trial, it was admitted that the provisions

contained in the Rent Act No.7 of 1972 is applicable to this action. Tenancy ofthe

1st defendant to the premises in suit also had been admitted. Issues of the plaintiff

were raised to establish whether the 1st defendant had made structural changes to

the premises in suit and also to establish whether a part of the premises was sublet

to the 2"d defendant by the 1st defendant after the said structural changes were

made to the premises in suit. The 1st defendant had taken up the position that the

2

plaintiff has not disclosed a cause of action against her. Issue No.9 had been

raised on her behalf accordingly.

Even though the plaintiff had called number of witnesses to establish

making of structural changes to the premises and subletting by the 1st defendant,

the learned District Judge had basically relied upon the maintainability of the

action probably on the basis of non-disclosure of a cause of action against the 1st

defendant. Finally he has decided to dismiss the action.

This action was filed on the basis of subletting the premises in suit to the

2"d defendant by the 1st defendant. However, the basis on which the notice marked

1 VI in evidence, sent to the 1st defendant requesting her to hand over the

possession of the premises in suit to the plaintiff is different to the cause of action

disclosed in the plaint. The reasons mentioned in the said notice are the non-

payment of rent and reasonable requirement of the plaintiff. The learned District

Judge acting upon the difference between the reasons mentioned in the quit notice

and the basis for the filing of the action had decided to dismiss this action.

Learned Counsel for the appellant concedes that the quit notice marked

1 Vl had been sent on the basis of arrears of rent and for reasonable requirement

of the plaintiff. She further concedes that this action had been filed on the basis

of subletting and not on the grounds referred to in the quit notice. Therefore, it is

3

clear that the notice sent to the 1st defendant, in order to inform the reasons for

filing action is different to the basis on which this action was filed.

Therefore, it is clear that no notice had been given to the 1st defendant-

respondent informing her, intended cause of action before filing this case. Indeed,

it is necessary to terminate the contract of tenancy before filing action in order to

evict a tenant having given the reasons therefore. In this instance, no notice

terminating the contract of tenancy had been given. The notice that had been sent

is on a basis different to the basis on which the action had been filed. Therefore, no

cause of action could arise without terminating the contract of tenancy on the basis

of subletting upon which this action had been instituted.

In the circumstances, it is my opinion that the learned District Judge is

correct when he dismissed the action having answered the 1st defendant's issue

No.9 in her favour.

For the aforesaid reasons, I am not inclined to interfere with the findings of

the learned District Judge. Accordingly, this appeal is dismissed with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL