==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 43/2009 (Writ)

Edman Don Siyambalapitiya

No. 523/49, Suwasetha Weda Medura

2nd Stage, Anuradhapura.

And now known as

Anuradhapura Buddawansa Thero

Sri Sunandarama Pi riven Viharaya

Madagama, Gampaha.

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. Gamaarachchige Baby Nona Samarasekera

2. Duwage Somalatha

3. Duwage Nissanka Perera

All of No. 445/1, Maithreepala Senanayake

Mawatha, Anuradhapura.

4. The Divisional Secretary

Divisional Secretariat

Nuwaragama Palath East

Anuradhapura/

5. Provincial Land Commissioner

Office of the Provincial Land Commissioner

Anuradhapura.

1 !I,

r;

i

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERATNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J. &

6. The Land Commissioner

Gregory's Road,

Colombo 7.

RESPONDENTS

Deepali Wijesundera J.

S.N. Vijithsing for the Petitioner

Dr. Sunil Cooray P.e. for 1st - 3rd Respondents

Sobitha Rajakaruna D.S.G for 4th - 6th Respondents

06.03.2014

10.07.2014

2

The Petitioner who is now known as Anuradhapura Buddhawansa

There has sought a Writ of Certiorari to quash the decision of the 4th

Respondent marked and produced as Y5 dated 9.6.2008, and a Writ of

!

~

f

fri iI!I

tI I

3

Mandamus on the 4th Respondent to hold a proper inquiry. In the body of the

petition and as submitted to this court by learned counsel for the Petitioner,

action was instituted in the District Court of Anuradhapura by the Petitioner

seeking a declaration of title to the land described in para 5 of the petition as

521/120 Maithripala Senanayake Mawatha on the basis that the land in

dispute was given to him by the state (it appears that the Petitioner has not

made the official Respondents in this application parties in the D.C case). In

this application the Petitioner does not seem to have annexed the documents

required to be annexed as per rules of court.

The Petitioner without annexing proper acceptable documents plead,

that in the District Court plaint, land in dispute described therein was given to

the Petitioner by writing of 15.5.1990 in lieu of industrial land described as

562/133. Petitioner claims to have obtained a development permit from the

Urban Council, Anuradhapura. The father of 1st to 3rd Respondents illegally

entered the land and disputed Petitioner's rights. On that basis Petitioner had

prayed for a declaration of title. In the Petition of Petitioner (unnecessarily

prolix) had pleaded the pOSition of the 1st

-3rd Respondents in the District

Court case. It is

4

also stated in para 8 of the petition that land No. 521/120 as described above

is granted in lieu of land 562/133. (no acceptable documents submitted to

prove same) and authority given for 562/133 cancelled (T2) As such Petitioner

handed over 562/133 and the Land Commissioner gave the land in dispute

(Y3). Inter alia it is pleaded that the District Court delivered judgment in favour

of the Petitioner. Although it was an action for a declaration of title in the

District Court judgment delivered as above gave only lease hold rights to the

Petitioner.

The Substituted Respondent appealed from the District Court

judgment to the Court of Appeal and the Court of Appeal held in favour of 1st _

3rd Respondents. Petitioner appealed to the Supreme Court and in the

Supreme Court parties agreed (other than the official Respondents who were

never made parties to any suit filed by the Petitioner from the District Court,

Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court) to refer the matter to the Divisional

Secretary of Anuradhapura according to the order of 31.6.2007 (X & X5).

Thereafter only the complaint of the Petitioner surfaced against the

Divisional Secretary. As pleaded in paras 19 -23 of the petition it is urged.

5

(1) On 22.8.2007 the Petitioner called upon the office of the Divisional

Secretary with documentations, evidence and witnesses. But the Divisional

Secretary only requested to hand over the documents. (Petitioner had only

11 documents on that date 1st - 3rd Respondents did not hand over any

documents).

(2) No further inquiry or query for a long period.

(3) No proper inquiry held (Y3)

(4) Since about 1 ~ years lapsed a motion filed in the District Court and the

District Judge directed the Divisional Secretary to take steps as per

Supreme Court Order.

(5) Without a proper inquiry the Divisional Secretary made a declaration (Y5)

of 9.6.2005.

(6) Order challenged by Petitioner as in para 23 of the Petition. It is also

pleaded that the declaration of the Divisional Secretary is null and void as

per para 26 of the petition.

The 1st - 3rd Respondents in their objections take the following

position. I will initially refer to certain disputed facts highlighted by the said

Respondents.

(a) The original debt in the District Court case along with these Respondents possessed the

subject matter from 1958, onwards. Petitioner attempted to dispute their possession in

1999.

(b) Petitioner is making false statements. No dispensary built by the Petitioner.

(c) Petitioner as well as the other Respondents appeared before the 4th Respondent for an

inquiry on the date mentioned by Petitioner. The 4th Respondent inquired into the

f \

t!!,

fIrIi

[tIIiI,

t t I

1

Ii I! ! I

6

matter and perused all documents. Inquiry held for about 1 ~ hours. Both parties

handed over documents to Divisional Secretary.

(d) Petitioner is misleading court with false statements as in para 19 of the petition.

These Respondents further plead the following, and urge that the

Writ application should be dismissed in limine.

(a) There was no statutory duty cast upon the 4th Respondent Divisional Secretary and

hence there exists no statutory flavor visible in the decision of the Divisional Secretary

which would warrant a writ to be issued quashing the decision of the 4th Respondent

and compelling the 4th Respondent to hold a proper inquiry;

(b) The Petitioner have failed to file originals or certified copies in regards to several of the

documents produced.

(c) The Petitioner have failed to aver exceptional circumstances which would warrant the

exercise of the writ jurisdiction.

(d) The application of the Petitioner is belated and the reasons given by the Petitioner for

the delay is not genuine and furthermore unacceptable and hence should not be

entertained.

(e) The Petitioner has also suppressed or misrepresented facts.

(f) The Petitioner's application is vexatious and/or misconceived in law

Having perused the objections of the 4th - 6th Respondents the

following important positions are noted.

(a) The documents marked as 'Yl' is not in the file of the 4th Respondent

(b) The contents in the said document marked as 'Yl' is contradictory and the format of the

insertion of the date, the address of the Petitioner more specifically the signature of the

Petitioner in the said documents marked as 'Yl' is very much different to the contents,

the format of the insertion of the date and the address of the Petitioner and the

t IIIr

lt,I!!

I

i!,,

tIIII Itt

t

f i I t tI!i I I

~ K f 1l f

7

signature of the Petitioner contained in the three letters submitted by the Petitioner in

the years 1973, 1975 and 1976 and therefore the said document marked as 'Yl' is an

incorrect and false documents.

(c) The 5th Respondent does not maintain any file relating to this matter.

It is also pleaded that document Y2 is not in the file of the 4th

Respondent. As above (re - Yi) Respondent plead that Y2 is an incorrect false

document. Further the Sth Respondent doe not maintain a file relating to this

matter. R4, RS & R6 produced, accordingly. There is also no proof to show that

the Petitioner developed the land concerned.

Even as regards document Y3B these Respondents reject that

document, on the basis of it being false.

This court observes that the manner in which documents are

produced along with the petition by the Petitioner had been done in a

haphazard manner. By producing XS the Petitioner attempt to cover the

entirety of the documents produced and expect the court to dissect and

identify documents. (it is not properly produced and marked) Above all the

official Respondents reject some of the documents produced by the Petitioner

who relies on same, to be false, misleading documents. This court has been

invited to certain areas of the dispute and the Respondents argue same to be

disputed question. This court does not wish to inquire into all those disputed

8

questions. Review procedure is not well suited to meet such positions. On this

ground alone this application is rejected. Only if major facts are not in dispute

and the legal result of the facts are not subject to controversy. Vide Thajudeen

Vs. Sri Lanka Tea Board and Another (1981) 2 SLR 471 (P1 also see S.c. Appeal

59/2008).

This court is satisfied that the 4th Respondent held a proper inquiry

on 22.8.2007, where all parties were afforded an opportunity to present

documents, and all of them handed over photocopies of all sets of documents

to the 4th Respondent. All parties willingly signed a register (R7). I reject the

contention of the Petitioner that no proper inquiry was held. Nor does this

court wish to interfere with report Y5 which comprehensively deal with the

problem. I do accept the position that the land in dispute is state land and

absolutely vested in the state. The Petitioner or the 1st - 3

rd Respondents were

never issued with permits/grants for same. However 1st - 3rd Respondents are

in occupation of same. Petitioner is not given any authority by the official

Respondents to occupy the subject matter of this application. In the District

Court case which ultimately went up to the Supreme Court, the official

Respondents were never made parties at any stage. Further the Supreme

Court has not set aside the judgment of the Court of Appeal.

9

The Petitioner's application is vexatious and misconceived in law. 4th

Respondent had acted bona fide at all times. There is a grave

misrepresentation of facts by the Petitioner. i.e tending false and unacceptable

documents. I am fully convinced of the argument of learned Deputy Solicitor

General that the Petitioner has abused the judicial process by resorting to the

writ jurisdiction of this court. It is noted that the appeal procedure from the

District Court to the Supreme Court gave the Petitioner a right to enjoy the

appeal process, prescribed by law. The Supreme Court did not proceed to set

aside the judgment of the Court of Appeal. Petitioner had based on an order of

the Supreme Court which did not pronounce a final judgment, took advantage

of the procedure to file a Writ Application with false misleading documents

and statements. Our attention is drawn to the following decided case. The

Merchant Bank of Sri Lanka Vs. Jatila Punyasiri Wijewardena and Others s.c.

Appeal 81/2010; decided on 15.2.2012 .

..... This would give the party in such circumstances two opportunities of review of the

preliminary Judgment when the clear intention of the legislature is that there should be

only an appeal to the Supreme Court from any judgment or order of the High Court in

the exercise of Civil Jurisdiction in terms of section 5(1) and 5(2).

rf

i If [

1.

10

In all the above facts and circumstances we proceed to dismiss this

application with costs.

Application dismissed with costs.

615G~~'l.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Deepali Wijesundera J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF

I1I

! I

1I

fI ~ i i ,,,! ! I

fJ!