==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 559 I 97 F

D.C. Avissawella No. 201/ L

Meegahawatta Muhandiramlage Mohomad Junaid Mohomad Siddik, Moragala, Ehaliyagoda.

Plaintiff

Vs.

1. Deni W eerakoon Ratnayake, 2. D.D. Kusuma Gunasekera, Moragala, Eheliyagoda.

Defendant

AND

Meegahawatta Muhandiramlage Mohomad Junaid Mohomad Siddik, Moragala, Ehaliyagoda.

Plaintiff Petitioner

1. Deni W eerakoon Ratnayake, 2. D.D. Kusuma Gunasekera, Moragala, Eheliyagoda.

Defendant Respondent

AND NOW BETWEEN

BEFORE

COUNSELS

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE J.

2

Meegahawatta Muhandiramlage Mohomad Junaid Mohomad Siddik, Moragala, Ehaliyagoda.

Plaintiff Petitioner Appellant

Vs.

1. Deni W eerakoon Ratnayake, 2. D.D. Kusuma Gunasekera, Moragala, Eheliyagoda.

Defendant Respondent-Respondent

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

T. Waragoda for the Plaintiff Petitioner Appellant

S.A.D.S. Suraweera for the Defendant

Respondent-Respondent

27.06.2012

05.07.2013

The Plaintiff Petitioner Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the

Appellant) instituted the said action against the Defendant Respondent-Respondent

(hereinafter referred to as the Respondent) in the District Court of Avissawella

praying for a declaration of title to the land described in the schedule to the plaint.

On the trial date the Appellant was absent in Court. Since there had

been no application on behalf of the Appellant the learned trial Judge had

3

dismissed the action of the Appellant. Thereafter the Appellant had made an

application to vacate the said order of dismissal of the action. The Respondent had

filed her statement of objection to the said application. The learned District judge

has dismissed the said Application of the Appellant on the basis that the Appellant

has failed to explain the delay in filing the Application to vacate the Ex Parte

decree. Being aggrieved by the said order dated 27.03.1997 the Appellant has

appealed to this Court.

It is apparent from the case record that the case had been taken up for

trial on 04.04.1995 and the Appellant was absent and unrepresented on that date.

Accordingly the learned District Judge has dismissed the Appellant's action with

costs. Thereafter the Appellant has made an application by way of petition

supported with an affidavit dated 04.09.1995 seeking to purge the default and to

vacate the said ex-parte order of dismissal of his action. It is apparent from the date

of petition and the Affidavit that the said Application to purge default has been

made more than 05 months after the order of dismissal.

It must be noted that the Appellant in his petition and affidavit has not

explained the delay in coming to court. The Appellant has totally ignored to

explain the delay. Even at the hearing of this Appeal the Appellant did not explain

the delay in coming to Court. Subsection (3) of Section 87 read thus;

87(3) The plaintiff may apply within a reasonable time from the date of

dismissal, by way of petition supported by affidavit, to have the

dismissal set aside, and if on the hearing of such application, of which

the defendant shall be given notice, the court is satisfied that there

were reasonable grounds for the non-appearance of the plaintiff, the

court shall make order setting aside the dismissal upon such terms as

4

to costs or otherwise as it thinks fit, and shall appoint a day for

proceeding with the action as from the stage at which the dismissal for

default was made.

According to Subsection (3) the Appellant must satisfy Court mainly

on two grounds. Firstly; the application has been made within a reasonable time

from the date of dismissal and secondly; there are reasonable grounds for the non-

appearance of the plaintiff.

Therefore the Appellant's evidence should be considered within the

framework set out in Subsection (3) of Section 87. The Appellant in his evidence

has testified that he had a fall on 02.04.1995 and he had been under medical

treatments and he was unable to walk for ten days. Peruwalpedi Liyanage, the

Native Doctor, who treated the appellant, in his evidence, has testified that the

Appellant could not walk for 6 to 7 days and he was treated for two weeks. It

seems that after two weeks from 02.04.1995 the Appellant has recovered from his

ailment. The Appellant in his evidence has admitted that he was aware that the case

had been fixed for trial on 04.04.1995.

When I consider the said evidence it appears to me that the Appellant

has failed to come to Court within a reasonable time as stipulated in Subsection (3)

of Section 87. There are lashes on the part of the Appellant. The Appellant has

slept over his rights for more than 05 months.

Hence I dismiss the Appeal of the Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal