==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A (PHC) No. 176/08 P.H.C.Colombo No.114/08 M.C. Nugegoda No.9838

W. Saman Danarathna No: 301/2, Parakum Mawatha, Dehiwala Road, Maharagama.

Respondent- Petitioner Vs. Secretory Provincial Secretory office, Maharagama.

Complainant-respondent

C.A.(PHC)No.176/08

Before

Counsel

Argued and

Decided on

K. T . CHITRASIRI,J .

Rev~p1. H.C.Colombo No.114/08

M.C. Nugegoda No.9838

K.T. CHITRASIRI, J. &

W.M.M.MALINIF GU'JARATNE, J.

Appellant is absent and unrepresented.

Suranga Wimalasena SSC for the Applicant-Respondent.

22.07.2014

Notice sent to the Respondent-Petitioner-Appellant by the Registrar of

this Court, directing him to appear in this Court, had been returned with the

endorsement that no house is found at the address given in the said notice and

that the house that was there had been demolished. It is the address given in

the petition of appeal as the address of the appellant. Hence, this Court has no

option than to take up this appeal in his absence. Accordingly, this appeal is

taken up for consideration in the absence of the appellant.

This appeal had been preferred seeking to set aside the orders dated

03/02/2010 and 11/07 /2008 made respectively by the learned High Court

Judge and the learned Magistrate. Learned High Court Judge has affirmed the

order of the learned Magistrate dated 11/07 /2008 by which an application by

1

the respondent to have the appellant evicted from the premises in dispute had

been allowed. The said application by the respondent which is dated

27/02/2008 to the Magistrate had been made in terms of the provisions

contained in the State Land Recovery of Possession Act No.17 of 1979 as

amended, in order to have the appellant evicted from the land referred to in the

schedule to the application filed in the Magistrate's Court. Learned Magistrate

having considered the circumstances of the case has decided that the appellant

has failed to produce a valid permit or written authority issued by the

Government to possess or occupy the premises in suit since it is a land

belonging to the State.

The law in this connection had been clearly stated in many ,r-decisions

including that of the following. In the case of Aravindakumar v. Alwis and

others, [2007] 1 S.L.R. 317, it was held thus:

"Any person served with a quit notice under Section 3 can

continue to be in possession/ occupation of the land only upon a

valid permit or other written aWhority of the State described in

Section 9."

In the case of Muhandiram v. Chai.rman, No.111, Janatha Estate

Development Board [1992] 1 S.L.R. 110 it was held thus:

((The onus is on the person summoned to establish his

possession or occupation that it is possessed or occupied upon

a valid permit or other written authority of the State granted

2.

according to any written law. If this burden is not discharged,

the only option to the Magistrate is to order ejectment. "

In view of the authorities referred to above, a person can only be allowed

to possess or occupy a State land, only if he j she possesses a valid permit or

written authority issued by the Government to remain so. In this instance, the

appellant has failed to produce such a permit or any written authority to be in

possessionj occupation of the land referred to in the schedule to the application

made to the Magistrate's Court in this case which bears the No.9838.

Accordingly, we do not see any reason to interfere with the decision of

the learned Magistrate and of the learned high Court Judge.

For the aforesaid reasons this appeal is dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE; OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M.MALINIE GUNARATNE,J.

I agree. M.

JUDGE OF THI!: COURT OF APPEAL

WCj-

3