==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A 102111998 (F) D.C. Anuradhapura 16824/M

People's Bank No. 75, Srimath Chiththampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo.

PLAINTIFF

Vs.

1. W. A. Piyasena, Govi Sampatha Thambuththegama.

2. J. H. M. Sunil Herath "Sunil", No. 119, Bendi Wewa, Thambuththegama.

3. B. A. Sunil "Sunil Motors", Industrial Place, Thambuththegama.

DEFENDANTS

AND NOW BETWEEN

1. W. A. Piyasena, Govi Sampatha Thambuththegama.

1 ST DEFENDANT -APPELLANT

Vs.

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

2.

3.

Anil Gooneratne J.

People's Bank No. 75, Srimath Chiththampalam B. Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo.

PLAINTIFF-RESPONDENT

J. H. M. Sunil Herath "Sunil", No. 119, Bendi Wewa, Thambuththegama.

B. A. Sunil "Sunil Motors", Industrial Place, Thambuththegama.

DEFENDANTS-RESPONDENTS

E. M. D. Upali with S. Wijayalath for

1 st Defendant-Appellant

R. Dissanayake instructed by C. Induruwa for Plaintiff-Respondents

09.07.2012

27.08.2012

2

Ii

3

GOONERATNE J.

This was an action filed in the District Court of Anuradhapura

under the provisions of the Debt Recovery Law No. 2 of 1990 as amended

by Act No.9 of 1994. The Plaintiff-Respondent is the People's Bank. The 1 st

Defendant-Appellant is the Principle Debtor and the 2

nd and 3

rd Defendants

are guarantors (P5) to the loan application. The 1 st Defendant-Appellant was

also having a Current Account bearing No. 1315 at the Thambuththegama

branch of the People's Bank. On or about 2nd April 1997 the 1st Defendant-

Appellant had applied for a loan from the Plaintiff-Respondent Bank in a

sum of Rs. 16,50,0001=. The application is marked P2 annexed to the plaint.

In the plaint filed of record it is also pleaded that promissory note P3 was

also executed to secure the loan. Loan had been granted and having given

credit to the amounts repaid by the 1 st Defendant-Appellant the prayer to the

plaint shows that a sum of Rs. 1,306,5001- with interest is due to the

P laintiff-Respondent.

The proceedings of 19.8.l998 indicates that the Plaintiff-

Respondent application under the Debt Recovery Law was supported on the

said date and decree nisi was entered on the same date. At the hearing before

this Court the Appellant's position was that the trial Judge has erred by not

i !I

iI

[![tIf i Ii Ii

I'

4

granting him leave to proceed as required by the provisions of the Debt

recovery Law. (Section 6 of the Law more particularly 6 (2) (c)) The learned

Counsel for appellant argued that:

(1) A loan was obtained by his client from the Plaintiff Bank. On the amount

received by way of a loan his client purchased paddy and stored it. The gist of the

argument suggest that the stores in question had been locked by the officials of

the People's Bank and as a result of delay in giving access to the stores the paddy

stored as above had got spoilt. The position demonstrated to court seems to be

reflected in paragraphs 17, 18, 19,20 & 21 of the objections of 3.9.1998 of the 1 st

Respondent. As such order 'Nisi" should be vacated.

(2) The affidavit filed in the District court by the People's Bank is defective and in

law cannot be acted upon such affidavit. i.e Plaintiff is not a deponent. It is the

People's Bank who is the Plaintiff, contrary to Section 183 A of the Civil

Procedure Code.

Perusal of all the material and proceedings in the Original Court

indicates that the 2nd & 3 rd Defendants who were the guarantors had no

objection for 'Decree Nisi' being made absolute". I have perused the order

of the learned trial Judge who has considered the position of the 1 st

Defendant-Appellant in the Original Court. Having considered the

objections of the 1 st Defendant-Appellant the trial Judge very correctly

observes that a loan was granted by the Plaintiff-Respondent according to

the over draft facility to store paddy (column 14 of P2 OlD). in that no

inference could be drawn to give any concessions or relief not to pay the

5

default sum. As such objection on the lines suggested by Appellant cannot

have a direct bearing on his liability to repay. Further the trial Judge takes

the view that the objection relate to the question of stocks in the stores and

not directly connected to the loan obtained. I would incorporate the

following extract from the order of the learned District Judge which indicate

that the trial Judge has given his mind to the provisions of the law.

OC) (f®mo~ E)®oJ(Jm) ®@Q @~aam tm@ oo~~ ®~Q Q)~@®®~~ e>E.055 emoo ®CS)~ SO®C) @ID~®c) oo® Qt®(S)ei) oo~~ ®ei»~ei) Q)~ ®a®55. ®C)

(f®mO~ 1 ~ei) E)m6)oo~ E)S55 ®®® ~~@ ®CS)~ei) Q)~C) ®(S)J ~~@ m~~m

00 emmO ®CS)~ SO®C) ~(6) Q)~C) (fwoormc.o @~a®aS @@@®~ 00

ei)~m. ®® (f~~ E)®oJ(Jm) Q6)®~ oo®.

This court observes that 'Debt' as defined in Section 30 of the

Debt Recovery Law is given a very wide meaning which is a sum of money

ascertainable and capable of being ascertained at the time of institution of

the action. The loan granted is not denied, by the Appellant. A Debtor under

the said law is bound to resort to the provisions of the law and cannot

deviate from the provisions contained therein to contest the position of a

lending Institution as regards a debt. The 1 st Defendant-Appellant has not

disclosed in the pleadings filed in the Original Court a defence which should

be prima facie sustainable. As a rule in terms of the above statute leave is

granted unconditionally, only if a prima facie case is established or triable

6

Issue suggested. Plaintiff-Respondent claim had not been dealt by the

Appellant on it's merits and as required by law.

In Ramanayake V s. Sampath Bank Ltd. and others 1993 (1) SLR at pg.

153 ...

Per Wijeyaratne J.

The principles applicable to the granting of leave to defend or to show cause

under the two procedures are somewhat similar. However section 6(2)( c) of the

Act expressly provides for the affidavit of the defendant to deal specifically with

the plaintiff s claim and his defence thereto and what facts are being relied on in

support thereof. The defendant has to deal with the plaintiff s claim on its merits;

it is not competent for the defendant to merely set out technical objections. It is

also incumbent on the defendant to reveal his defence, ifhe has any.

Then the important question arises as to what is meant by the word "an issue or

question which ought to be tried".

I am of the view that they mean nothing more than a plausible defence with a

triable issue; that is to sayan issue which cannot be summarily disposed of on the

affidavits, but requires investigation and trial. For this purpose the defendant is

bound under section 6(2)( c) to deal specifically with the plaintiffs claim on its

merits and his defence thereto and what facts are relied on as supporting such

defence. Hence the court is in an advantageous position to examine the

defendant's affidavit and any other material to find out whether a plausible

defence with a triable issue is disclosed, in which event leave may be granted

unconditionally under section 6(2) (c ). On the other hand mere technical

objections and evasive denials will not suffice".

II,

!I

~ tII:,

7

People's Bank v. Lanka Queen INT'L Private Limited. 1999 (1) SLR - Pg. 233 ...

The learned Additional District Judge allowed the defendants to appear and show cause

against the Decree Nisi entered in terms of section 6 (2) of Act No.2 of 1990 as amended

by No.4 of 1994. The defendant-respondent did not file an application for leave to

appear and show cause

Held:

1. Act No.2 of 1990 was amended by Act No.4 of 1994. S. 6(2) of the original Act

was repealed and the word' Application' which appeared in the original section

has been qualified with the following words:

"Upon the filing of an application for leave to appear and show cause supported

by affidavit." Thus it is mandatory for the defendant to file an application for

leave to appear and show cause, further such application must be supported by an

affidavit which should deal specifically with the plaintiffs claim and state clearly

and concisely what the defence to the claim is and what facts are relied upon to

support it.

2. Amended S. 6(2) does not permit unconditional leave to defend the claim, the

minimum requirement according to S. 6 (2) C is for the furnishing of security.

Per De Silva, J.

"In the absence of an application to show cause in writing, it is possible to say

that there is no proper application supported by an affidavit before court."

8

The dicta in the above cases provides acceptable answers to

meet the case of the Appellant, and I could confidently observe that there is

no merit in this appeal.

The other submission of learned counsel for 1 st Defendant-

Appellant was that the affidavit filed by the Bank along with the plaint was

defective. In Sooriya Enterprises International V s. Michael White & Co.

Ltd. 202 (3) SLR 371. Mark Fernando J. held substitution of an oath for an

affirmation or vice versa will not invalidate proceedings or set aside

evidence. The fundamental obligation of a witness or the deponent is to tell

the truth and the purpose of an oath or affirmation is to enforce that

obligation.

The Deponent is the Manger, People's Bank of the relevant

Branch Office. The Plaintiff is the People's Bank. Merely because the

deponent in the affidavit states that he is the deponent and the Plaintiff does

not mean that the deponent is unaware of the loan transaction. He is no

doubt the representative of the Plaintiff Bank, who could step into the shoes

of the Plaintiff in the context of this case. This court cannot permit

technicalities to take the truth away from the case and allow technical

objections to lend support to the Appellant in the way counsel urge. The oath

9

is correctly stated. The Bank Manger of the branch is more than competent

and qualified to testify to the facts of the case and the loan transaction. As

such I reject the contention of the appellant.

In all the circumstances of the case the learned District Judge

being satisfied with the material placed by the Plaintiff-Bank and having

examined all the documents annexed to the plaint has entered 'Decree Nisi'

according to the provisions of the Debt Recovery Law. The 1st Defendant-

Appellant was not successful in dealing with the Plaintiff Bank claim, and

present a plausible defence, in terms of the law. The matters urged by

Defendant-Appellant does not give any clue to contest the material

contained in documents PI to P5. Document P2 is the loan application which

does not suggest or leave room for the debtor to plead anyone or more of

the matters urged in paragraphs 4 to 22 of the affidavit and the

corresponding averments in his objection. There is no merit in this appeal. I

affirm all orders of the learned District Judge. Appeal dismissed without

costs.

Appeal dismissed.