==== BLOCKS ==== 

• IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REOUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Case No:CA PHC 235/2004

Section 154P(6) of the Constitution for read together with High Courts of the Provinces ( special provisions) Act

No. 19 of 1990.

D.R.Jayasundara, Sakarawatta, Kapuhempala.

Petitioner - Appellant

-Vs-

01. Assistant Commissioner of Galle.

02. Attorney General, Attorney General's Department.

RESPONDENT-RESPONDENT

Before : W.M.M.Malanie Gunarathne, J

: P.R.Walgama, J

Counsel :Appellant was absent and unrepresented,

Nayomi Kahawita, SC for the Respondent,

Argued on : 31.03.2015

Decided on: 23.06.2015

I

f t

, 1

\

! I!!I!I

I

r

t 1

1fI

It

CASE- NO- CA-(PHC)-235/2004- JUDGMENT- 23.06.2015

P.R.Walgama, J

The Defendant-Petitioner- Appellant (herein after sometimes called

and referred to as the Appellant) has lodged the instant appeal

and invited this Court, inter alia; for the vacation of the order of

the Learned Magistrate dated 25.09.2003, and the order of the

Learned High Court Judge, dated 20. 05.2004.

When this case was taken up for argument the Appellant was

absent and unrepresented, hence the Court heard only the

argument of the Counsel for the Respondent. Thereafter the Court

granted a date for the Respondent to file written submissions on

15.06.2015, and on the said date it was informed by the Counsel

for the Respondent that the appeal is not being challenge, as the

Learned Magistrate has failed to follow the proper procedure laid

down in Section 33 of the Agrarian Development Ad Nu.46 of

2000.

As per document marked P2 the Assistant Commissioner of

Agrarian Development Department filed an affidavit in terms of

Section 33 ( 4) for a restraining order against the Appellant who

has contravened the section 33(1) Agrarian Development Act No.

46 of 2000.

Section 33(1)

liN 0 person shall fill any extent of paddy land or remove any soil

from any extent of paddy land or erect any structure on any

extent of paddy land except with the written permission of the

Commissioner- General." t{

~

\

Section- 33(2)

"Any person who contravenes the provisions of Subsection (1) shall

be guilty of an offence under this Act."

"Pursuant to the

Magistrate acting

application made under Section

in terms of Section 33(5) shall

33(3), the

determine

whether an act has been committed in contravention of this

Section and upon arriving at such determination the Magistrate

shall make an interim order restraining the person named in the

application and his servants or agents from acting in

contravention of subsection (1) and shall forthwith issue summons

on the person or persons named in the application to appear

and show cause on the date specified in such 5Uil1iYi.0BS, ciS to

why such person/ persons should not be restrained, as prayed for

in the application."

33 (6)(a) if on the date specified in the summons the person to

whom such summons has been issued fails to appear or informs

the Court that he has no cause to show against the issuing of

such order the Court shall confirm the interim order.

Therefore it is abundantly clear as the Claimant- Respondent filed

the affidavit in terms of Section 33(4) the Magistrate's powers

are limited only to an issuance of a restraining order, if the

defendant fails to show cause, why a restr?ining ord~r shC'u!d

not be issued against him.

In the instant matter although the claimant has filed the

application seeking a restraining order to restrain the defendant and

his servant from filling the paddy field, the Learned Magistrate

has acted in terms of Section 32 (8) and has convicted the

1! !II

II

II ! I I

\

Defendant Appellant without a summery trial, on the basis that

the, Defendant -Appellant has failed to show cause. Pursuant to

the afore said the Learned Magistrate mo'/cd to CC~V!ct the

Appellant and imposed a fine of Rs. 2000/ and further made

order that the soil to be removed within three months from the

date thereof.

Hence it is crystal clear that the Learned Magistrate has followed

the improper procedure which calls for a annulment of the said

order. Being aggrieved by the said impugned order the Petitioner-

Appellant made an application by invoking the revisionary

jurisdiction of the Provincial High Court of Galle to have the said

order set aside or vacated.

The Learned High Court Judge by her order dated 20.05.2004

dismissed the Petitioner- Appellant's application on the basis that

no exceptional circumstances are averred by the Petitioner, to

warrant the exercise the extraordinary jurisdiction to revise the

said impugned order. Further more it is stated that the Petitioner-

Appellant could resolve the main matter in the Appeal. In the

above setting the Learned High Court Judge has dismissed the

Revision application accordingly.

The Petitioner- Appellant lodged the instant appeal to have the

said order set aside or be vacated, on the following grounds.

That the above dated order of the Learned High Court Judge is

illegal,

That the Learned High Court Judge has made the said impugned

order on the basis that the facts stated by the Appellant could be

I

r i [ I I1I I ! I l

resolved in the Appeal and in addition the Petitioner - Appellant

has not revealed any exceptional circumstances for the High

Court Judge to exercise the revisionary jurisdiction, in this matter.

Against the said order the Appellant lodged the instant appeal to

this Court, inter alia for the following reliefs;

To vacate the order of the Learned High Court Judge dated 20-

05-2004,

To vacate the order of the Learned Magistrate dated 25.09.2003.

As it was mentioned at the very outset the procedure which

was adopted by the Learned Magistrate was blatantly erroneous

and as such the said order is set aside accordingly.

The Learned High Court Judge by her order dated 20.05.2015, has

rejected the Petitioner- Appellant's application in revision on the

basis that the Petitioner has not averred aIiY exceptiunal

circumstances that warrants the High Court to exercise the

revisionary jurisdiction, and further had held that the matters that

were to be resolved in the revision application could be gone in

to in the appeal. But it is pertinent to note that in terms of

Section 33(9)(a)(1) an appeal will lie only against an order of

forfeiture, after a conviction for an offence committed under

subsection 2 of Section 33 of the said Act. Hence it is salient to

note that the Applicant instituted action against the Defendant by

filing an affidavit in terms of Section 33 ( 4) of the said Act and

moved only for a restraining order against the Defendant-

Appellant. The Learned Magistrate has resorttu to Lite procedwe

laid down in Section 32 of the said Act and had convicted the

Appellant and had imposed a fine. As per above act there is no

, l

right of Appeal available to the Appellant and it is apparent that

the Appellant had a right to come by way of an application in

revision, to the Provincial High Court.

As it was mentioned before the Learned Magistrate's order is ab

initio void, which has created a special circumstance to come by

way of revision to the High Court to have the impugned order of

the learned Magistrate set aside.

In Considering the above facts in its totality, and conceded by

the counsel for the Respondent, the Appeal is allowed, and the

impugned orders of the Learned Magistrate and the High Court

Judge is vacated here by.

Appeal is allowed accordingly.

JUDGE OF TIlE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M.Malanie Gunarathne, J

I agree,

JUDGE OF TIlE COURT OF APPEAL

i I!

I!l