==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DECMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Case No: CA 39/99(F) DC (Mathugama) Case No. 2492/P

Kuruppu Arachchige Ebraham Appuhamy C/0 Wimalasena, Godemandiya, Bulathsinghala. And Others.

Plaintiffs Vs. Dona Madurawathi Kuruppu Godemandiya, Bulathsinghala. And 19 Others

Defendants AND NOW BETWEEN Kuruppu Arachchige Ebraham Appuhamy C/0 Wimalasena, Godemandiya, Bulathsinghala.

Plaintiff – Appellant Weeragala Kalubowilage Don Piyatissa Gammadapitiya, Bulathsinghala. And 19 Others

Defendants-Respondents

C.A.39/99 (F)

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

1

D.C Matugama 2492/P

A.W.A Salam, J

Sanjeewa Ranaweera for the Plaintiff-Appellant.

Indunil Bandara for the 19th Defendant-Respondent.

06.02.2013.

********

A.W.A Salam J.

This is an appeal preferred by the 5th/ 14th (a) Defendant

Respondent against the judgment and Interlocutory decree

dated 11.12.1998 directing that the land depicted in plan "X"

(Plan No: 620 dated 09.08.1994 made by G. Adikaram) be

partitioned amongst the co-owners wh9 were declared entitled

to undivided shares.

The corpus IS said to have been depicted m the said

preliminary plan. The said plan "X" showed a land in extent of

3 Acres- 3 Roods and 1.4 perches whereas in the schedule to

the plaint and the lis pendens, the land has been described as

in extent of 4 Acres and 3 Roods. The difference in extent

iI!

iI

~

2

between the land described in the plaint and depicted in the

plan "X" is almost 158.6 perches. The surveyor in explaining the

discrepancy in the extent has stated that the substantial

reduction could be attributed to the village council road which

had come later into existence. However, as stated by the

surveyor, he has not given the extent of the village council

roads but roughly stated that the road in question may be in

extent of 35- 37 perches. Even if this statement is accepted as

correct, yet there is a difference of 3 Roods in extent that has

not been explained by the surveyor.

As a matter of fact, the 5th Defendant and the surveyor

have stated specifically that the land sought to be partitioned is

not the one described in the plaint. The latter has specifically

taken up the position that the land described in the plaint has

not been surveyed. Counsel for the appellant drew the attention

of court to a list of witness filed on behalf of the 5th Defendant in

which he has listed the Survey General's plan which depicts

the land in question as in extent of 4 Acres and 3 Roods.

The learned counsel for the 19th Defendant -Respondent

concedes that there has been a substantial discrepancy with

3

regard to the extent of the land and that this is a fit case to be

sent back for re-trial.

Relying on the judgment reported in 60 NLR page 337

(Brampi Appuhamy Vs. Menis Appuhamy), I am also of the view

that a substantial miscarriage of justice had taken place as a

result of the learned District Judge not paying due attention to

the reduction of the extent of the land, before he took up the

matter for trial. In the circumstances, the appeal preferred by

the 5th I 14(a) Defendant -Appellant is allowed and the

judgment and interlocutory decree are set aside with the

direction that the Learned District Judge takes appropriate steps

under the Partition Law to have the commission issued to the

Surveyor General to identify the land in the first instance and

then proceed to trial if necessary. There shall be no costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Vkg/-