==== BLOCKS ==== 

..

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Singharam Thiyagarajah

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

C.A.216/201O

H.C. Colombo B 1645/2006

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

P. R. Walgama J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDNET

Thilak Marapana P.c., with V.D. Jayasekera, A.K. Chandrakantha

and Chamith Marapana for the Accused-Appellant

Shamil Kularatne S.S.c. for the Complainant-Respondent

10.10.2014

1

1/

~

I

lI,!

2

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS

TENDERED ON: 12.11.2014

DECIDED ON: 27.11.2014

GOONERATNE J.

The Accused-Appellant was a Grama Sevaka and he was indicted

under two counts, as per the Bribery Act as Amended, for soliciting and

accepting a bribe of Rs, 10,000/- from one Mahendran in terms of Section

19(c) of the said Act during the period 1st August to 31st August 2003. He was

convicted after trial on or about 19.01.2010 and sentenced to 2 years rigorous

imprisonment, with a fine of Rs. 5000/- which carries a default sentence of 12

months rigorous imprisonment. On count No. (1) and on count No. (2) Trial

Court imposed the same sentence. Further a sum of Rs. 10,000/= was also

imposed in terms of Section 26 of the Bribery Act, which carries a default

sentence of 6 months rigorous imprisonment. Pending appeal the Accused-

Appellant was granted bail on 11.10.2010. (about 9 months after conviction

and sentence).

3

The case of the prosecution very briefly was that the complainant

named in the indictment had obtained a loan facility from the People's Bank

by way of an over draft in a sum of Rs. 100000/- and a loan for Rs. 300000/-.

The bank had moved the provision of the People's Bank Act, to proceed to

auction the house and property of the complaint which had been kept as

security for the above facility. The Accused-Appellant who was known to the

complainant, had solicited a bribe of Rs. 10,000/-, promising the complainant

that he would provide some relief to him by preventing or withholding the

alleged auction of the house and property. However no such promise had

been fulfilled by the Accused and as such the complainant had to obtain a loan

from another party with the assistance of his brother-in-law who was a

witness, and ultimately settle the loan with the bank. There is also material

provided by the prosecution that the amount of Rs. 10,000/- was obtained and

paid to the Accused from certain sums of money given by the complainant's

mother who broke a till to collect and pay the sum solicited.

The learned President's Counsel who appeared for the Accused-

Appellant relied on the test of probability, and invited this court to several

items of evidence. He referred to the evidence that transpired at pgs. 35, 37,

38, 39 & 42 of the brief. It refers to a conversation between the complainant

,

!t

~

I

I

4

and the Accused regarding the house and property kept as security and that it

is to be auctioned. Complainant having told the Accused-Appellant to help him

in this connection, Accused had requested for Rs. 10,000/- (ten thousand

mentioned in the English language - 35) to get the property released in 21

days. Then at pg. 37 it is stated that having given Rs. 10,000/- the complainant

took steps to get the property released. ®® ~CS>C5 CO CN6)®d fm@>. The

method used to get the property released transpired in evidence (37). It is

stated that a sum of Rupees Three Hundred Thousand was borrowed by his

brother-in-law (Rada Krishnan) from one 'Wasantha', and having obtained this

sum (Rs. 300,000/-) deposited the money on the same day. Having deposited

the said sum a question was posed to the complainant as to whether they

(m®a5@» went to the Nuwara Eliya People's Bank. The answer was as follows:

!

t,i ![,!

i

5

I would in a gist advert to the following matters since much emphasis

had been placed by learned President's Counsel on the question of

improbability of the prosecution version.

(a) The complaint was made aware of an auction by the Accused party.

Accused-Appellant made no effort to find out about the intended auction

sale and as to how the Accused-Appellant could stop the sale or help the

complainant

(b) No steps taken by complainant to verify from the Bank about their liability

or the auction procedure.

(c) Having parted with the sum solicited, no attempt made by the complainant

to ascertain the settlement process or its progress from Accused.

(d) The unintelligible version recorded at pg. 39 of the brief about the version

given by complainant to the Nuwara Eliya Regional Office.

(e) Further, Radhakrishna, the brother-in-law who had signed as a guarantor to

the People's Bank loan and who helped the complainant to raise the loan

from Wasantha malli to settle the bank loan states that the complainant

Mahendran had informed him that it was from the Grama Seveka Accused

that he came to know that the house and property was to be sold by the

Bank but he does not say that Mahendran had informed him of having

given Rs. 10,0000 to the Accused.

6

My attention has also been drawn to the misapplication of the

Ratio in 'Hirijibhai case, and the proceedings not being adopted by the trial

Judge who wrote the Judgment. I have considered all those matters contained

in the written submissions submitted on behalf of the Accused-Appellant and

the submissions of learned Senior State Counsel, and his written submissions.

I would for the purpose of the record make a note of the gist

of the submissions of learned Senior State Counsel who had taken the trouble

to prepare and present a comprehensive set of written submissions for the

benefit of this court. It was his position inter alia that the Accused party has

failed to exercise his right under Section 48 of the Judicature Act. The said

section reads thus:

Section 48 of the Judicature Act, in the case of death, sickness, resignation, removal

from office, absence from Sri Lanka, or other disability of any judge before whom any

action, prosecution proceeding or matter, whether on any inquiry preliminary to

committal for trial or otherwise, has been instituted or is pending, such action,

prosecution, proceeding or matter may be continued before the successor of such judge

who shall have power to act on the evidence already recorded by his predecessor, or

partly recorded by his predecessor and partly recorded by him or if he thinks fit, to re-

summon the witness and commence the proceedings afresh:

I I

J 1 I ... I.

7

Provided that where any criminal prosecution, or matter except on any inquiry

preliminary to committal for trial is continued before the successor of any such judge,

the accused may demand that the witnesses be re-summoned and re-heard."

Learned State Counsel emphasis that it is the Accused party

who should make an application to re-summon witnesses or demand for trial

de nova. In this case the Accused party did not do so and as such there is no

obligation for the trial Judge to re-summon witnesses or make order for trial

de nova. He also states that the proceedings indicate that the Accused party

merely moved for postponements without exercising his right under Section

48 as aforesaid to file written submissions and as such the trial Judge is well

within the law to proceed from the point where his predecessor stopped. In

other words the Accused party has acquiesced in the continuation of the

proceedings and there is no necessity even to adopt the proceedings and the

succeeding trial Judge could proceed to enter judgment. The new Judge has

the following choice, according to the learned Senior State Counsel.

(l) To act on the evidence already recorded by his predecessor.

(2) To re-summon witnesses and commence proceedings.

ti I

i

~

f!it!!II,

1 , I I ! I

8

Our attention was drawn by learned Senior State Counsel to the test

of probability, and according to him the test of probability would necessarily

fail due to the evidence led at the trial and the initial complaints Pi & P2,

where criminal investigation were moved by Government officials and not the

complainant. It was also submitted inter alia that based on evidence it was the

Accused that informed that the property in question would be mortgaged and

that the Accused would be in a position to differ the auction. In this regard

several items of evidence of witnesses were highlighted. We were also

cautioned about the following tests and aspects which no doubt are useful to

decide on the culpability of the Accused person.

(a) Witnesses means of knowledge - the bribe was directly handed

over to the Accused-Appellant by the victim.

(b) Test of consistency -Internal consistency of a witness,

consistency inter se and per-se

(c) Test of inconsistency - contradictions and omissions

(d) Test of spontaneity - Victim has informed the Regional Manager

of People's Bank at the first available opportunity

(e) Test of interest - 1st information and the entire criminal justice

process has commenced on the information provided by the

Divisional Secretary of Nuwara-Eliya

, f

9

(f) Test of falsehood - Whether there was a reason for the victim or

a material witness had a reason to falsely implicate the Accused-

Appellant?

(A) All lending institutions and Banks whether Government/Semi

Government or private institutions require security to be provided for any loan

facility. Thereby compel parties to enter into agreements. Parties are made

known orally and in writing of their respective obligations. Complainant no

doubt is a businessman. Although the Accused-Appellant a Grama Sevaka had

nothing to do with the Bank, some busy bodies in this country fraudulently or

otherwise attempt and demonstrate to layman, that they are capable of

interfering even with public institutions. Sometimes they may be in a position,

if they work, hand in glove with corrupt officials to show some results. The

complainant came to know that his house and property would be eventually

auctioned, by the Bank, and it was the Accused party who gave him the first

information. The testimony of the complainant and his mother confirm above.

It is also evident from the testimony of witnesses that transpired in court that:

(a) Complainant nor his mother never made an effort to ascertain how the

Accused got information of auctioning the property.

(b) Nor has the complainant tried to ascertain whether (a) above is correct.

I I 10

(c) Complainant nor his mother never inquired from the Accused party as to

how auction sale would be suspended or stopped.

(d) The complainant did not take the trouble to verify from bank officials about

above as the complainant was known to bank officials.

(e) Within a very short space of time ten thousand rupees paid to the Accused

having collected money by breaking a till.

(f) Having paid Rs. 10,000/-, complainant never inquired about the progress of

settling the issue, with bank, from the Accused-Appellant.

(g) Accused solicited Rs. 10,000/- to get the property released within 21 days.

Almost immediately or before the said expiry of 21 days as told by the

Accused-Appellant the complainant initiated steps to repay or settle the

bank having obtained a loan from one (Wasantha Malli", who was

introduced by his brother-in-law Radakrishnan.

(h) Radakrishnan not made known about the dealings the complainant had

with the Accused party as regards the solicitation of Rs. 10,000/-

It is the view of this court that (a) to (h) above demonstrate and

establish the deficiencies and improbability of the prosecution version. The

failure to ascertain the progress of the Accused-Appellant dealings if any with

I I 11

the bank and the other immediate steps to settle the bank, independently of

any intervention by the Accused-Appellant, creates a reasonable doubt in the

prosecution version. A complainant who applied for a loan facility and

obtained same from a bank, cannot be so ignorant of the steps that would

follow or the consequences that flow on his failure to settle the facility. If he

depends on a Grama Sevaka to negotiate and settle the issue, one cannot

contemplate as to why no inquiry was made about the progress made by the

relevant Grama Sevaka, having parted with ten thousand rupees. The

probabilities echoes in favour of the Accused party, which is a question of fact.

In Wickremasinghe Vs. Dedoleena and others 1996 (2) SLR at 96 -per

Jayasooriya J. itA Judge, in applying the test of probabilities and improbability

relies heavily on his knowledge of men and matters and the pattern of conduct

observed by human beings both ingenious as well as those who are less

talented and fortunate".

I wish to observe that the realities of life and the testimony of a witness

cannot always be co-related. Nothing is perfect in life and the truth does

not surface so easily as a man so bias could attempt to hide the truth or

distort it. The test of probability need to be applied and recognized to

12

grapple with normal human behavior and problems and pave the way for

likelihood of occurrence.

(8) During the course of the argument another question arose, that the

judgment was delivered by not the Judge who heard and saw the witnesses.

The trial Judge must carefully follow the evidence led and he would always

have the advantage of the impressions created by the witnesses whom he saw

and heard. When he sit down to write the Judgment it is natural to recollect

the finer points in the case. If the trials in the original court are heard and

taken up on a day to day basis, it may not be necessary to resort to the

provisions contained in Section 48 of the Judicature Act. Over the years the

ever increasing litigation has resulted in Judges granting postponements to

ensure that good part of the cases in the role could be taken up for hearing.

On the other hand the law permits jury option to be ascertained, from the

Accused party and the majority of criminal cases are now heard as a non-jury

trial. The several instances where the presiding trial Judge is unable to

continue with the trial are referred to in Section 48 of the Judicature Act. This

section no doubt enable the succeeding Judge to continue the case from the

point it was stopped. The discretion is vested in the trial Judge to re-summon

13

the witnesses and commence proceedings afresh. The proviso to Section 48

permits the Accused party to make an application and demand for a fresh trial

or to recall witnesses.

The way above section is drafted and introduced by the legislature

no doubt casts and obligation on the trial Judges to use his discretion in a

reasonable manner and decide for himself and to select the options available

under Section 48 of the said Act. If and when the succeeding trial Judge

decides to re-hear witnesses or hear the case afresh or continue from the

stage it was stopped the law envisages the trial Judge to make up his mind and

do what is necessary for the case and do justice to the case. There is no

automatic continuation of the trial, vested in the succeeding Judge. The

succeeding Judge is under in any circumstances bound to give a fair hearing to

the Accused party or to the parties in a case as recognized by article 13 of the

Constitution. In the instance case I agree with learned Senior State Counsel

that the Accused party made no such application as required by the Provisions

of Section 48 of the Judicature Act. But a continuation by the trial Judge

without formally adopting the proceedings would be unacceptable and it is

essential to record that fact of adopting proceedings, which would be on one

hand the usual practical approach. On the other hand an integral part of a fair

14

trial, to adopt the proceedings and go ahead with the case. If not, just like the

case in hand justice is never seen to be done. It is imperative to do so and a

practice to ascertain from the parties whether to adopt the proceedings has

developed in our jurisdiction which equates with a right to a fair hearing.

As regards absence of formal adoption of proceedings the case of

Ratnayake Vs. A. G is relevant 2004(1) SLR 390.

Held:

The trial judge who finally concluded the trial had failed to formally adopt the proceedings

held before his predecessor. This is a violation of a fundamental procedural requirements

which justifies a re-trail in the interests of justice

Per Nanayakkara J.,

"Ordering a re-trail against the accused-appellant who had be under the strain of a

criminal charge poised over his head for such a long period of time 15 years - would be

resulting in causing irremediably detrimental consequences and disorganization to his

family"

The question of a trial Judge who never had the opportunity to hear

evidence of witnesses or Judgment founded on evidence led before another

Judge had not been approved in our legal system from ancient times (1900).

As at present one could argue that times are different. Whatever the

difference the basic rules should be followed not for the benefit of the court,

but for the litigants. In Samaraweera Vs. Jayawardena 4 NLR 106 ..

III

J! II! f I

t

15

An allegation of misconduct, in an action for divorce ought to specify the date and place

of the act complained of

Though The Courts Ordinance, section 89, provides that in the case of a removal of a

judge, while the suit is pending, another judge may take up the case and act on the

evidence already recorded, yet such a course should not be followed except where such

evidence is of a merely formal character.

In a case where the decision depends altogether upon t he credit to be given to the

plaintiff and his witnesses, it is not proper for a judge who has not heard the plaintiff and

his witnesses to decide on their veracity and trustworthiness, when he has the means in his

power of judging for himself by calling and examining them.

In all the above facts and circumstances and particularly for the

reasons in (A) & (8) above, we are not inclined to favour the prosecution

version. Nor do we wish to send the case back to the original court for trial de

nova. As such we proceed to set aside the conviction and sentence, and allow

this appeal.

Appeal allowed.

l1~~' VoGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P. R. Walgama

I agree.

PPEAL

fI

[

fl

f

!! ! I

\

I i

I