==== BLOCKS ==== 

\ ..

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANLA

C.A. No. 211/2012

Premasirige Indika Roshan Premajayan tha,

Accused -Appellan t

H.C. Anuradhapura 58/2010 Vs.

Before

Counsel

Argued on

Decided on

Hon. Attorney General

Respondent

Sisira J. de Abrew, J. (Acting PICA) &

P.W .. D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

Anil Silva P.C. with Dinushika Medagoda for the

Accused-Appellant.

Ayesha Jinasena D.S.G. for the A.G.

20.01.2014 and 21.01.2014

21.01.2014

Sisira J. de Abrew,J (Acting PICA).

The Accused-Appellant produced by the Prison Authorities IS

present in Court.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

1

,rf

I

t

t

f

!

f!II

The Accused Appellant in this case was convicted for rapmg a

woman named Sriyani Hemalatha and was sentenced to a term of ten

years rigorous imprisonment, to pay a fine Rs.25,OOO j - carrying a

default sentence of three months simple imprisonment and to pay a sum

of Rs.I00,OOOj- as compensation to the victim carrying a default

sentence of one year simple imprisonment. Being aggrieved by the said

conviction and the sentence he has appealed to this court. Facts of this

case may be briefly summarized as follows:-

The Accused-Appellant and the prosecutrix were living m one

neighbourhood. On the day of the incident the parents of the

procesutricx had gone to a funeral house in a neighbouring village.

When the prosecutrix (Hemalatha) was caging hens in the rear side of

her house, the Accused-Appellant came to this place. He closing the

mouth of the prosecutricx with one hand and putting the other hand

around her waist, in a loving manner, took her to the front room of the

house. The Accused- Appellant thereafter, put her on the bed in the room

and raped her. The prosecutrix says that she tried to push the Accused-

Appellant but failed. She had also told the Accused-Appellant that

there was no one at home. The Accused- Appellant then said that he

would go without wasting much time. After the incident she washed

herself and washed her cloths. She says that there were reddish liquid

and some liquid in solid form ( "possibly sperms" ) on her cloth. She

2

washed the cloths. Thereafter she went and told one Ramyalatha what

happened to her. Thereafter she went and told the Sister-in-law of the

Accused -Appellant who advised her not to tell the mother , as mother

was very rough and tough. However, she did not tell the mother on the

same day. According to her, she told the mother six days after the

incident. Before she told the mother she had told the incident to

Ramyalatha, Sister-in-law of the Accused-Appellant, mother of the

accused and her aunt (Father's brother's wife). Thereafter she too went

to the funeral house which was in the neighbouring village. After she told

the incident to the mother, she went and ledged a complaint in the

police station. The Accused-Appellant gave evidence under oath. He

took up the position that he committed sexual intercourse on Hemalatha

with her consent. He further said that even on the previous day he

had sexual intercourse with Hemalatha with her consent. This incident

took place on the 14.05.2005. A ccording to the evidence of the Accused-

Appellant on 12.05.2005, he invited Hemalatha to his house. At this

stage she replied in the following manner:-"Father is at home. Today I

cant" At this stage she invited him to come to her house on the following

day. The accused says that she complied with her request. Since the

Accused-Appellant has taken up the position that sexual intercourse was

committed with the consent of Hemalatha, it is necessary to consider, the

law relating to the offence of rape. Hemalatha was around 20 years of age

3

I

i,t tr, i r 1! I

It

f

f

at the time of this incident. In a charge of rape the prosecution must,

beyond reasonable doubt, prove the following ingredients.

1. Sexual intercourse was committed on the woman.

2. The said sexual intercourse was committed by the accused.

3. The said sexual intercourse was committed on the women

without her consen t or against her will.

If the prosecutrix was under 16 years of age, it is not necessary for

the prosecution to prove the 3rd ingredient. If the woman was under 16

years of age and if the accused has committed sexual intercourse on her

with or without her consent the accused would be guilty of the offence of

rape. If the court comes to the conclusion that on the evidence of the

prosecution itself, sexual intercourse was committed with the consent

of the woman who was above 16 years of age, the accused should be

acquitted of the charge. If the court finds that there is a reasonable

doubt on the evidence of the prosecution itself, with regard to the

question that sexual intercourse was committed with the consent of the f,

woman, the accused must be acquitted of the charge. Therefore it is

necessary for this court to find out whether there was any consent by the

prosecutrix Hemalatha to the sexual intercourse. The accused-appellant

in his evidence says that he committed sexual intercourse on Hemalatha

with her consent. He doesn't stop at this point. He further says that he

committed sexual intercourse on the previous day as well. Learned

prosecuting State Counsel could not mark any contradiction or omission

4

,

1 l ! .

I 1

~ I 1 1 I I I I I I I I I I ,

with his statement made to the police. This suggests that the position

taken up by the Accused-Appellant in his evidence has been the same

position that he took up in his statement made to the police.

The learned trial Judge, in his judgment, has not rejected the

evidence of the accused-appellant. He has failed to state whether the

evidence of the Accused-Appellant creates any reasonable doubt in the

prosecution case. I would, at this stage, for the benefit of the trial Judges

and legal practitioners of this country, like to state the following

guidelines with regard to the evaluation of the evidence of an accused

person.

1. If the evidence of the accused is believed it must be acted upon.

2. If the evidence of the accused creates a reasonable doubt in the

prosecution case the accused must be acquitted.

The learned trial Judge, in his judgment, has observed that the

accused in his evidence has not challenged the evidence of the

procecutrix. This is factually incorrect. The Accused-Appellant in his

evidence has challenged the evidence of the prosecutrix. He has stated,

in his evidence, that he committed sexual intercourse on Hamalatha with

her consent. Thus, in my view, the accused-appellant has challenged the

evidence of the prosecutrix. The learned trial judge after making the said

5

{

r.

IIII

~

Ii

observation has stated in his judgment that the credibility of the

prosecutrix has not been impeached. In my view, when the accused-

appellant challenged the evidence of the prosecutrix, Court must

consider whether the credibility of the prosecutrix has been impeached

or not. The learned Trial Judge has not followed the principle that I

stated above. In our view, there is no reason to reject the evidence of the

Accused-Appellant. Further the evidence of the Accused-Appellant, in my

view, creates a reasonable doubt in the truth of the prosecution case.

If)./ Further, we would like to observe the ~ that the prosecutrix washed /'-her clothes. If her intention was to make a complaint of rape against the

Accused-Appellant, the said evidence would have been the best evidence.

But if the Accused-Appellant admits that sexual intercourse was

committed on her with her consent, the said evidence would not be

important. We do not know as to why the prosecutrix washed her

clothes. Further, the prosecutrix brought this matter to the notice of her

mother after six days. The reason given by her is, that her mother was

very rough and tough. But, before she brought this matter to the notice

of her mother, she went and told four women in the village

I have to ask the question as to why she did not bring this matter

to the notice of her mother. Is it Because that she had a guilty conscious

with regard to the incident? Is it because she consented to the act of

sexual intercourse? In this connection, it is pertinent to observe that the

6

way in which the accused-appellant took her to the front room of the

house. The Accused-Appellant closing her mouth with one hand and

putting the other hand around her waist in a loving manner, took her to

the front room and committed sexual intercourse. When we consider

these observations, we feel that there is a reasonable doubt with regard

to the question that she had given her consent to the sexual intercourse.

We therefore hold that the charge of rape has not been proved beyond

reasonable doubt. For the above reasons, we hold that the judgment of

learned trial Judge convicting the accused-appellant for the offence of the

rape is erroneous and cannot be sustained. For the above reasons, we

set aside the conviction and the sentence and acquit the Accused-

Appellant.

Appeal allowed.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

CN/-

7