==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL

OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. [PHC] No.37/05

Muththusamy Balaganeshan No.65/ 138, Crow Island Mattakkuliya Colombo 15.

ACCllsed-Appellall..t-Appellant

Vs

H.C.NEGOMBO CASE NO.HCA 300/2003

M.C.NEGOMBO CASE NO.H 36051

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS

DECIDED ON

1. Officer-In -Cnarge Police Station Seeduwa

2. Hon.Attorney General Attorney General's Department Colombo 12

Complainant-Responde nt-Respondents

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J.

W.M.M.MALINIE GUNARATNE, J.

N.Srikanthan with S.Panchadasan for the Accused-Appellant Anoopa de Silva S.S.C. for the Complainant-Respondents

04.12.2014

02.02.2015 by the Accu~,ed-Appellant 10.03.2015 by the Ccmplainant-Respondents

25. 03. 2015

"'1

It·

~.

".

".

\

fIII

I

CHITRASIRI, J.

When this matter was taken up for argument, learned Senior State Counsel

who appeared for the two respondents submitted that this Court has no jurisdiction

to hear and determine this appeal in view of the decision in Wickremasekera vs.

Officer-In-Charge, Police Station, Ampara. [2004) (1) SLR 257J In view of the

submissions referred to above, both parties moved that they be given an opportunity

to file submissions in writing on the aforesaid issue as to the jurisdiction of this .'

Court.

This appeal has been filed to challenge inter alia the decision dated

17.01.2005 of the learned High Court Judge in Negombo. The aforesaid judgment of :.

the learned High Court Judge had been made pursuant to an appeal filed in that

Court to challenge the decision dated 18.08.2003 of the learned Magistrate in

Negombo. In that decision learned Magistrate convicted the accused for an offenc~ ",

under Section 298 of the Penal Code. Therefore, it is clear that the learned

Provincial High Court Judge has exercised appellate powers in this instance.

Being aggrieved by the aforesaid decisio::1 of learned High Court Judge, the

appellant filed this appeal addressing it to this Court. Accordingly, learned Senior

State Counsel took up the position that this Court has no jurisdiction to hear and

determine this appeal, in views of the decision in Wickremasekera vs. Officer-In.-

Charge. Police Station, Ampara. (supra)

"'2

I

1 i I I I ,

I

I

Learned Counsel for the appellant in his written submissions has referred to

the decisions in the cases of Abeygunasekera v. Setunga and others [1997 Sri

Lanka Law Reports (Vol.1) at page 62} and Abeywardene v. Ajith de Silva

[1998 Sri Lanka Law Reports (Vol.1) at page 134} in support of his case.

Accordingly, learned Counsel for the appellant has contended that this Court is

vested with jurisdiction in terms of Article 138( 1) and Article 154 P (6) of the

Constitution to hear and determine this appeal and therefore this Court has the

jurisdiction to entertain this appeal.

The identical issue had been discussed comprehensively by Shirani

Bandaranayake,J (as she then was) in Wickremasek~ra vs. Officer-In-Charge, Police

Station, Ampara. (supra) In that decision, she hC:IS referred to Article 138(1) and

Article 154 P (6) of the Constitution as well and hcs dealt with the issue in length.

She has also referred to the two cases namely Abeygunasekera v. Setunga and

others (supra) and Abeywardene v. Ajith de SUva (supra) relied upon by the

learned Counsel for the appellant.

Therefore, it is clear that the identical issue had been dealt with by the

Supreme Court having referred to the authorities relied upon by the learned Counsel

for the appellant. In such a situation this Court is bound to follow the decision in

Wickremasekera vs. Officer-In-Charge, Police Station, Ampara (supra).

Accordingly, as decided in the case of Wickremasekera vs. Officer-In-Charge,

Police Station, Ampara, (supra) I conclude that this Court does not possess

jurisdiction to hear and determine this appeal.

"'3

For the aforesaid reasons, this appeal is dism::.ssed. The Registrar of this Court

is directed to inf()rm the learned Magistrate of Negombo, to implement the sentence

passed on the accused-appellant on 15.08.2003 after the appealable period is lapsed

allowing the appellant to lodge an appeal against the decision of this Court if he

wishes so.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

MALINIE GUNARATNE, J.

I agree

JU=>GE O? TEE COURT OF APPEAL

'''4

,t! t

i • !

t~.. I l

".