==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 676 / 97 F

D.C. Kegalle No. 25109 / P

Gallath RaIlage Dharmadasa, Dhalukgala, Rambukkana.

Plaintiff

Vs.

1. Gallath RaIlage Karunathilake, 2. Mohottallage Kusumawathie, 3. Manannalage Dharmadasa, All ofDhalukgala, Rambukkana.

Defendants

AND NOW BETWEEN

Manannalage Dharmadasa, Dhalukgala Rambukkana.

3 rd Defendant Appellant Vs

Gallath RaIlage Dharmadasa, Dhalukgala, Rambukkana.

Plaintiff Respondent

1. Gallath RaIlage Karunathilake, 2. Mohottallage Kusumawathie, Both of Dhalukgala, Rambukkana.

1 st & 2nd Defendant Respondents

\

t

I

tI

IIf I

fl

if t ! I It

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

Sandamal Rajapaksa for the 3rd Defendant

Appellant

D. M. G. Dissanayake for the Plaintiff

Respondent

29.10.2013

21.01.2014

The Plaintiff Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the Respondent)

instituted the said action against 1st to 3rd Defendants in the District Court of

Kegalle seeking for a judgment to partition a land called 'Hitinawatta' described in

the schedule to the plaint. The 2nd and 3rd Defendants have filed their statement of

claim praying that a land called 'Paluwatta' form a part of the corpus and shares of

the said land as prayed for in prayer 2 of the statement of claim. The case

proceeded to trial on 16 issues. After trial the learned District Judge has delivered a

judgment in favour of the Plaintiff Respondent. Being aggrieved by the said

judgement dated 01.08.1997 the 3rd Defendant Appellant (hereinafter referred to as

the Appellant) has preferred the instant appeal to this court.

The Appellant's position was that the said land called 'Paluwatta' also

form a part of the land to be partitioned and he was entitled to an undivided Yz

I

i I r t

I I

f K

I I

I I

3

share of the said land called 'Paluwatta' and also 3116 share of the corpus. At the

trial the Appellant has produced his title deed marked 2 V 1. It had been executed

in order to transfer three different lands. According to item No 2 of the schedule to

the said title deed 2 V 1 said land called 'Paluwatta' was situated at Dompemulla.

But the land described in the schedule to the plaint was situated at Pinnawala.

Hence the Appellant should adduce evidence to prove that said 'Paluwatta' form a

part of the land to be partitioned. But the Appellant has failed to adduce such

evidence to prove his case. The Appellant has not made any attempt to identifY the

corpus by a survey plan.

In the said circumstances I find no reason to interfere with the said

judgement of the learned District Judge dated 01.08.1997. Therefore I dismiss the

instant appeal of the Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

\

~ ; 1I I I.

~ [ I