==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

C.A (Writ) Application No. 105/2012

In the matter of an application for

mandate in the nature of Writ of

Certiorari and Prohibition in terms of

Article 140 of the Constitution of the

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

Lanka.

Mr. K.G.Somapala, No.36/12,

Parakum Mawatha, Attidiya, Dehiwela.

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. Mr. S.S.G.Perera

2. Mrs. Samarage Sirima Kamalani

Perera,

1

Both ofNo. 36/9 (26/3),

Parakum Mawatha,

Attidiya,

Dehiwela.

BEFORE

3. Mr. Raja Gunaratne,

The commissioner ofNational

Housing,

Department of National Housing,

Ministry of Construction,

Engineering Services, Housing and

Common Amenities,

"Sethsiripaya",

Sri J ayawardenapura Kotte,

Battaramulla.

4. Hon. Wimal Weerewansa,

Ministry of Constructions,

Engineering Services, Housing and

Common Amenities,

" Sethsiripaya ",

Sri Jayawardenapura Kotte,

Battaramulla.

RESPONDENT

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J

2

COUNSEL

Argued On

Decided On

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake J.

C.E de Silva with S. Walgama for the

Petitioner

D.P. Mendis P.C. for the 1st and 2nd

Respondents

Vikum de Abrew, SSC for the 3rd and 4th

Respondents

07.02.2013

31.07.2013

S.V. Perera father of the 1st and the 2nd Respondents came for occupation in

premises No: 36/9 (26/3), (hereafter referred to as premises in suit) Parakum

Mawatha, Aththidiya, Dehiwala, in 1950 as the tenant under Mulin Pieris

who was then owner of the said premises. An application was made by said

H. V. Perera against Mulin Pieris in1976 under section13 of the Ceiling on

Housing Property Law No: 01 of 1973. Subsequent to the said application

Mulin Pieris had transferred the said property to Michel Dabare and Mala

3

Pieris in 1981 and the Petitioner has bought the property from them in 1988

by the deed marked as X 1. After an inquiry held under the provisions of

CHP Law, the 3rct Respondent as the Commissioner of National Housing had

been satisfied that the application made by said H.V. Perera was consistent

with the requirement under section 71 of CHP Law and had decided to

report the matter to the 4th Respondent the Minister of Housing affairs. The

said decision had been informed to the Petitioner by the letter dated

17.08.1988 which is marked as X2. The Petitioner had made an appeal to the

CHP Board of Review and the Board of Review had decided to agree with

the order made by the 3rd Respondent and had dismissed the appeal. The said

decision marked as X3. Thereafter the Petitioner has filed an application in

this court seeking the writ of certiorari to quash the decision of the Board of

Review and that application had been dismissed by this court by the order

which has been marked as X4.

The Ombudsman had recorded some proceedings relevant to a file No:

P/2/3/1242 on 29.10.2001 regarding a matter between the petitioner and the

3rd Respondent which appears to be an understanding between the two

parties. According to those proceedings which has been marked as X6 an

undertaking has been given on behalf of the 3 rd Respondent to take steps to

disown two houses, premises in suit and another after obtaining necessary

instructions. The 3rd Respondent by the letter dated 14.10.2010 which has

been marked as X11 had informed the Petitioner that premises in suit had

not been vested in him under CHP Law. But again the 3rd Respondent had

informed to the Petitioner by the letter dated 09.01.2011 referring to the

previous letter, that even if it had been informed that the premises in suit had

not been vested in the Commissioner of National Housing it was now under

review on new facts submitted before him. The said letter has been marked

as X12.

4

In the instant application the Petitioner is seeking to grant and issue mandate

in the nature of a Writ of Certiorari quashing the decision of the 3rd

Respondent contained in X12, and a writ of prohibition against the 3rd

Respondent taking steps in any manner and dealing with the premises in suit

under the CHP Law.

The 1st & 2nd Respondents m their objections state inter alia that the

Petitioner has acted in fraudulent manner not only in purchasing the property

over the head of the tenant but also in obtaining X6 and X 11 which over ride

X2 and X3 ignoring the principle of audi alteram partem.

The Petitioner's contention is that the decision of the 3rd Respondent

contained in X2 had not been published in the government gazette. With the

death of S.V. Perera his application made under section 13 of CHP Law had

come to an end. The Petitioner further submits that heirs of S. V. Perera are

not entitled to proceed with the same application, according to the principle

of law stated by the Supreme Court in the case of Lilawathi Vs Manel

Rathnayake 1998(3) SLR 349.

The argument raised by the learned SSC who appeared for the 3rd and 4th

Respondents was that there is no decision taken by the 3rd Respondent as per

X12 to be challenged by way of a Writ application. Learned SSC submits in

the case of R v. Statutory Visitors, St. Lawrence Hospital Caterham ex

p. Pritchard [1953] 2 All ER 766,773, Parker J held that there must be a

decision or determination for a writ to be available. It has been pointed out

that above judgment has been followed in the case of Mendis, Fowzie V

Goonerwardane 78-79 2SLR 322.

It is quite clear that the 3rd Respondent has taken a decision on the

application made by S.V. Perera, to publish a" Vesting order" in respect of

the premises in suit and the said order has not been changed or quashed

5

either by the Board of Review or by this court. An action taken by a public

officer which comes under his I her preview becomes enforceable only if it

is done following the procedure relevant to such action. Any action done or

decision taken outside the relevant procedure shall be treated, as personal

and arbitrary. Obviously the proceedings recoded by Dr. R.B. Ranaraja (X6)

and the letter sent by M. Sridaran (XII) in their capacity as the Ombudsman

and the Commissioner of National Housing, respectively are not based on

acceptable procedure. Therefore this court is of the view that the 3rd

Respondent has not been prevented from taking whatsoever procedural

action in regard to the matter in issue in his capacity as the Commissioner of

National Housing. This court decides that there is no merit in the application

of the petitioner and therefore dismisses the application with cost.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

I agree.

PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

6