==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

C.A. Writ Application No.744/2008

In the matter of an application for

mandates in the nature of Writ of

Certiorari and Writ of Mandamus

under and in terms of article 140 of

the Constitution.

Ven Eheliyagoda Dhammasiddhi,

Ashokaramaya,

No.l9, Thimbirigasyaya Road,

Colombo 05.

Appearing through his Power of

Attorney Holder, Ven. Thalagala

Rewatha of Ashokaramaya, No.l9,

Thimbirigasyaya Road,

Colombo 05.

Petitioner

Vs.

01. Maharagama Urban Council,

Maharagama.

02. Kanthi Kodikara,

Chairman,

Urban Council, Maharagama.

03. Ven. Kithalagama Hemasara,

Registrar of the Regional

Shasanarakshaka

IIi

fIlI

i

t.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued on

Decided on

S.Sriskandarajah, J,

2

Mandalaya, Maharagama and

District Shasanarakshaka

Mandalaya, Colombo,

Viwekaramaya, Mirihana,

Nugegoda.

Respondents

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

Saliya Peiris,

for the Petitioner,

Mahinda Ralapanawa with I Marapana,

for the 1st and 2nd Respondents

R.Jayaratne,

for the 3rd Respondent

29.11.2011

21.02.2013

The Petitioner is the Power of Attorney holder of Ven. Eheliyagoda

Dhammasiddhi Thero. The Petitioner submitted that he prepared a building plan to

build a hostel for foreign bikkhus who will be staying in Sri Lanka and the said

building plan was submitted to the 1st Respondent Urban Council as the said building

was to be built in a private land owned by the Petitioner situated in Pamunugama

Road, Maharagama. After the said plan was handed over to the 1st Respondent on 27th

December 2000, for approval, it was not considered favourably because of certain

!I!I

tIj

l

JIIIIIII

Il

~

j

3 i 1 objections by the general public with regard to the construction of a bikkhu hostel in I 1 that area. This was communicated to the Petitioner by the 1st Respondent by letter

dated 26/07/2007, and the 1st Respondent Council had decided to hold a discussion

with all parties concerned and the Petitioner was also summoned for a discussion on 7th

August 2007. In the said discussion the 3rd Respondent was also present. Thereafter,

considering the objection raised by several parties present in the said discussion, the 1st

Respondent Council refused the said building plan.

It is the position of the Petitioner that the refusal of the said building plan by the 1st and

2nd Respondents is arbitrary, illegal and unreasonable and based on irrelevant

consideration as the Petitioner has fulfilled all the requirements stated in the building

application and, in these circumstances, the Petitioner has sought a writ of certiorari to

quash the said decision for not granting approval for the said building plan.

It is the contention of the Respondents that the residence of the area, including

the Maharagama Viharadipathi, Sangamaya of Maharagama, objected to the

construction of the aforesaid building.

The building approvals were given by the local authority considering the

purpose for which the said building is built, and also whether that purpose is permitted

within the zoning that was identified by the said local authority. The local authority's

zonings are based on commercial, residential and mixed development areas, and these

areas are identified by the local authorities and were given permission according to the

use of the said building that will fall within the relevant zone. The present application

is made for a residential hostel in a residential area, but the objection raised by the

residents is, and it appears that the purpose of the said building is, not for the residence

of foreign bikkhus, but for the propagation of a sector of Buddhism which is not

followed by the residents of that area, and that had caused concern of the general public

and had made objections for the approval of a building for the said purpose.

I I

I I I

I I

I I

4

On the representation made by the Petitioner for reconsideration of the building

application, the 1st Respondent summoned the Petitioner, the 3rd Respondent, and the

representatives of the organization who objected to the construction of the said

building, and the Members of the 1st Respondent Council and, at the said meeting, it

was decided to refer the matter to the Commissioner- General of Buddhist Affairs to

table this issue before the All Island Sasanarakshaka Mandalaya. In response to this

request, the Commissioner-General of Buddhist Affairs replied to the 1st Respondent

stating, that if approval was given to establish the proposed Centre, it may result in a

breach of peace situation in the area. In view of the above observation of the

Commissioner-General of Buddhist Affairs, and in considering the objection raised by

the residents and other organizations of that area, the 1st Respondent had refused the

building permit.

The planning approval was delegated to the 1st Respondent by the Urban

Development Authority. As I have already observed, the 1st Respondent is empowered

to identify the relevant zones and grant building approval according to the zone it has

identified. The Petitioner's application is for the building of a Centre which cannot be

strictly considered as residential, and the purpose for which the said building is to be

constructed is not strictly falling within a residential premises. As the 1st Respondent

has the power and authority to determine this issue, and has come to the conclusion

that the Centre is not strictly for a residential purpose, and the purpose for which the

Centre is established, may cause breach of peace situation in the area, the 1st

Respondent is justified in rejecting the said building plan and in those circumstances

the Petitioner cannot seek a writ of certiorari quashing the decision embodied in P3 and

P7 and, therefore, this Court dismisses this application without cost.

President of the Court of Appeal