==== BLOCKS ==== 

•

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 682 I 1997 F

D.C. Kandy No. 13070 I P

Dissanayake Mudiyanselage Tikiribanda,

'J ayanthi Ni wasa, Alagalla Ihala, Hathara Liyadda.

Plaintiff

Vs.

1. Dissanayake Mudiyanselage Aberathna, 2. Dissanayake Mudiyanselage Herath Banda, Both of Pinwatta, Allagalla Ihala, Hathara Liyadda.

Defendants

AND NOW BETWEEN

Dissanayake Mudiyanselage Tikiribanda,

'Jayanthi Niwasa, Alagalla Ihala, Hathara Liyadda.

Plaintiff Appellant Vs 1. Dissanayake Mudiyanselage Aberathna, 2. Dissanayake Mudiyanselage Herath Banda, Both of Pinwatta, Allagalla Ihala, Hathara Liyadda.

Defendant Respondents

i

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

Aravinda R.I.Athurupana for the Plaintiff

Appellant

Nimal Muthukumarana for the Defendant

Respondent

20.06.2012

21.02.2013

The Plaintiff Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant)

instituted the said action against 1st and 2nd Defendant Respondents (hereinafter

referred to as the Respondents) in the District Court of Kandy seeking to partition

the land described in the schedule to the plaint. After trial the learned District

Judge has dismissed the action of the Appellant. Being aggrieved by the said

judgement dated 25.07.1997 the Appellant has preferred the instant appeal to this

court.

The Appellant's case was that he was entitled to an undivided 115

share and the two Defendants were entitled to undivided 2/5 share of the land

described in the schedule to the plaint. The original owner of the said land was

Palingu Menike and after her death her rights devolved on her five children and the

Appellant by deed of transfer No 29516 dated 08.02.1960 acquired the title of

Dingiri Banda one of the said five children.

The Respondents in their statement of claim has not disputed the said

scheme of partition proposed by the Appellant. They have admitted that they were

3

entitled to undivided 2/5 share each. Even at the trial the parties have not raised

issues of the case. The Appellant's evidence was not subjected to cross

examination. The Respondents have not led evidence at the trial. The Appellant in

his evidence has produced the title deeds of the parties and other requisite

documents marked X, X 1, Y, P 1 toP 5 and V 1 to V 3.

It seems from the said documents that said Palingu Menike's title has

devolved on the Appellant and the Respondents. When there was no contest

between the parties and all possible claimants were before Court the learned

District Judge should consider the evidence of the Appellant and the

documentation produced before court in a way to minimise further litigations

between parties by giving effect to a partition of the land in dispute rather than

going on a voyage of discovery finding loopholes and silly contradictions in the

evidence in order to dismiss the action.

In the case of Karunaratne V s Sirimalee 53 NLR 444 it was held that

Where, in a partition action, all possible claimants to the property are manifestly

before the Court, no higher standard of proof should be called for in determining

the question of title than in any other civil suit.

Therefore I set aside the judgment of the learned District Judge dated

25.07.1997 and allow the appeal of the Appellant without costs. I direct the learned

District Judge to enter interlocutory decree as prayed for in the plaint.

Appeal allowed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal