==== BLOCKS ==== 

J

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA 400j99F

D.C. Colombo 20646/MR

W Piyaratna,

6j4jC, Jubilee Mawatha,

Sapugaskanda.

PLAINTIFF-APPELLANT

VS.

National Insurance Corporation Ltd,

No 47, Muththiah Road,

Colombo 2

DEFENDANT-RESPONDENT.

Before A.W.A. Salam, J.

Counsel Chandaka Jayasundera with Haritha Adikari and Narada Amarasinghe for the plaintiff-appellant and Ronald Perera PC with T K Hirimuthugamage for the defendant-respondent. Argued on : 25.09.2012. Decided on : 31.10.2013

,

<:

<T ,.0 C <'J

o .D

c: o o u u o

1

A.W.A. Salam, J.

The plaintiff-appellant sued the defendant-respondent to

recover damages arising from a policy of insurance. The

learned additional district judge of Colombo dismissed

the action on the preliminary jurisdictional objection

raised by the defendant-respondent. The objection thus

raised was that the court lacked jurisdiction by reason of

the arbitration clause embodied in the policy of

insurance and therefore the plaintiff-appellant is not

entitled to file action without the dispute being first

referred for arbitration. This appeal has been preferred

against the said judgment.

The relevant clause in the policy of insurance reads as

follows ...

Clause 19. "If any difference arises as to the

amount of any loss or damage such difference

shall independently of all other questions be

referred to the decision of an arbitrator, to be

appointed in writing by the parties" ..... .

The plaintiff-appellant having allegedly suffered loss and

damage by reason of a fire that broke out claimed a sum

of Rs. 11,80000/-. The defendant-respondent denied the

liability attributed to it and raised the question of

uberimefide in the answer. In other words the defendant-

......

E' .!!!

ro Vl «

~ «

/"I'l .-i 0 N ci .-i ,....j /"I'l t-Z UJ ~ l!) c ::::> ...... a: ~ .......

1.0 '<t 1.0 0 N

0 .0

E 0 "0 u u c

u.. m m ....... 0 0 '<t

2

respondent took up the position that it is not liable in

law to pay any money to the plaintiff-appellant against

the claim made under the policy of insurance.

In my opinion, the total denial of the defendant-

respondent to pay any sum of money cannot be

considered as having given rise to a difference in the

quantum of the claim as between the amount claimed by

the plaintiff-appellant and any amount agreed to be paid

by the defendant-respondent. The learned president's

counsel for the defendant-respondent argued that the

difference of the claim of the plaintiff-appellant is rupee

zero, as the defendant-respondent has denied liability.

The fallacy of this argument is quite obvious and it

needs to be pointed out that the denial of the liability by

the defendant constitutes "no difference" pertaining to

the claim, as contemplated under clause 19.

In the circumstances, I am of the opinion that the

le?lTIed additional district judge has misconstrued

clause 19 and upheld the preliminary objection. Since

there is no difference that had given rise to, as regards

the claim made by the plaintiff-appellant, on the

quantum of loss and damage arising from the policy of

insurance in question, I am of the firm opinion that no

arbitration proceedings are necessary as a condition

precedent to invoke the jurisdiction of the district court.

ex: ~ ~

~ o N

o .0

E o o u u o

3

Accordingly, issue numbers 8 and 9 are re-answered in the following manner ...

8. No.

9. No.

As such, the appeal preferred by the plaintiff-appellant is

allowed and the impugned order set aside. The learned

trial judge is directed to proceed with trial and determine

the other issues according to law.

The plaintiff-appellant is entitled to the costs of this appeal.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

NR/-

m .-i a N ci .-i .-i m I-Z UJ ~ (!) o ::J ..... a: ~ ~

<:t-ID a N

o .0

E ..Q o u u o

4