==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA 100/2009

PL Duminda Gunawardene

Accused-Appellant

Vs The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Complainant Respondent

HC Gampaha 27 I 2005

Before

Counsel

Argued on Decided on

Sisira J de Abrew J & PWDC JayathilakeJ

ASM Perera PC for the accused appellant Vijith Malagoda ASG for the Respondent

10.5.2013 and 17.5.2013? 25.7.2013

Sisira J de Abrew J.

The accused appellant in this case was convicted for raping a girl under sixteen

years of age named Jayakumari Priyadarshani and was sentenced to a term of ten

years rigorous imprisonment (RI), to pay a fine of Rs.5000/- carrying a default

sentence of six months RI. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence

he has appealed to this court. Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as

follows. The accused appellant was a navy officer and his wife was a nurse

attached to a private hospital. Priyadarshani was brought by the accused appellant

to his house to work as a servant. Her duty was, among other things, to look after

2

the baby of the accused appellant. She was given a room adjoining to the room of

the couple (the accused appellant and his wife). The baby also sleeps in her room

when the mother is not at home. One day when Priyadarshani was sleeping in her

room she felt that her clothes being removed. When she woke up she saw the

accused appellant near her. When she shouted the accused appellant kept a pillow

on her face and pressed and as a result of this action she fainted. She found blood

on her clothes when she regained consciousness. The wife of the accused appellant

was not at home as she was on night duty in the hospital. She can't remember the

date or month of the incident. But she has told the doctor who examined her on

20.11.98 that the date of the incident was 11.1 0.98. The accused appellant, in his

evidence, whilst denying the charge of rape, says that he went to naval base at

Trincomalee on 1oth of November 1998 (not 11.1 0.98). She says that the accused

appellant again on a certain day (she can't remember the date again), when his wife

was on night duty, committed sexual intercourse on her against her will. According

to her one week after this incident the accused appellant left for Trincomalee.

Since the accused appellant has admitted that he, on 1 0.11.98, went to Trincomalee

the above date spoken to by Priyadarshani should be 3.11.98. According to her

evidence this was the second date that he committed sexual intercourse on her. She

says that the accused appellant committed sexual intercourse on her only on two

occasions. The charge against the accused appellant is that he, on 11.10.98 raped

her. He is not charged with two incidents of rape. After the accused appellant left

for Trincomalee, she, on a certain day, (again she can't remember the date) told the

wife of the accused appellant about the rape incident. The wife of the accused

appellant thereafter hit her head against the wall and threw her out of the house. As

a result of this act she sustained a bleeding injury on her head. On the way she met

a woman on the road and when asked for directions to go to Nittambuwa police

station, she (woman) took the girl to her house after advising not to go to the police

3

station. Priyadarshani stayed in this house for four days and ultimately her parents

found her in the woman's house. Priyadarshani and her parents went and lodged a

complaint at Gampaha police station on 18.11.98. Thus the estimated date that she

was thrown out of the house appears to be 14.11.98. The indictment alleges that the

accused appellant raped her on 11.1 0.98.

Doctor Drarmarathne who examined her on 20.11.98 found her hymen

widely open and old scars on the hymen. There were no fresh injuries on the

hymen. According to the doctor the injuries that relate to the scars would have

taken place on any day prior to one month from the date of examination. He further

says that she had gone through sexual intercourse on several times. The VOG who

examined her too says that her vaginal orifice was widely open and that she had

undergone sexual intercourse on several times (pages 170-172). This VOG who

was called by the defence said that there were no fresh injuries. According to

Priyadarshani the accused appellant committed sexual intercourse only on two

occasions and prior to this experience she had not had sexual intercourse. Learned

prosecuting State Counsel who was aware of this evidence did not ask both

doctors, if Priyadarshani had gone through sexual intercourse only twice, whether

symptoms observed by them were compatible with such history. However both

doctors expressed the opinion that she had gone through sexual intercourse on

several occasions. How can the court decide that two occasions of sexual

intercourse equal to several occasions of sexual intercourse in the absence of

medical evidence on this point. Dr. Dharmarathne says that injuries relating to the

scars could have taken place on any day prior to one month of the medical

examination. Thus injuries could have taken place even prior to 11.10.98 or prior

to her coming to this house. It is therefore seen that the medical evidence does not

support or confirm or strengthen the evidence of Priyadarshani. Corroboration in a

case of rape means some independent evidence which confirms or supports or

4

strengthens the victim's evidence. This view is supported by the judicial decision

in the case of Femando Vs Republic 79(ii) NLR page 313 at page 397 wherein

Justice Vaithyalingam held thus: "In our law of evidence corroboration is a term

which has a special significance. In the conventional sense as used in our courts it

means other independent evidence which confirms or supports or strengthens the

evidence which is required to be corroborated." I have earlier pointed out that the

medical evidence does not support or confirm or strengthen the evidence of

Priyadarshani. Therefore it is clear that the medical evidence does not support the

evidence of Priyadarshani. But the learned trial judge without giving adequate

consideration to the above matters, has wrongly concluded that the medical

evidence supported the evidence ofPriyadarshani.

It was the position taken up by Priyadarshani in her evidence that after

she told the incident of rape to the wife of the accused appellant, she (wife of the

accused appellant) hit the head of Priyadarshani against the wall and as a result of

this assault she sustained a bleeding injury on her head. She, in her evidence, does

not give the date of this assault. But the estimated date, as I pointed out earlier, is

14.11.98. Did the doctor who examined her on the 20th of November find any

injury on the head? This question has to be answered in the negative. Then part of

her evidence becomes false. I therefore begin to doubt her story.

She was in the house of the woman whom she met on the road from

14.11.98 to 18.11.98. One would expect her to go to the hospital during this period

as she was suffering from an injury on the head. But she did not do so. During this

period she was free to go to the police station to lodge a complaint on two matters.

One is against the wife of the accused appellant for causing an injury on her head.

The other one is against the accused appellant for raping her. But she did not do so.

It must be considered whether it was possible for her to go to the police station as

she was an outsider to this area. But the woman whom she met on the road has

5

given her shelter during this period (from 14.11.98 to 18.11.98). Thus she could

have easily obtained her assistance to go to the police station and the hospital. The

name of this woman never surfaced at the trial. When I consider these matters

serious doubts are created on the truthfulness of her story. It is interestingto note

the evidence of the wife of the accused appellant on this point. She says when she

came home on 14.11.98 around 2.30 p.m. she found Priyadarshani missing from

home and her small child sleeping. After searching for the girl, she on 15.11.98

lodged a complaint at W eeragula police station about Priyadarshani leaving home.

lP Nimal Rathnayake from W eeragula police station, in his evidence, confirmed

the making of the complaint by the wife of the accused appellant. On 18.11.98

parents of Priyadarshani with Priyadarshani came to the house of the accused

appellant and she with them went to W eeragula police station. She withdrew the

complaint as she had found the girl. lP Nimal Rathnayake confirmed the

withdrawal of the complaint and further stated that Priyadarshani was handed over

to her parents after obtaining a statement of her father. Did the complaint of rape

surface at Weeragula police station? According to lP Nimal Ratnayake no such

complaint had surfaced at Weeragula police station. If there was an incident of

rape as alleged by Priyadarshani on 11.10.98 and in the month of November (she

does not give a date and estimated date is 3.11.98) why didn't her parents make

such a complaint to W eeragula police station. This question remains unanswered.

At this stage one must not forget that Priyadrashani was handed over to her parents

by Weeragula police after obtaining a statement from her father. Thus if there was

an incident of rape isn't it natural for him to make the complaint in the same

statement to the effect that his daughter had been raped. This behaviuor of the

Priyadarshani and her parents creates a serious doubt in her story. Although they

did not make a complaint of rape to Weeragula Police station, later around 8.40

p.m. Priyadarshani made a complaint of rape to Gampaha police station against the

6

accused appellant. This was the 1st complaint made against the accused appellant.

IP Nimal Senanayake from Gampaha police station, in his evidence, says that

according to this complaint she had been raped by the accused appellant only on

18.11.98. At this stage it is pertinent to note that the demand made by the parents

ofPriyadarshani on 18.11.98. According to the wife ofthe accused appellant, they,

after coming from Weeragula police station, demanded Rs.50,000/- from her.

When it was refused, father of Priyadarshani had said he knew how to get

Rs.100,000/- It appears from the evidence that a complaint of rape had been made

only after their demand for Rs.50,000/- was refused. Question has to be asked

again as to why a complaint of rape was not made at Weeragula police station if

she was raped either on 11.10.98 or 18.11.98. This question remains unanswered.

Could the accused appellant have committed any act of sexual

intercourse on Priyadarshnai on 18.11.98? The answer is obviously no because on

this day she was not in the house accused appellant. This clearly demonstrates the

falsity of the story of Priyadarshani. From the above evidence one important matter

could be noted. What is it? That is Priyadarshani even in the company of her

parents did not make a complaint of rape to Weeragula police station on 18.11.98. I

begin to doubt her story seriously when I consider these matters. In my view her

story does not satisfy the test of probability. What prompted Priyadarshani, who

did not make a complaint of rape to Weeragula Police station on 18.11.98, to make

a complaint of rape to Gampaha police station in the night of 18.11.98? Was it the

failure of her parents to obtain money from the wife of the accused appellant? The

learned trial judge has unfortunately not considered these matters.

Why didn't Priyadarshani or her parents make a complaint to Weeragula

police station on 18.11.98 when the Weeragula police handed over to her parents at

Weeragula police station and later decided to lodge a compliant of rape at

Gampaha police station in the night alleging that she was raped on 18.11.98? Is it

l

7

because that there was no incident of rape by the accused appellant and that they

were trying to take advantage of a previous sexual assault by someone? In this

connection it is relevant to consider the short history given by her to Dr.

Dharmarathne. She has ·told Dr. Dharmarathne that Mudalali in the ·house on

11.10.98 raped her. Who is this Mudalali? Priyadarshani says that she knows the

accused appellant as a person who works in the Army (the accused appellant is a

navy officer). Thus can Priyadarshani say that the man in the house is a mudalali?

Certaainly she could have referred to the accused appellant as Army Mahaththaya

(gentleman in the Army). The said reference in the short history when considered

with the observation that I have made earlier creates doubts in her story.

There is another matter that should be considered. Priyadarshani says that

she was raped twice. But to the doctor she has told that she was raped on 11.1 0.98.

In the short history she has not stated that she was raped twice. There is also

another matter that should be considered when deciding the truthfulness her story.

If she was raped on 18.11.98 as alleged by her in her first complaint, Dr.

Dharmaratne who examined her on 20.11.98 would have found fresh injuries. But

no such fresh injuries were found. This shows that her stand taken up in the first

complaint is false. I have earlier stated that there are serious doubts in her story. In

a case of rape if the story of the prosecutrix is false, no useful purpose will be

served by looking for corroboration because corroborative evidence cannot make a

false story a truthful one. This observation, in my view, applies to the facts of this

case.

I have earlier pointed out that her evidence had not been supported by

medical evidence. Further her evidence has not been corroborated by any other

evidence. In a case of rape it is dangerous to convict an accused on an

uncorroborated testimony of the woman. One of the reasons is that the charge of

8

rape is the easiest charge that a woman can make against man in this world. There

are reasons for this contention. Some of them may be set out below:

1. A woman can take advantage of a previous sexual intercourse which she had

with somebody in order to grab money from the man against whom the

allegation was being made when he had not done any sexual act to the

woman.

2. A woman who willingly engages in sexual intercourse with a man can later

claim it to be a case of rape when the sexual act is seen by a third party or

when a close relation comes to know about the sexual intercourse.

3. A woman who willingly engages in sexual intercourse with a man can later

claim that sexual intercourse was committed against her will when the

promise given prior to sexual intercourse was not fulfilled.

In my view ground No.1 above applies to the facts of this case.

These are some of the reasons why it is dangerous to convict an accused

in a case of rape on an uncorroborated testimony of the woman. But if she speaks

the truth and gives convincing evidence, court can convict the accused on an

uncorroborated testimony of the victim in a case of rape. This view is supported by

the judgment of Justice Ranjith Dheerarathne in the case of Sunil and others Vs the

The Attorney General [1986] 1 SLR 230 wherein His Lordship held thus: "It is

very dangerous to act on the uncorroborated testimony of a woman victim of a sex

offence but if her evidence was convincing such evidence could be acted on even

in the absence of corroboration."

The accused appellant in this case, in his evidence, denied the charge.

I have earlier held that there were senous doubts in the story of

Priyadarshani and her story did not satisfy the test of probability. In my view it is

very dangerous to act on her evidence. When I consider the above matters, I hold

9

the view that the prosecution has not proved its case beyond reasonable doubt. I

therefore set aside the conviction and the sentence and acquit the accused appellant

of the charge levelled against him.

Appeal allowed.

PWDC Jayathilake

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Judge of the Court of Appeal.