==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DECMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Case No: C.A. 911 I 98 F D.C. Kegalle Case No. 1492/L

Warsa Devayalage Babanis of Gabbala , Rambukkana

Plaintiff (1) Rajakandathagedara Lamindu of Gabbala , Rambukkana (dead) (1A) Moratannalage Kiri of

Belgodakanda, Walalgoda, Kosgolla, Katupitiya,Kurunegala (1B) Moratannalage Punchi of

Nehelgama, Kotawella (1C) Moratannalage Baby Nona of

4th mile post, Kalugalla (1D) Moratannalage Podi Nona of

No;254, Wehara, Kurunegala (1E) Moratannalage Albi Nona of

Udainguruwatta, lnguruwatta, Kotawella, Gabbala, Rambukkana (1F) Moratannalage Jane Nona of

Heenatiwela, Gabbala, Rambukkana (1G) Moratannalage Premaratne (1H) Moratannalage Dayawathi

(1I) Moratannalage Piyasena

Substituted- Defendants (2) Moratannalage Piyasena all of Walpola, Kotawella, Gabbala, Rambukkana

Defendants And Between Warsa Devayalage Babanis of Gabbala , Rambukkana (deceased)

Plaintiff –Appellant

Warsa Devayalage Somawathie of Gabbala , Rambukkana

Substituted Plaintiff –Appellant Vs. (1A) Moratannalage Kiri of

Belgodakanda, Walalgoda, Kosgolla, Katupitiya,Kurunegala (1B) Moratannalage Punchi of

Nehelgama, Kotawella (1C) Moratannalage Baby Nona of

4th mile post, Kalugalla (1D) Moratannalage Podi Nona of

No;254, Wehara, Kurunegala

(1E) Moratannalage Albi Nona of

Udainguruwatta, Inguruwatta, Kotawella, Gabbala, Rambukkana (1F) Moratannalage Jane Nona of

Heenatiwela, Gabbala, Rambukkana (1G) Moratannalage Premaratne (1H) Moratannalage Dayawathi (11) Moratannalage Piyasena

Substituted- Defendants- Respondent (2) Moratannalage Piyasena all of Walpola, Kotawella, Gabbala, Rambukkana

2nd Defendants-Respondent

r

1

C.A. No. 911/98(F) D.C. Kegalle Case No. 1492/L

Before

Counsel

Argued & Decided on :

K. T. Chitrasiri, J.

Niluka Dissanayake for the Substituted-Plaintiff-Appellant.

Channamali Ranatunga for the 1 (g) Defendant-Respondent.

05.02.2013.

********

K.T. Chitrasiri, J.

The plaintiff-appellant had been directed to effect the

substitution in order to substitute the heirs of the deceased 1 b, 1c

and 1e defendant-respondents from the time that the briefs were

ready. When this matter was mentioned on 25.07.2012 and on

02.11.2012, appellant had obtained dates to file substitution papers.

However, the appellant has not filed substitution papers yet.

Counsel for the appellant admits that the appellant has

not taken steps to substitute the heirs of the deceased respondents.

r

2

She further states that the 1 b defendant had died on 19.11.1994

which was a date prior to the delivery of the impugned

judgment.

The aforesaid inaction of the plaintiff-appellant shows

that the appellant is not prosecuting this appeal diligently. Without

substitution being made this appeal cannot be taken up for

hearing. In the circumstances, acting under Rule 34 of the Supreme

Court Rules, this Court makes an order dismissing the appeal with

costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

AKN

t l

l

f I

t f ' f lIII

I

I