==== BLOCKS ==== 

46-47/99(F)

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

Wanniarachchi Kanganange Meraya

Harannagala, Weragoda.

Plaintiff

v.

1. Gurusinghe Gunapala,

Harannagala, Weragoda.

C.A.Case No:- 46-47/99(F)

D.C.Balapitiya Case NO:-1398/l

2. Kaggoda Arachchi Dharmadasa,

Harannagala, Weragoda.

Defendants

AND NOW

l.Gurusinge Gunapala,

Harannagala, Weragoda.

1 st Defendant-Appellant

2. Kaggoda Arachchi Dharmadasa'

Harannagala, Weragoda.

2nd Defendant-Appellant

v.

Wanniarachchi Kanganange Meraya

Harannagala Weragoda.

Plaintiff-Respondent

Before:- H.N.J.Perera,J.

Counsel:-Ranjan Guneratne for the pt Defendant-Appellant

N.I.M. Naleem with Kelum Marasinghe for the 2nd Defendant-

Appellant

Argued On:-24.09.2013

Written Submissions:-l0.12.2013/19.12.2013/21.01.2014

Decided On:-23.07.2015

H.N.J.Perera, J.

The plaintiff-respondent instituted action in the District Court of

Balapitiya praying for a declaration of title to the land described in the

schedule to the plaint as Lot 10 in Plan No.1245A, for the ejectment of the said pt defendant-appellant and for damages. The land was also

shown as Lot lOA and lOB in Plan 915.The encroached portion was shown as lot lOB in the said Plan.

The pt defendant-appellant in his answer claimed that he was the owner of the adjacent Lot 9 shown in plan 3176 prepared by Surveyor

D.G.Mendis marked IVl and that he also possessed Lot lOB which is a part of lot 10 in Plan Pl for over 25 years and had prescribed to it. The 2nd defendant-appellant intervened in the action and claimed lots lOB

and 10C in Plan No.3400 prepared by Surveyor D.G.Mendis marked Y on prescriptive title.

It is the position of the plaintiff-respondent that she is the owner of the land described in the schedule to the plaint and that on or about the 9th

August 1988 entered into the disputed portion of the said land and disputed the title of the plaintiff-respondent to the said land.

It is not in dispute that in Partition action No. 29654 of the District Court of Galle lot 10 in Final Plan NO,1245A marked P1 was allotted to the 3rd

defendant Kariya wasam Masachchi Christian de Silva and Cyril de Alwis

was later substituted in place of the said 3rd defendant deceased and the said lot was sold to one T.P.Podisingho on 03.11.1938 by the Fiscal Conveyance marked P2 and P3 at the trial. Podisingho sold the said land to K.M.Leela Karelenthina Alwis on 19.01.1943 by the deed marked P4 and she on 17.10.1943 sold the said land by deed marked P5 to the

mother of the plaintiff K.L.Podinina. It is the plaintiff's position that her

mother thereafter sold the said property to her on 1972.08.16 by deed marked P6 and she became the owner of the said premises in 1972. Further it was the plaintiff's position that she in 1976 sold half share to one K.H.Jayasekera by deed marked P7 and the said Jayasekera had re-transferred the said half share back to the plaintiff in 1979 by deed

marked P8.

The action from which this appeal lies arises, being a rei vindication

action, the onus was clearly on the plaintiff-respondent to prove how she derived title to the land described in the schedule to the plaint.

In D.A.Wanigaratne V. Juwanis Appuhamy 65 N.L.R 168, it was held that in an action rei vindication the plaintiff should set out his title on the basis on which he claims a declaration of title to the land and must, prove that title against the defendant in the action. The defendant in rei vindication action need not prove anything, still less, his own title. The plaintiff cannot ask for a declaration of title in his favour merely on the

strength that the defendant's title is poor or not established. The plaintiff must prove and establish his title.

The learned District Judge has in his judgment concluded that the

plaintiff-respondent had proved title to the land described in the schedule to the plaint. In his judgment the learned District Judge has very clearly held that by deeds marked P2 to P8 the plaintiff-respondent has

proved her title to the land in dispute. The plaintiff-respondent had

produced deeds marked P2 to P8 to which no objection was taken at the close of the plaintiff-respondent's case. The cursus curiae of the original

civil court followed for more than three decades in this country is that the failure to object to documents, when read at the closure of the case of a particular party would render them as evidence for all purposes of the law .It is clearly seen that the defendant-appellants had not seriously

challenged the ownership of the plaintiff-respondent to the said lot 10 in

Plan 1245A(Pl}.

Willi in his book "Principles of South African Law" (3rd edition) at page

190 discussing the right to possession, states:-

liThe absolute owner of a thing is entitled to claim the possession of it, if

he has the possession he may retain it. If he is illegally deprived of his possession, he may by means of vindication or reclaim recover the

possession from any person in whose possession the thing is found. In a vindicatory action the claimant need merely prove two facts, namely, that he is the owner of the thing and that thing is in the possession of the defendant."

The moment title to the corpus in dispute is proved, like in this case, the

right to possess is presumed. The burden is thus cast on the defendant-appellants to prove that by virtue of an adverse possession they had obtained a title adverse to and independent of the paper title of the plaintiff-respondent.

The pt defendant-appellant In this case filed answer claiming

prescriptive title to a part of the land owned by the plaintiff-respondent.

1

The plaintiff-respondent had proved title to the said lot 10 in Plan 1245A.

The said lot 10 had also been shown as Lot lOA and lOB in Plan 915

prepared by Surveyor R.Chandrasiri marked X. The pt defendant-

appellant claimed lot lOB in Plan 915 on prescriptive title.

The 2nd defendant-appellant claimed prescriptive title to lots lOB and

10C in Plan 3400 prepared by Surveyor D.G.Mendis marked Y at the trial.

The said lots are to the South of Lot 10 and are not the land claimed by the pt defendant-appellant. Both claimed title to lot lOB on prescription.

The two Surveyors who was summoned to give evidence in this case had categorically stated that lot lOB is a portion of lot 10 in Plan marked Pl

which is owned by the plaintiff-respondent.

In sirajudeen and others V. Abbas [1994] 2 Sri L.R 365, it was held that:-

Where a party invokes the provisions of section 3 of the Prescription Ordinance in order to defeat the ownership of an adverse claimant to

immovable property, the burden of proof rests squarely and fairly on him to establish a starting point for his or her acquisition of prescriptive

rights.

As regards the mode of proof of prescriptive possession, mere general c.L.W 112, it was held:-

"Mere statements of a witness, 'I possessed the land' or 'we possessed the land' and 'I planted plantain bushes and also vegetables' are not

sufficient to entitle him to a decree under section 3 of the Prescription Ordinance, nor is the fact of payment of rates by itself proof of

possession for the purposes of this section."

The burden was on the defendant-appellants to prove that by virtue of

an adverse possession they had obtained title to and independent of the paper title of the plaintiff-respondent. According to section 3 of the prescription Ordinance such a possession must be undisturbed,

uninterrupted, adverse to or independent of that of the former possessor and should have lasted for at least ten years before they could transform such possession into prescriptive title. There must be proof that the defendant-appellants occupation of the premises were such

character as is incompatible with the title of the plaintiff-respondent.

The pt defendant-appellant claims prescriptive title to lot lOB in Plan

3176 prepared by Surveyor D.G.Mendis marked lVl. The said plan was prepared at the instance of the pt defendant-appellant. Lot 9 which belonged to the pt defendant-appellant and the lots lOA and 10 B which belonged to the plaintiff-respondent are too shown in the said plan. It

was the position of the pt defendant-appellant that he possessed lot lOB which is to the west and south of lot 9 for over 25 years. The evidence

led in this case clearly establish the fact that lot lOB is a part of lot 10 which belonged to the plaintiff-respondent. The said lot lOB, the

encroached portion is about 3.22 perches. The two Surveyors who gave evidence adverted to the face that lot lOB is a portion of lot 10.

The evidence in this case disclosed the fact that the first defendant-appellant had purchased lot 9 in 16.06.1980. This action had been filed

in 30.08.1988. The pt defendant-appellant's position was that he was

the owner of lot 9 and he possessed lot 9 as well as lot lOB and claimed

prescriptive rights to lot lOB owned by the plaintiff-respondent in this

case. The pt defendant-appellant had claimed that he possessed lot 9

and lOB as one lot from 1942.The learned trial Judge had come to a clear conclusion that lot lOA and lOB remained a separate lot and had refused to accept the position that the pt defendant-appellant had possessed lot 9 and lOB together as a separate lot and has acquired prescriptive title to the said lots. Another fact had been considered by the learned trial Judge in plaintiff-respondent's favour was that when a Jak tree from the

lot 10 belonging to the plaintiff-respondent fell on to the defendant-appellants land lot 9 , the plaintiff had sought permission from the Grama

sevaka to remove the said tree to which the defendant-appellant had not objected.

The learned trial Judge also had considered the evidence that was before

him regarding the buildings marked A and B in lot 9, in plans marked X and 1 Vl, the fact that the eves of the said buildings jut out to lot lOB owned by the plaintiff-respondent. The building marked C is entirely

within the lot 10 owned by the plaintiff-respondent. The plaintiff-respondent had in fact had made a complaint to the police when the pt defendant-appellant laid the foundation for this latrine in 1988.

The learned trial judge had after considering the evidence placed by the

parties before him has come to a clear conclusion that the said lot 10 is owned by the plaintiff and that lot lOB is a part of lot 10 and that the pt

defendant appellant had failed to lead evidence and satisfy court that he had possessed the said lot lOB as a part of lot 9 and had acquired

prescriptive title to the said lot lOB.

The 2nd defendant-appellant who is the owner of the land called

Haraunahala Thotupala Langa and Gangodagederawatte and claimed that lots lOB and 10C in Plan 3400 prepared by Surveyor D.G.Mendis on

prescription. The 2nd defendant-appellant had claimed that he possessed the said lots for more than 50 years. The learned trial Judge had come to the conclusion that the 2nd defendant-appellant had purchased the said

land after the institution of this action in 1990 and that he had no title till then. This action had been filed in 1988 and the 2nd defendant-

appellant had no title to the said land before 1990 and that he has failed to lead independent evidence to prove prescriptive title to the said

lotsl0B and 10C. The learned trial Judge had come to a clear conclusion that the 2nd defendant-appellant had failed to prove that he possessed and acquired prescriptive title to the said lots in dispute.

In my view in the present case there is a significant absence of clear and specific evidence on such acts of possession as would entitle the defendant-appellants to a decree in favour in terms of section 3 of the

Prescription Ordinance. The findings of fact by the learned District Judge are mainly based on the trial Judge's evaluation of facts.

The District Judge has correctly analysed the evidence before him and

has come to the conclusion that the plaintiff-respondent was the owner of lot 10 in Plan 1245A. He had come to a clear conclusion that the pt

and the 2nd defendant-appellants had failed to establish that they have possessed and prescribed to lot lOB as claimed by them. The learned

District Judge has arrived at certain factual matters or has decided on

primary facts. I have considered the entire judgment and see no reason to interfere with the primary facts of this case. Trial Judge has arrived at

a correct conclusion. Appellate Court should not without cogent reasons interfere with primary facts

In M.P.Munasinghe V. C.P.Vidanage 69 N.L.R 98 it was held that the jurisdiction of an appellate court to review the record of the evidence in

order to determine the conclusion reached by the trial Judge upon evidence should stand has to be exercised with caution.

Further in Gunewardene V. Cabral and others (1980) 2 Sri. L.R 220 it was

held that the appellate court will set aside the inferences drawn by the trial Judge only if they amount to findings of fact based on:-

{l)lnadmissible evidence; or

(2)After rejecting admissible and relevant evidence; or

(3)lf the inferences or the conclusions are not rationally possible or

Perverse.

In the case before me I do not see that the findings of the learned District

judge and the inferences drawn by him are vitiated by any of these

considerations. In my view there is no justification for interfering with

the conclusions reached by the learned District Judge which I perceive are warranted by the evidence that was before him.

For the above reasons I see no reason to disturb the judgment of the learned District Judge. Accordingly the appeals of the pt and the 2nd

defendant-appellants are dismissed with costs.

Appeals dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL