==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 237/2013 (Writ)

H.D.J.D.A Samaranayake

40, Singhapura Road,

Chilaw.

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. D.G.M.V. Hapuarachchi

Commissioner General of Excise

Excise Department

No. 34, W.A.D, Ramanayake Mawatha,

Colombo 2.

2. A. Bodaragama

Deputy Commissioner of Excise

(Revenue)

Excise Department

No. 34, W.A.D. Ramanayake Mawatha,

Colombo 2.

3. H. S. S. Lusena

Divisional Secretary,

Divisional Secretariat,

Arachchikattuwa.

4. Kapila Kumarasinghe

Assistant Commissioner of Excise (North

Western Province II),

Office of the Assistant Commissioner of

Excise, Waikkal.

f I It I

IIr1

II t

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDEDON:

GOONERANTE J.

Anil Gooneratne J. &

5. Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

RESPONDENTS

Romesh de Silva P.C with Sugath Caldera for Petitioners

Vikum de Abrew D.S.G., for Respondents

22.11.2013

06.02.2014

2

This is an application for a Writ of Certiorari and Mandamus in a

liquor case where the Petitioner is challenging the refusal to issue a licence, to

the change of location of outlet as described in sub paragraphs (b) & (c) of the

prayer to the petition. The Petitioner ran a business selling beer at the premises

I

fII(

I

Jf

f!I

3

situated at Dematapitiya, Kumarakattuwa. In the manner pleaded in paragraphs

7/8 of the petition, licence was owned by one Chandika and same was transferred

on 30.11.2012 to the Petitioner. The premises where the liquor was sold was not

owned by the Petitioner and as such Petitioner as pleaded in the body of the

petition identified another premises at 85, Mile Post, Puttalam within the

Rajakadaluwa, Divisional Secretariat Division. It is also pleaded that in the hone of

obtaining a liquor licence the Petitioner spent a large sum of money to purchase,

renovate and build the premises in dispute. Petitioner made an application to

shift to the building to carryon his liquor business (P3 - P3(F)) and for its renewal

(P4 to P4(B)).

The learned President's Counsel in his submission emphasized as

regards the material contained in the last paragraph and the last page of

document P3 and emphasis that the necessary approvals had been obtained.

Therefore the officials requested for a report from the 3rd Respondent, as to

whether there were any public protest (P5). Subsequently steps were taken to call

for reports as regards public protests which ultimately resulted in authorities

contemplating to hold an inquiry. I would very briefly refer to protests divulged to

this court and several other aspects of the case, as follows.

IEIII

Ii f f Ir

,rII

r!

4 l

(a) By P6, 3rd Respondent states the Grama Niladari in his report informs that

there were persons objecting. (however Grama Niladari's report not made

available even to court).

(b) Petitioners inquiries reveal that (P7) in fact the persons named in P6 have

no objection.

(c) Letter PI0 indicates (sent by 3

rd Respondent) person referred to in P6 had

not objected in writing. The last paragraph of PI0 indicates that over 100

person have protested but such letter of all of them cannot be sent

(d) By Pll, 4th Respondent directed to cause an inquiry into public protest.

(e) P12 - calling for an inquiry with all the protestors in the office of the Excise

Commissioner on 09.5.2013.

(f) P13 & P14 only one person named in (para 30) was present for an in(quiry

and that person's statement was recorded. No other protester present. As

such all others to appear on 16.5.2013.

(g) PIS, since the Grama Niladari was not present inquiry re-fixed for

23.8.2013.

(h) Letter P17 issued by M.P. and Minister, to Commissioner of Excise to

recommend and issue the licence to Petitioner. P18 letter by

Arachchikattuwa Pradeshiya Sabha indicates that there are no protest by

the public. P19 supports P18 with several signatories indicating that there

are no objections.

There is also an allegation of Mala fides against the 3

rd Respondent and

such allegation, seems to be supported in view of the material contained in

paragraphs 38, 39 & 40 of the petition. However by P2S Petitioner's request had

J IIf I

fII

5

been turned down, mainly for the reason that the 3

rd Respondent had not

recommended the issue of the licence to the Petitioner. Learned President's

Counsel for Petitioner demonstrate to court that the decision in P25 is

illegal/unreasonable/ultra vires etc. and inter alia referred to the contents of

documents 43 - 48 & 52 of the petition and the corresponding paragraphs of the

affidavit.

The learned Deputy Solicitor General on behalf of the Respondents

resisted and challenged the case of the Petitioner more particularly based on

documents 3R1, 3R2 & 3R3. Learned Deputy Solicitor General also referred to the

regulation at P28. What was emphasized is the fact of intimidation by the

Petitioner to obtain signatures of persons to show a favourable result for the

Petitioner. It was also submitted on behalf of the Respondents that by reference

to 3R1- 3R3 several persons had objected, and thereby it was submitted that the

facts are in dispute. It was the contention of the learned Deputy Solicitor General

that when facts are in dispute one cannot resort to the available review

procedure. The learned D.S.G very correctly referred to one of the latest cases on

the subject C.A 1384/05 which was decided by the Court of Appeal and S.C Case

No. 59/2008 which affirmed the Court of Appeal (1384/05) case and dismissed

the appeal of the Appellant. I am very much thankful to learned D.S.G since

6

having perused the above judgment I am able to distinguish those cases from the

case in hand.

C.A. Application 1384/05 and S.c. 59/2008 are considered by this

court, since it relates to the identical and same subject matter, dealt by the

Supreme Court from a judgment of the Court of Appeal. In the said application a

property was purchased and built at a certain point of time and the owner when

he decided to sell the property, it was found that another persons' name had

been entered as owner in the relevant folios maintained in the Land Registry.

Registrar of Lands presented his case according to the relevant folios maintc: 'ned

in the Land Registry, and material placed before Court in the usual way by way of

an affidavit. As such the Appellate Court cannot in such a case and in a Writ

Application call for oral evidence since the procedure prohibits such course of

action. There were major facts that were in dispute and not well suited at all to be

decided by a review procedure. In brief the truth of the matter need to be

decided and examined in a Original Court or at an inquiry held within the

administrative process, or at an inquiry as the case in hand to be held by the

Commissioner of Excise or by an office delegated with power in terms of the

provisions of the Excise Ordinance. As such the case in hand is no comparison to

the above mentioned applications since in those cases the facts were in dispute

I I

\,

f I

~ f IIII I I

~ r 1,

I , i

t IIf II

rI

7

from the outset which could not have been verified by the Court of Appeal, at all.

In the case in hand the authorities concerned relied upon an inquiry process to

enable parties to test each others' truthful position. However this court is of the

view that the inquiry held has not been properly conducted in compliance with

the rules of natural justice and the decision contained in document P25 is an

unreasonable, irrational decision.

In considering all the facts and circumstances of this case, it appears

to this court that a proper all inclusive inquiry had not been held by the

authorities concerned. If the Respondent rely on document 3Rl to 3R3, the

Petitioner should have been confronted or called upon to explain the contents of

3Rl- 3R3 in the best possible way and to his best of knowledge. If there was any

intimidation by the Petitioner, did the authorities concerned verify that aspect or

did the persons who were intimidated seek police assistance? If democracy

prevails and the law is properly enforced in a civil society, people have a

legitimate right to complain of any kind of intimidation to the law enforcement.

Agencies, and also to be protected by law. If this aspect was properly inquired and

if the authorities found that one section of the public oppose the Petitioners and

others support, the inquiring officer would be entitled to act according to his

conscience and deliver an order to the best of his ability even assuming it is

f ! I[II, I ! i

i I i ( II

1I tI

8

erroneous. That would be the point at which one could rely on the premise that

major facts are in dispute and as such the review procedure is not available.

Merely expressing a view that facts are in dispute would not suffice specially

when a dispute is referred for inquiry, and the truth of it not being verified at the

initial stage of the administrative process. Further I note that the statements

recorded at the inquiry inclusive of the petitioner and the protestors (if any) are

not made available to court, in the usual manner. What was the order of the

inquiring officer? Is it only document P2S, from which the decisions of the

inquiring officer emanated? Was documents 3Ri to 3R3 ever placed before the

inquiry and was there any opportunity to have it tested? This court is unable to

find the answers to anyone or more of the above questions based on the

material made available to this court.

In all the facts and circumstances of this application this court is of

the view that a proper inquiry had not been held to decide on the suitability of

the Petitioner's application. Documents P4, Pi0, P12, P13, P14, PiS, PiG, P17, P18

& P19 appears to be favourable documentation or somewhat favourable

documents submitted on behalf of the Petitioner. The manner in which

documents 3Ri to 3R3 surfaced or whether it was produced at the so called

inquiry held by the authorities concerned has not been properly and precisely

II t i !

9

explained. In the light of all material placed before court it is not possible to arrive

at a decision as regards the maintainability of letter P25 in the context of this

case. This court is of the view that the decision if any contained in P25 is

unsupported with material which should in the normal circumstances emanate

from a due inquiry. As such P25 is an unreasonable and an irrational view

expressed by the 1

st & 2

nd Respondents. As such I allow the application only as

regards the later part of sub-paragraph (b) of the prayer to the petition. i.e in the

alternative to quash the decision referred to in letter marked P25.

As regards the Writ of Mandamus, I am of the view that such relief

cannot be granted in the context of this case and in the absence of a proper all

inclusive inquiry being held by the authorities. On that aspect no proper material

has been placed before court to establish a statutory and or a public duty on the

part of the Respondents. Therefore I allow this application only as regards the

later part or the 2

nd limb of sub-paragraph (b) of the prayer to the petition

without costs.

Application allowed as above.

GYS:~~

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

!

\

t

f I ,I

IIIII i l t t •t

1