==== BLOCKS ==== 

\

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for Writ of

Certiorari and Prohibition under and in

terms of Article 140 of the Constitution of

the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

Lanka.

*******

(.A. (Writ) Application No.339/2009

1

1. Shehan Calistus Puvinayagam of No. J/2/46, Green Terrace Housing Scheme, Pittugala, Malambe.

2. Lloyd Desmond Christopher of Southern Sun No. J/2/27, Green Terrace Housing Scheme, Pittugala, Malabe.

3. Obeysiriwardena Arachchige Lionel OfJ/2/23, Green Terrace Housing Scheme, Pittugala, Malambe.

PETITIONER

Vs

1. The Commissioner General of Agrarian Development, Office of the Commissioner General of Agrarian Development, No. 42, Sir Marcus Fernando Mawatha, Colombo 07.

2

2. Additional Commissioner General of Agrarian Development, Office of the Commissioner General of Agrarian Development, No.42, Sir Marcus Fernando Mawatha, Colombo 07.

3. K.H.S. Krishanthi Assistant Commissioner of Agrarian Development, Office of the Assistant Commissioner of Agrarian Development Colombo, No. 336, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Mawatha, Colombo 10.

4. Saroja Jeewani Balasuriya, Agrarian Development Officer, Agrarian Development Office, Malambe.

5. Ranasinghe Arachchige Manjula Prasanna, Agricultural Research and Production Assistant-Malabe East, Agrarian Development Office Malambe and also at No.l0l,Kahantota Road, Malambe.

6. Deeptha Panagoda, Secretary, Farmers' Association Malambe East, No.115fl, Kahantoa Road, Malambe.

7. Vithanage Don Ranaraja, No. 232, Kahantota Road, Malambe.

8. Farmers' Association Malambe East, No.115fl, Kahantota Road, Malambe.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

Oeepali Wijesundera J.

9. Kelsey Development (Pvt) Ltd, No.165, Kynsey Road, Colombo 08.

RESPONDENTS

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

: S.N. Vijithsinghe with

L. Senavirathne for the

Petitioners.

Nihal Fernando PC with Amith

Silva for the 9th Respondent.

Yuresha Fernando SC for the 1st

to 5th Respondents.

: 13th March, 2014.

: 04th July, 2014.

The petitioners have filed this application praying for a writ of

Certiorari to quash the decision taken by the 3rd respondent on

29/04/2009 marked and produced as P13 and P14. And also a writ of

3

prohibition to prohibit the 1st to th respondents from using Lot 73 of Plan

No. 1284 as a road way to the paddy fields adjoining their land.

The 9th respondent has purchased a large land, blocked it out and

called it 'Green Terrace' and sold the built houses. The petitioners are

some of the persons who bought houses in this housing scheme. These

blocks of land are depicted in Plan No. 1284 dated 02/08/1993 marked

as 9R1 and 1f)1. The dispute is regarding the use of Lot 73 in the said

plan.

The petitioner's argument was that the said Lot 73 is exclusively

reserved for the use of the housing scheme and not for the farmers' of

the adjoining land and that ever since they came into occupation of the

land it was only used by the people of the housing scheme.

The 3rd respondent acting on a complaint made by a person

cultivating the adjoining land acting under the Agrarian Development Act

No.46 of 2000 has directed that there is a roadway with an access point

to the adjoining paddy land. The petitioners and the 9th respondent

argued that the 3rd respondent has not referred to any material upon

which she has based her findings and has based her direction on the

4

letter marked as 1 R1 dated 23/08/1993. The petitioners stated that this

roadway was drawn as Lot 73 in the plan marked 9R1 and that there

was no roadway prior to that and that the adjoining paddy land is

separated by a ditch, which is not accessible through the housing

scheme. They further stated that the Kaduwela Pradeshiya Sabha has

approved their plan to block out the said land and that the said roadway

was not acquired by the Kaduwela Pradeshiya Sabha.

The petitioners further stated that the 3rd respondent did not have

jurisdiction to act under Sec. 90 of the Agrarian Development Act. The

petitioners argued that on the inquiry date the complainant did not come

for the inquiry which makes the decision null and void.

15t to 8th respondents argument was that the said act provides the

Commissioner General powers to declare any extent of land as an

agricultural land and that Sec. 28 describes the vide powers vested in

the Commissioner General. The respondents stated that the 3

rd

respondent acted on the complaint made by the yth respondent and that

Sec. 90 makes provision to hold an inquiry. The said inquiry was

conducted after the field visit by the 3rd respondent.

5

9R1 plan No. 1284 which is dated 02/08/1993 was made after the

Kaduwela Pradeshiya Sabha granted permission to the 9th respondent

to block out the said land. By 1 R1 the Kaduwela Pradeshiya Sabha has

informed the 9th respondent that on a previous discussion they had, the

9th respondent has agreed to reserve a road access to the paddy field

adjoining the said housing scheme. This document shows that the 9th

respondent has agreed not to block the roadway prior to blocking out the

land and obtained permission from the Kaduwela Pradeshiya Sabha to

block out the said land. The petitioners were warned not to block the

road way by the Assistant Commissioner of Agrarian Development

(5E>9). The 3rd respondent after a field inspection had summoned all

parties for the inquiry and after recording their statements only has

made a direction, this is marked as P14 and the petitioners are seeking

to quash the said findings. The respondent has come to this finding after

recording statements and prior to that inspected the said land in the

presence of the petitioners. One can not say the 3rd respondent has

gone beyond the powers conferred by Sec. 90 of the said act.

Sec. 90 reads thus;

90 (1) Where a complaint is made to the Commissioner

General by any owner cultivator or occupier of agricultural

land that any person is interfering with or attempting to

interfere with the cultivation rights, threshing rights, rights

6

of using a threshing floor, the right of removing agricultural

produce or the right to the use of an agricultural road of

such owner cultivator or occupier, the Commissioner -

General after inquiry may if he is satisfied that such

interference or attempted interference will result in damage

or loss of crop or livestock, issue an order on such person

cultivator or occupier requiring him to comply with such

directions as may be specified in such order necessary for

the protection of such rights:

P13 the other document the petitioner is seeking to quash is a

notice sent to the petitioner stating that if he does not stop the

obstructions action will be taken against him under Sec. 90 of the said

Act. It states that if he has obstructed the said roadway to remove the

obstructions if not legal action will be taken against him under Sec. 90.

This was done prior to P14, which is the procedure to follow under the

said act. The respondents have not violated the laws of natural justice

by sending this notice to the petitioner who was afforded an opportunity

to state his case.

7 ,

I I

I

I

I I

Document marked P14 is the proceedings of the inquiry

held at Agrarian Development Council where the evidence of the

petitioners and some officers are recorded. This is not a document

which can be quashed.

The petitioners have prayed to quash P14 which include the entire

proceeding of the inquiry and not only the finding of the 3rd respondent.

P13 is a legal document made under the relevant sections of the

Agrarian Development Act which can not be said is illegal.

For the afore stated reason this court see no reason to grant the

relief prayed for in the petition. The petition is dismissed with costs fixed

at Rs. 50,0001=

~ ~~J,

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

8