==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an appeal under sec.

331 of the Code of Criminal Procedure

Act No 15 of 1979 as amended.

C.A. 18/2009

H.C. Anuradhapura 148/2002

1 Marasinghe Arachchilage Karunaratne

2 Wanasinghe Arachchilage Ranjith

Wickremaratne

Accused-Appellants

Vs.

The Attorney General

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

Before : Rohini Marasinghe, J &

H.N.J.Perera, J.

Counsel : lndika Mallawarachchi for the Appellants

Dilan Ratnayake SSC for Attorney General

Argued on : 04.10.2012

ti

Decided on: 08.02.2013

H N.J.Perera J.

The 1st and the 2nd accused appellants were indicted under

section 364 (2) (g) of the Penal Code as amended by act no 22 of 1995 for

committing Gang rape on Herath Bandage Kalyani Herath on or about the 13th

of August 1996.

The accused appellants pleaded not guilty to the indictment and

thereafter, after trial the Learned High Court Judge convicted and sentenced

each accused appellant for 20 years R.I. and a fine of Rs 10,000/=. Each

accused was also ordered to pay compensation in the sum of Rs 200,000/= to

the prosecutrix in default of which a sentence of 4 years R.I. was imposed on

them.

Being aggrieved by the said conviction and sentence the

appellants have preferred this appeal to this court challenging the said

conviction and sentence imposed on the appellants by the Learned Trial Judge.

At the stage of argument the counsel for the accused relied on two

main grounds of appeal which are as follows;

(1) Conviction is unsafe in view of the fact that the evidence

relating to the identification of the accused appellants is

wholly unsatisfactory and unreliable

(2) The Learned Trial Judge failed to evaluate the evidence of

the prosecution witnesses on the correct perspective

thereby failing to address her mind to the serious

infirmities in the identification evidence.

(3) Prosecution case does not warrant the application of the

Ellenborough principle

The facts pertaining to this case and the background to the incident may be

set out as follows;

According to witness Kalyani on the day in question namely 13.08.1996, her

husband had been at work and she had been sleeping with her nephew

Ratnasiri and the two children. Around 1 a.m. she had heard the utterances of

obscenities and sensed the flash of a torch light. This witness had further

testified that she heard someone uttering obscenities from the direction of

the window which was adjacent to her bed and thought that the voice was of

the 1st accused. Witness had flashed her torch in the direction of the window

and had seen the 1st accused whose face had been covered with a red cloth.

She had further testified that there was another person standing by the other

window whose face had been covered with a black cloth. This witness had

further testified that the 2nd accused namely Ranjith had climbed the tiled

roof and had tried to dislodge a tile and had thereafter threatened her to

open the door at which point she had opened the door as she had been

terrified. Witness Kalyani had further stated that thereafter the person who

was standing near the window had pulled her by her hand and dragged her

outside and placed her on the ground and committed an act of rape at the

point of knife. The first accused had thereafter called out to the 2nd accused

by name referring to him as Ranjith .This witness further testified that the 2nd

accused too had raped her at the point of a knife and both accused had

thereafter fled.

For the purpose of this appeal I am of the view that it would be sufficient to

deal with the most important ground of appeal raised by the counsel for the

appellants, is whether the prosecution had established the identity of the

accused appellants beyond reasonable doubt.

Witness Kalyani had testified that she identified the 1st accused by his voice.

Further she had admitted in her evidence that she had not spoken to the 1st

accused before in her life. No evidence had been led at the trial as to how

familiar she was with regard to the voice of the 1st accused apart from the

evidence to the effect the she had heard him speaking on the road .It is the

contention of the counsel for the appellants that the prosecution had failed

to elicit any evidence with regard to the familiarity of the voice of the 1st

accused by the said witness.

Both witnesses have testified that both accused had their faces fully covered

with a cloth. According to the evidence of witness Kalyani she had never

spoken or had any dealings with the accused before. Therefore one has to be

alert and careful in accepting her evidence as it could be an afterthought. The

Learned Trial Judge must be satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that the

accused were correctly identified and if not give the benefit of the doubt to

the accused. The Trial Judge must examine closely the circumstances under

which the identification came to be made and the means of identification. In

the instant case identification was made under difficult circumstances.

Both witnesses had very categorically testified that both accused had their

faces covered with cloths and they do not testify that the cloths had come out

enabling them to identify the accused.

I find that although the identification of the 1st accused appellant was made

by voice, that the witness has never spoken to the accused before and no

evidence had been led at the trial with regard to the familiarity of the voice of

the 1st accused by the said witnesses and the opportunities the witnesses had

to be familiar with the voice. The incident had taken place at 1 a.m. early

morning when it was dark and identification of the 1st accused was made

under difficult circumstances with the aid of a torch light. The 2nd accused had

been identified because his name was mentioned by the 1st accused at the

time of the incident. The evidence given by the witness Kalyani as to the

identity of the 1st and 2nd accused therefore is very weak and unreliable and

creates a doubt as to whether in fact the 1st accused was properly identified

by the said witness. The main witness Kalyani had further stated that she was

able to identify the 2nd accused as the 1st accused mentioned his name as

Ranjith. According to witness Kalyani the 2nd accused name is Ranjith. Both

witnesses have testified that both accused appellants had their faces fully

covered with a cloth. Learned Counsel for the appellants next contended in

the said circumstances it is fair to assume that the voices may have been

blurry and incoherent and a question arises as to whether the witness was

able to identify the voice of the 1st accused appellant to whom she had never

spoken to beyond reasonable doubt. The prosecution had further failed to

lead any evidence to establish that there is only the 2nd accused by that name

in that village. The counsel for the accused appellants had brought to the

notice of this court several judgments relating to voice identification. Davies

Vs The Crown [2004] EWCA 2521, Rohan Taylor and Others Vs R SCCA No50-

53/1991, R Vs Hersey [1998] Crim L.R.281, R Vs Gummerson and Steadman

[1999] Crim L.R. 680, R Vs Roberts [2000] Crim L.R.183.1n all these cases it

f

r

~II'l'£i

I

It

f ' \ItIl

had been extensively considered and clearly laid down as to how a court

should consider evidence of voice identification. The prosecution has to prove

beyond reasonable doubt that it was the voice of 1st accused and nobody

else. There cannot be a doubt and the evidence had to be very convincing and

reliable. I am of the view that the purported voice identification by the said

witness is wholly unsafe, unreliable and unsatisfactory. Having considered the

unsatisfactory nature of the evidence of these witnesses I am of the view that

the evidence led at the trial in this case is not sufficient to establish the

identity of the accused to the required standard, that is beyond reasonable

doubt.

In view of the conclusions I have already arrived at and for the reasons

mentioned in the foregoing paragraphs of the judgment I find that it would be

futile and redundant to embark on a useless exercise in dealing with the rest

of the grounds of appeal taken by the counsel for the accused appellants.

Therefore I set aside the findings, convictions and the sentences imposed on

the accused appellants and acquit and discharge them from the charges.

Appeals allowed

Rohini Marasighe, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL