==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Jawahirsha Mohamed Hanish alias Anish

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

CA. 228/2011

H.C. Colombo 634/2001

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDENT

R. W. Ranahewa with Rasadari Jayarathne

for the Accused-Appellant

Chethiya Goonesekera D.S.G. for the Complainant-Respondent

03.06.2014

07.08.2014

1

,;

~ 1t¥,i![

!I

i

!! II

2

GOONERATNE J.

The Accused-Appellant was indicted in the High Court of Colombo, in

terms of the Poisons, Opium & Dangerous Drugs Ordinance for possession of

3.7 grams of Heroin on or about 09.01.1999. The Accused-Appellant was

absconding after indictment was served and on being released on bail. Trial

against the Accused was held in absentia according to Section 241 of the Code

of Criminal Procedure Act. He was convicted on 5.6.2006. Perusal of the High

Court brief, I find that an application was made by the Accused-Appellant after

conviction to re-hear the case afresh to grant him an opportunity to have an

inter partes trial. However the learned High Court Judge by the order of

27.9.2011 refused the above application. The prosecution case very briefly is

as follows.

On or about 09.01.1999 sub-Inspector of Police Liyanage of the

Narcotics Bureau received information from a private informant about

trafficking of heroin. A note had been made about the information received

from the private informant in his pocket note book. Thereafter he organized

the police party and took all necessary items/instrument required for the raid

!I

~ I

3

and proceeded with the informant towards Panchikawatte and as shown by

the informant a person called 'Kamaldeen' was taken into custody, and he had

in his possession a certain quantity of heroin. The Narcotics Team having

questioned suspect Kamaldeen, was able to get information about another

person who was the Accused-Appellant dealing with heroin, in the Dehiwela

area. Thereafter the entire team proceeded to Dehiwela and in the Attidiya

area as described and stated by the above named suspect. Having come to

Attidiya the police party proceeded on foot and came near a house

surrounded by a parapet wall. The police party entered the premises and in

the rear side of the house detected a person with an aluminium plate, mixing

some powder seated on a top of a drain. Police party accosted the person and

found that it was heroin on the plate and took him into custody. Thereafter

usual official steps had been taken to seal the production and send it to the

Government Analyst. Evidence of Sub-Inspector, Liyanage had been

corroborated by others in the police team. We cannot find the chain of

evidence broken, from the time of arrest to sending the heroin parcel to the

Government Analyst. Accordingly Judgment was entered by the learned High

Court Judge.

[

i

I!!

ff

4

The Accused-Appellant was convicted and sentenced in absentia. An

attempt had been made earlier in the High court itself to get the Judgment set

aside, but the learned High Court Judge after inquiry refused such application,

not being satisfied of the bona fides of the Accused-Appellant and the learned

High Court Judge being satisfied that the Accused-Appellant is absconding

made order on 27.9.2011 refusing such application. When a trial is held in

absentia court has to resort to the provisions contained in Section 241 or party

concerned should move by way of revision. Appellant has not succeeded in any

attempt to resort to the available provisions of law. It was the position of

learned counsel for the Accused-Appellant that his client was not in a position

to be in Sri Lanka since he was tried for another offence in a court in Bombay,

India. (Journal Entry of 23.8.2004). In the Petition of Appeal filed in this court

some grounds are urged in para 5 of same. It is also doubtful whether the

Appellant has a right of appeal when the High Court has made Order in terms

of Section 241 and a Judgment entered accordingly. Learned counsel for

Appellant has not satisfied this court in any respect to get the Judgment of the

learned High Court Judge vacated. Learned Deputy Solicitor General drew the

fi

[,I

5

attention of this court of the provisions contained in Section 241(3) of the

Code. Further the Accused-Appellant failed to inform the High Court when he

left the Island.

This court does not wish to interfere with the conviction and

sentence of the learned High Court Judge. We affirm the conviction and

sentence and proceed to dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

I! II1