==== BLOCKS ==== 

j I i J I

I I

j 1 !

-l-

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA Application No. (PH C) 52/2008

An application made under the Court of Appeal (Procedure for Appeals from High Court) Rule No. 5(1) made under Article

154(3) of the Constitution.

High Court of Badulla HCRA 105/2005 Magistrate Court No. 60182

K.M. Srimathie "Sri Kanthi", Indigahadowa Lunuwatte.

Defendant- Petitioner - Appellant- Petitioner

Vs.

1. Provincial Secretary Provincial Secretariat Office Uva Paranagama

2. Hon. Attorney General Attorney General's Department Colombo 12.

3. The Manager Bank of Ceylon Lunuwatte

Plaintiff-Respondent - Respondent-Respondent

\

i

·1 I j .1 t « ! !

~ I I I

I I I I I I ! I I ! I I I ! I I

I

BEFORE

COUNSEL:

Argued on

Decided on

-2-

K. T. Chitrasiri, J

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne, J.

Sajeevi Siriwardena

For the Petitioner

Nayomi Kahawita, SSC.

For the Respondents

27.10.2014

13.03.2015

Malinie Gunaratne, J.

The Plaintiff - Respondent - Respondent (hereinafter referred to as

the Respondent) instituted proceedings against the Defendant - Petitioner-

Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Petitioner) in the Magistrate's Court

of Welimada under the case No.60182/2005, in terms of Section 5 of the

State Lands (Recovery of Possession) Act No.7 of 1979 (as amended). It

was filed on 2ih July 2004, seeking for an order from the Magistrate's Court

ejecting the Petitioner from the premises morefully described in the schedule

to the said application. The learned Magistrate pronounced the Order,dated

14/06/2005 granting the relief sought by the Respondent and made Order

-3-

ejecting the Petitioner from the premises morefully described in the schedule

to the said application.

Being aggrieved by the said Order of the learned Magistrate, the

Petitioner preferred the Application dated 22nd July 2005, that bears the No.

105/2005, to the High Court of Badulla, seeking that the Order of the

learned Magistrate be revised. The learned High Court Judge pronounced

the judgment dated 24th March 2007, by affirming the Order of the learned

Magistrate and dismissed the Petitioner's application. The Petitioner has

filed an Appeal in this Court to set aside the said Order of the learned High

Court Judge ofBadulla.

Pending the said Appeal, the 1 st Respondent by way of a motion has

moved the Magistrate's Court for an order to eject the Petitioner from the

land depicted as Lot 299 of the Plan No. FVP 438. The learned Magistrate

has ordered to eject the Petitioner from the above land. Being aggrieved by

the said Order of the learned Magistrate, the Petitioner preferred an

application No. HCRA 19/2010 to the High Court of Badulla, seeking to

revise the Order of the learned Magistrate. The learned High Court Judge

pronounced the order dated 26/07/2012, by affirming the Order of the

learned Magistrate and dismissed the Petitioner's application. It is relevant

to note that the Petitioner had not filed any appeal against the aforesaid

Order of the High Court of Badulla delivered on 26/07/2012 in Case No.

HCRA 19/2010. Hence, the Order dated 26/07/2012 should prevail.

i I

~ ! i I i I I I I I I

f I I I I

-4-

In the instant application the Petitioner is seeking to set aside and

vacate the Order of the learned Magistrate of Welimada dated 15.12.2009

and to stay the execution of the Order dated 15th December 2009 of the

learned Magistrate of Welimada, until the final determination of the Appeal

in this Court.

When this case was called on 2ih October 2014, to support for

interim relief referred to in sub paragraph (b) of the prayer to the Petition,

the learned State Counsel objected to the Petitioner's application and

submitted that the Petitioner is estopped from canvassing the validity of the

Order made by the learned Magistrate dated 15.12.2009 in the instant

application, which bears the No. PHC 52/2008, to set aside the Order of the

Provincial High Court of Badulla in the case No. HCRA 105/2005.

She further submitted, at the time of filing the aforesaid Revision

Application (HCRA 105/2005) the Petitioner had been dispossessed from

the State Land consequent to the execution of the ejection order dated

14/06/2005. Nevertheless, the Petitioner had not disclosed the fact

submitted by the State Counsel. It is a material suppression of fact that was

within her knowledge at the time she filed the revision application.

Therefore the Petitioner had deliberately deviated from the solemn principle

of utmost good faith which is ex facie demonstrative of the Petitioner's

unmeritorious conduct.

I i , I • j ! J f ! j I 1 I I I I

-5-

The learned State Counsel further submitted, that the instant

application does not properly invoke or stipulate the provisions of the law

under which it has been tendered. Accordingly, she submitted that it is

misconceived and vexatious and thus the Petition be dismissed in limine.

It is significant to note that the Petitioner's Counsel has not addressed

the aforesaid issues. The gist of the submissions of the learned Counsel for

the Petitioner is, when there is an Appeal before this Court, the original

Court's Order would be automatically stayed and therefore the execution of

writ also must be stayed.

Nevertheless, in the written submissions filed in this Court by the

Petitioner's Counsel, he has admitted, that mere lodging of an Appeal

against a judgment of a High Court in the exercise of its Revisionary

Powers, the Court of Appeal does not automatically stay the execution of

the Order of a High Court. (Jayantha W. Gunasekara alias Kananke

Dammadinna vs. Jayatissa W. Gunasekara C.A (PHC) APN 17/2006,

Nandawathie vs. Mahindasena C A (PHC) 242/06.

In view of the decisions mentioned above I hold that there is no merit

of his submission made on that issue by the Petitioner's Counsel.

The crucial question that now arises for consideration is whether the

Petitioner is estopped from canvassing the validity of the Order made by

the learned Magistrate dated 15112/2009. It is relevant to note that the same

iiI

I!

I

f

I

1 -6-

Order had been canvassed and sought to be revised in a Revision

Application filed by the Petitioner in the case No. HCRA 19/2010. The

High Court Judge of Badulla made an order on 26/07/2012, affirming the

eviction order dated 14/06/2005 as well as the consequent order of

1511212009. I am of the view, since there is no Appeal filed against that

order, the Order dated 26/07/2012 should prevail.

Apart from that, the Petitioner does not properly invoke or stipulate

under which provision of law or rule that this application has been filed. In

this instance therefore on the admitted facts I am of the view that the

Petitioner is not entitled to make this application.

I now tum to the 2nd issue argued on behalf of the Respondents

regarding suppression of all material facts. In filing the present application

in the Court of Appeal Registry, the Petitioner was under a duty to disclose

all material facts to this Court for this Court to arrive at a correct

adjudication on the issues.

In the decision in Alphonso Appuhamy vs. Hettiaratchi 77 N.L.R.

121, Justice Pathirana held that when a party is seeking a relief from this

Court upon an application, he enters into a contractual obligation with the

Court when he files an application in the registry and in terms of that

contractual obligation he is required to disclose all material facts fully and

frankly to this Court.

! I I .! !

,1 1 I

I agree

-7-

It is manifestly clear that the Petitioner has been remiss in duty and

has failed to carry out its imperative legal duty and obligation to Court. In

such circumstances, Justice Pathirana ruled that the Court is entitled to raise

this matter in limine and dismiss the application without investigating into

the merits of the application.

The necessity of full and fair disclosure of all the material facts to be

placed before the Court when an application is made and the process of the

Court is invoked, I hold that the Petitioner has failed to make a full and

frank disclosure of all material facts to Court and the Petitioner has been

remiss in complying with the aforesaid contractual obligation to Court.

In the above circumstances, I am of the view that there is no necessity

to consider with regard to the other matters.

In all the facts and circumstances stated above, I refuse the application

made in sub paragraph (b) of the prayer to the Petition.

Application for Stay Order is rce.d~~

JUDGE OF THE CO OF APPEAL ....

J~ lY' .. -----

COURT OF APPEAL