==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI

LANKA

C.A.Revision Application No. 262/2006

D.C.Colombo No. 19202/P

BEFORE: Deepali Wijesundera J., and

M.M.A.Gaffoor J

W.Nimalawathie

76/6 Makola Road,

Kiribathgoda.Kelaniya

Petitioner

Vs

1. P.D.K.Perera Kalugampitiya watta, Gonawala Kelaniya

Plaintiff-Respondent

2. P.V.V.Perera 169/1, Makola Road, Kiribathgoda,Kelaniya

Defendant Respondent

COUNSEL: J.M.Wijebandara with N.Sureschandra and S.Wickremasinghe

for the Petitioner.

Mudithara Premachandra for the Defendant Respondent

ARGUED ON: 10.02.2015

Decided on: 07.05.2015

2

Gaffoor J.,

This is a Revision Application in which the Petitioner is seeking to set

aside the interlocutory decree entered on 23.10.2003 and the final

decree entered on 21.04.2004 in the District Cout of Colombo in

case No. 19202/P. The Petitioner in this application was not a party

to the partition case, but the Plaintiff Respondent and the Defendant

Respondent are the parties before the original court.

The Petitioner states in paragraph 18 of the Petition that-

a} No title was disclosed by the by the Plaintiff;

b) The Plaintiff relied her title on a Deed of Declaration

executed in 2000 and the Defendant had admitted it;

c} There was no contest between the parties;

d} Plaintiff has not taken steps to notice the Petitioner;

e) After obtaining the decree, the Respondent without moving

-'). for execution of the decree had sought an order in the

Magistrate's Court under Section 66 of the Primary Courts

P roced u re Act;

Wherefore she prays for the following, inter alia, reliefs set out in the

Petition, namely:

i} To set aside the said interlocutory decree and the final decree

entered by the District Court;

3

ii) To make order allowing the Petitioner to enter into the case

and file statement of claim;

iii) To direct the District Judge to have a trial de novo;

iv) To stay the execution of the writ;

EXCEPTIONAL CIRCUMSTANCES AND LACHES

Revision is a discretionary remedy granted by Court but no one can

invoke the revisionary jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal as a matter

of right. Under normal circumstances revisionary relief will not be

granted if there exists an alternative remedy. It is settled law that the

exercise of the revisionary powers of the Appellate Courts is confined

to cases in which exceptional circumstances exist warranting its

intervention. See Hotel Galaxy (Pvt)Ltd., vs Mercantile Hotels

Management Ltd., 1987 (l)iSri Lanka Law Reports page 5.

It must be noted that the Petitioner has not averred any special

circumstances in her petition warranting the intervention of this

Court to grant her the reliefs prayed for.

In the case of Bank of Ceylon vs Kaleel and others 2004 (1) Sri L.R

page 284, it was held by this court that "the court will not interfere by

way of eviction when the law has given the Plaintiff-Petitioner an

alternative remedy under Section 754(2)J and when the Plaintiff has

I

riI

rI II

f Jri

4

not shown the existence of exceptional circumstances warranting the

exercise of revisionary jurisdiction. N

The interlocutory decree and the final decree had been entered in

the District Court on 23.10.2002 and on 21.04.2004 respectively. But

this application in Revision has been filed on 10th February 2006, i.e.

after nearly two years.

The conspicuous delay makes the Petitioner guilty of laches. The

Petitioner herself says in her petition that she became aware of the

existence of the partition case only on 27.06.2005 at the Kelaniya

Police Station. It also reveals that the documents marked P10 to P13

filed with the petition had been obtained by the Petitioner from the

District Court office on 11.07.2005. Even soon thereafter the

Petitioner has not taken steps to file this revision application. The

Petitioner has not given any reason for this inordinate delay. "In an

application for Revision it is necessary to urge exceptional

,. circumstances warranting the interference of this Court by way of

revision. Filing an application by way of revision to set aside an order

made by the District Court 31'2 years before the institution of the

revision application is considered as inordinate delay and the

application is dismissed on the ground of laches." See

Lokuthuttiripitiyage Nandawathie vs M.D.Gunawathie and others

C.A.769/2000 - D.C. Mt.Lavinia 33/92/P. The Defendant Respondent

contends in her petition that the corpus in the partition action had

been surveyed on two occasions by the Court Commissioner and the

5

~ .

Petitioner did not make any objection to the survey and did not

intervene in the case even though she was aware of the pendency of

the partition case in court. All notices were exhibited at the Grama

Sevaka Office of the area. As such, it appears that the Petitioner was

aware of the partition action pending in the District Court but she

had not made her appearance in the case. As the petitioner has failed

to give adequate reasons for her inordinate delay in making this

belated application in revision, I am of the view that this application

must be dismissed on the ground of laches.

The other matter I have to consider in relation to her laches is the

Primary Court case. When the parties were produced before the

Magistrate's Court by the Kelaniys Police in case No. 78555/2, the

learned Magistrate on 24.10.2005 had made an order dismissing the

case on the ground that the land in dispute could not be identified

and the parties were advised to seek their rights in instituting a civil

action. Even after this order was made on 24.10.2005, the Petitioner

has failed to seek proper remedy either in the District Court or in this

Court. Non-execution of the decree entered in the partition action is

not a valid ground for her inaction.

FINALITY OF THE PARTITION DECREE

The proposition that, that a decree entered in a partition action is a

decree in rem and it binds the whole world is manifest from the

provisions of Section 48(1) of the Partition Act No. 21 of 1977 .. 10

\

.. 6

Odiris Appuhamy vs Caroline Nona 66 NLR 241 Basnayake c.J

analysed the three sub-sections 1, 2 and 3 of Section 48 of the

Partition Act and stated as follows:

liThe three sub-sections taken collectively indicate that

notwithstanding -

a) any omission or defect of procedureJ or

b) in the proof of title adduced before the courtJ or

c) the fact that all persons concerned are not parties to the partition

action;

the decrees are final and conclusive against all persons whomsoever

except against a person who has not been a party 9to the partition

action and claims a title to the land independently of the decree.

Such a person must assert his claim in a separate action and can only

succeed if-

a) he proves that the decree had been entered by a court without·

competent jurisdiction; or

b) that the partition action has not been duly registered as a lis

pendens;

The present claim is one to be added as a party to the partition action

and does not fall within the ambit of that provision. The District Judge

has no power to set aside his own decree".

7

It is contended on behalf of the Petitioner that the decree entered in

this case is fraudulent or collusive. But this contention is untenable

in view of the provisions in section 48(3} of the Partition Law No.21

of 1977, which states:

'The interlocutory decree and the final decree of partition

entered in a partition action shajrh~v~ the final and co~~j~sive

effect declared by sub-section (1) of this section

notwithstanding the provisions of Section 44 of the Evidence

Ordinance, and accordingly such provision shall not apply to

such decrees.' In terms of this provision, even if a decree in a

partition action was obtained fraudulently or collusively, the

decree cannot be impeached applying section 44 of the

Evidence Ordinance.

In Norris vs Charles 63 NLR 501 which is a case decided under

.'\.

the old Partition Act No. 16 of 1951, it was held by Sinnatamby

J" liThe legislature at the same time realized that persons may

be adversely affected by the collusive effect given to both the

interlocutory decree and the final decree and by section 49 re-

enacted the provisions of the proviso to Section 9 of the earlier

Ordinance which gave such persons the right to bring an action

for damages." It must be borne in mind that sub-section 7 of

Section 48 of the present Partition Law re-validates the

provisions of the earlier Partition Act No. 16 of 1951 and grants

f I I

II

, .. 8

relief under Section 49 of the Partition law. The question of

non-investigation of title of the parties will not arise in this

case as there was no dispute as to the title between the

Plaintiff and the Defendant. As such, the Court need not go

into a voyage of discovery of title, which may arise only when

there is a contest as to the title between the parties. Counsel

for the Petitioner has cited several authorities in the written

submissions to the effect that the court has a duty to

investigate the title of the parties in a partition action. But this

contention, as stated above, is applicable only when there is a

contest or dispute between the parties with regard to their

title. However, the duty of the court is to investigate the title

of the parties is subject to the ....... limits of pleadings,

admissions, points of contest etc., In this case, I do not see any

wrong in the learned District Judge accepting the title of the

parties who did not have a contest as to their title and they are

-'). admittedly two sisters who derive their title from the same

source.

In this case, the Petitioner, inter alia, is asking to set aside the

interlocutory decree entered on 23.02.2002 and the final

decree dated 21.04.2004 and ordered to allow the Petitioner

to enter to this case and file statement of claim. These reliefs

cannot be granted as Section 49 of the Partition Law grants

alternative reliefs to the Petitioner. Furthermore, since the

Petitioner was not a party to the action, setting aside the

f " 9

interlocutory and final decree would not make her a party in

the case as she was not a party at the time judgment was

delivered. Although Section 69 of the Partition Law provides

for addition of party but this must be done at any time before

judgment is delivered and not thereafter. The Petitioner

cannot say that she is left with no relief. Right of persons who

are not parties to a partition action are protected by Section

49 of the Partition Law. Section 49(1) of the Partition Law, as

amended by Act No.17 of 1997, states:

((Any person, not being a party to a partition action,

whose rights to the land to which the action relates have been

extinguished or who is otherwise prejudiced by the

interlocutory decree entered in the action, may, by separate

action instituted not later than five years from the date of the

final decree in the partition action, recover damages from any

party to the action by whose act, whether of commission 0(;

omission, such damages may have accrued and where the

whole or any part of such damages cannot be recovered from

any such party, recover such damages or part thereof from any

other person who has benefitted by any such act of such party.

Any person who has benefitted by such act, may be made a

Defendant in such separate action and shall, if damages are

awarded in that action, be bound by the award to the extent of

such benefit as may be determined by the Court, to be that

derived by him from such act. /I IIII

,. 10

For the reasons stated above, I hold that the application of the

Petitioner should be dismissed and accordingly I dismiss the Revision

Application with costs fixed at Rs. 15,000/-.

Application is dismissed.

Deepali Wijesundera J.,

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL