==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA (PHC) Revision Application No:101/2012

1. The Municipal Council, Anuradhapura. 2. SampathRohana Dharmadasa, Municipal Commissioner, Municipal Council, Anuradhapura.

1st and 2nd Respondents-Petitioners Vs. Sanath Banduma Meddekanda, 388/48, Harischandra Mawatha, Anuradhapura.

Petitioner-Respondent S.K. Hettiarachchi alias 'Chandi Malli', No. 10, 'Indunil', Nuwarawewa Mawatha, Airport Road, Anuradhapura.

3rd Respondent-Respondent

C.A. (PHC) APN.10l/2012 -HCCA Anuradhapura

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED & DECIDED ON

K.T. CHITRASIRI, J.

PHC (NCP) Writ Application No.16/2011

K.T. CHITRASIRI, J. &

MALINIE GUNARATNE, J.

Shantha Jayawardane with Dinesh de Silva for the 1st and 2nd Respondent-Petitioners.

Chandrasiri Wanigapura for the Petitioner-Respondent.

24.09.2014.

Heard both counsel in support their respective cases.

This is an application seeking inter alia to revise and/ or set aside the

judgment dated 29.05.2012 of the learned Provincial High Court Judge of

Anuradhapura wherein he has made order issuing a writ of certiorari and a

mandamus, compelling the respondent-petitioners to extend the period as referred

to in the agreement dated 09.05.2001. (Vide at pages 94 and 95 in the appeal

brief) Accordingly, having issued writs of mandamus and certiorari, the two

petitioners were directed by the learned High Court Judge to extend the period of

lease in respect of the land referred to in the aforesaid agreement.

Learned Counsel for the petitioners submitted that the law does not

provide issuing prerogative writs when it comes to agreements between two

parties. Accordingly, he contends that the learned High Court Judge has

misdirected himself when he issued the two writs in this instance.

1

Admittedly, the application by the petitioner-respondent to the

Provincial High Court is to have a writ of mandamus and a certiorari to have the

period of lease referred to in the aforesaid agreement dated 09.05.2001, extended.

Therefore, it is clear that there was no evidence to show that there had been a

public duty which arises from a statute, cast upon the two petitioners in this

instance. This issue had been dealt with in the following two cases. In the case of

Jayaweera vs Wijeratne [19852 SLR at page 413JG.P.S. de Silva, J. (as he then

was) has held that -

"where the relationship between the parties IS a purely

contractual one of a commercial nature neither certiorari nor

mandamus will lie to remedy grievances arising from an alleged

breach of contract or failure to observe the principles of natural

justice even if one of the parties is a public authority."

In the case of Jayawardena vs The People's Bank [2002 3 SLR at page 17J

Jayasinghe, J. has held thus-

" I am unable to accept the submission that the Circular issued

by the Bank regulating the transfer of personnel from one

station to another can be equated to an exercise of statutory

power or discharge of a public duty to attract the writ

jurisdiction of this Court.

Contract of employment is solely a matter within the purview of

private law and not a matter for judicial review."

The foregoing authorities show that no prerogative writs would lie to

remedy a breach of the terms in a contract between two parties even though one

party in that contract is a public body. In this instance, it is clear that the

respondent has filed the application in the Provincial High Court for relief upon a

breach of a contractual obligation had, between the parties to this action. Clearly,

there is no public duty that has arisen from a statute in this instance. This issue

has not been addressed by the learned High Court Judge even though this

2

I I I I I I I i ! 't J I I

question of law had been raised in the paragraph 14(3) in the objections as well as

in the written submissions of the petitioners filed in the High Court.

In the circumstances, we are of the view that the learned High Court

Judge has misdirected himself when he issued a writ of mandamus and a writ of

certiorari in favour of the respondent. Accordingly, we set aside the judgment

dated 29.05.2012 of the learned Provincial High Court Judge of Anuradhapura.

For the aforesaid reasons, this application is allowed. There will be no costs.

Application allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

MALINIE GUNARATNE, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

TW

3