==== BLOCKS ==== 

I f I f ! I 1 ! I i !

~ 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. 14/2010

1. Kapuruhamige Manel Samaranayake

Yakawewa, Halmillawetiya

Kabithigollawa.

2. Kapuruhamige Chaminda Ekanayake

Yakawewa, Halmillawetiya

Kabithigollawa.

ACCUSED-APPELLANTS

H.C. Anuradhapura 217/2003

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

P. W.O. C. Jayathilake J.

Vs.

Hon. The Attorney General

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

RESPONDENT

P. Prince Perera for the Accused-Appellants

Sarath Jayamanne D.S.G. for the Respondent

25.03.2014

03.04.2014

1

2

GOONERATNE J.

The 1st & 2nd Accused-Appellants were convicted of murder of a man

named Weerakoon Mudiyanselage Wasantha Hemakeerthi and was sentenced

to death. The facts of this case could be summarized as follows.

The incident took place on the new years day 13th April 2000. 1st &

2nd Accused were home guards attached for duties at the 'Yakawewa' police

post, in the Kebitigollawa Police division. The 1st witness for the prosecution

was police constable Ranchagoda Gamage Keerthiratne who was in charge of

the 'Yakawewa' Police Post. The deceased was also on duty at the above police

post on the day the incident occurred. There is also evidence led at the trial to

the effect that all others on duty at various police posts in the area had

gathered at the 'Yakawewa' police post in order to observe new year

traditional customs of offering beetle etc. According to the version of this

witness at about the time when there were several others in the police posts

the 1st & 2nd Accused-Appellant had abused (having consumed liquor) and

threatened the witness who was a senior police officer in charge of the police

post. As such the witness complained to the Officer-In-Charge of the

3

Kebitigollawa Police Station (8alagalle, O.I.e) who advised him to take the

Accused-Appellants into custody. The witness testified that he saw the 1st

Accused walking towards his house which was in very close proximity to the

police posts. He also at the same moment heard a gunshot being fired, and

saw the 1st Accused, was having a weapon in his possession. He also saw that

the deceased had been shot who had been giving chase behind the 1st

Accused. As regards the 2

nd Accused he was not involved in the shooting

incident but was seen in the compound of the 1st Accused' house, but had

absconded after the incident.

The position of the prosecution was that the 1st Accused surrendered

to the police with a gun. It was submitted to this court by the learned counsel

for the Appellant that the 2

nd Accused was not involved in the shooting

incident and that he did not have the required murderous intention to convict

him for a charge of murder. As such the 2nd Accused should be acquitted. The

learned counsel in his submission to court emphasized the fact that

Government Analyst's report and the evidence of the Government Analyst

was not led at the trial. He invited court to consider such report which is

already filed of record, which report would indicate that the gun that was

produced and the bullet recovered from the scene of the incident do not tally,

I 1 I 1 I

I

1 I

4

and as such there is a doubt whether the 1st Accused in fact shot the deceased.

However the learned Deputy Solicitor General very correctly explained the

position suggested by learned counsel for the Appellant. It was the position

that the 1st Accused could not be arrested since he was evading arrest and the

1st Accused on his own after a few days surrendered to the police with a gun.

Therefore the gun that was produced by the 1st Accused is not the gun that

was used to commit the crime. Therefore advisedly the prosecution did not

want to place that evidence of the Government Analyst.

This court having considered the submissions of both learned counsel

has no reason to reject the version of the prosecution. However the evidence

and material placed before the High Court would not implicate the 2nd

Accused, who cannot be held to have entertained a murderous intention. We

however find that evidence led by the prosecution had not been challenged by

the defence as regards material aspects of the prosecution case, except as

regards the 2nd Accused. The evidence that transpired in the High Court cannot

be held to have implicated the 2nd Accused on a charge of murder. The case of

each Accused need to be considered separately and in the absence of a

murderous intention of the 2nd Accused, his conviction and sentence cannot be

allowed to stand. We proceed to quash the conviction and sentence of the 2

nd

III

~jti!

I(i

[

fI!,2; !,

1

J

J

I I

5

Accused. As regard the conviction and sentence of the 1st Accused cannot be

interfered. As such we affirm the conviction and sentence of the 1st Accused.

Appeal allowed only as regards the 2

nd Accused-Appe"ant.

Appeal of 2nd Accused allowed. The Registrar of this court is directed

to send a copy of this judgment to the Prison Authorities.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL