==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI

LANKA

Lawrence Hewage Sarath Premaratne alias

Sarath Premawardena.

Accused-Appellant

C.A.Appeal No. 86/2009

High Court Trincomalee No.

HCT/134/06

Before:

Counsel:

-Vs-

The Attorney-General.

Respondent

Sisira. J. de Abrew, J &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J

Chathura Galhena for the Accused-Appellant.

Chethiya Goonesekera SSC for the Respondents.

1

Argued &

Decided on:

Sisira. J . de Abrew, J

10.06.2013.

***

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case has been convicted of the murder of a

man named Amaratunga Arachchilage Gamini and the murder of a child named

lsuru alias Amaratunga Arachchilage Ashan Ranthilaka and was sentenced to

death. He was also convicted of the offence of attempted murder where he

attempted to commit the murder of Dahanpalage Susila Rathnamala who is the

wife of the 1st deceased person {Amaratunga Arachchilage Gamini). He was, on

the charge of attempted murder, sentenced to a term of OS years Rigorous

Imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs. 5000/-carrying a default sentence of 03

months R.l.

2

The facts of this case as narrated by the prosecution witnesses may be

briefly summarized as follows.

The accused-appellant was living in the adjoining house of the deceased

person. When the accused-appellant and his wife quarreled, the wife of accused-

appellant used to come to the deceased person's house for shelter. On the day

of the incident around 12 mid night, the accused person's wife requested her

to open the door. When she ( Susila Rathnamala) opened the door, the accused-

appellant fired at her with T. 56 rifle. He without stopping the firing continued

to fire. Thereafter Susila Rathnamala ran away from the house and took

shelter in the house of one Weerasuriya who was a neighbour.

She identified the accused-appellant with the aid of moon light. When she

came back to her house she found her husband and the son lying fallen in a pool

of blood. Her husband and the son both died as a result of the shooting by the

accused-appellant.

3

The police officer who went to the scene found 24 empty cartridges at the

scene. I.P.Piyaratne arrested the accused-appellant with a T.56 gun while he

was sleeping in a coconut estate. The Government Analyst confirmed that the 24

cartridges had been fired by the gun that was taken into custody from the

possession of the accused-appellant. The accused-appellant in his dock statement

denied the incident.

The learned High court judge has rejected the dock statement. As I pointed

out earlier, 24 empty cartridges found at the scene of offence had been fired

by the gun that was taken into custody from the possession of the accused-

appellant. When I consider this evidence, I hold the view that the rejection of

the dock statement by the learned High Court Judge is correct.

Learned counsel appearing for the accused-appellant contended that the

learned trial judge has not evaluated the evidence. But I am unable to agree

with the said submission. When I consider the pages 15,16 and 17 of the

judgment of the learned trial judge. In my view the learned trial judge has very

correctly evaluated the evidence of the witnesses. When I consider the

evidence led at the trial, I see no reason to interfere with the judgment of the

4

learned trial judge. lt is relevant tq note what the accused-appellant has stated

when the learned trial judge acted under section 280 of the Criminal Procedure

Code before passing the death sentence. When the learned trial judge asked the

accused-appellant whether he has got to say anything, he addressed the Court

in the following language.

" Up to this point you have passed several death sentences. Up to this

point no death sentence has been executed. Therefore execute my death

sentence." The said words by the accused-appellant can be considered by the

Court of Criminal appeal in view of the Judgment of the Court of Criminal appeal

in the case of Periyambalam Vs The Queen reported in 74 NLR page 515 .

Court of criminal appeal in the said case held thus; "An admission made by

an accused person in answer to the allocutus under section 305 of the Criminal

Procedure Code is part of the evidence in the case, and the Court of Criminal

appeal cannot ignore the effect of such admission ."

5

When I consider the evidence led at the trial and I hold the view that the

prosecution has proved the case beyond reasonable doubt. I therefore affirm all

three convictions and affirm two death sentences and the sentence imposed on

the 3rd count. I dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J

I agree.

Kpm/-

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Judge of the Court of Appeal

6