==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA. 184/2013 {Writ}

1. Don Jayantha Weerasinghe

No. 883/25 C, Uswatte Mawatha,

Ethul Kotte,

Kotte.

2. Kotte Real Estate {pvt.} Ltd.,

No. 883/25 C, Uswatte Mawatha,

Ethul Kotte,

Kotte.

PETITIONERS

Vs.

1. Hatton National Bank PLC

No. 479, H. N. B. Towers,

T. B. Jaya Mawatha,

Colombo 10.

2. Registrar of Lands,

Registrar General's Department,

Dam Street,

Colombo 12.

RESPONDENTS

1

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERATNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

5.5. Sahabandu P.c. with Saliya Matthew for Petitioners

07.11.2013

10.12.2013

2

The above application was supported on 07.11.2013 by learned

President's Counsel seeking a Writ of Certiorari to quash the certificate of sale

(P8) and a Writ of Mandamus to cancel the registration pertaining to the said

certificate P8. The 1st Petitioner claims to be the owner of the land described in

the schedule to the petition by virtue of deeds of transfer and a deed of

declaration marked and produced P2, P2A & P2B. By P3 the 2nd Petitioner

obtained over draft facilities from the 1st Respondent Bank in a sum of Rs. 9

million. The above facility was secured by Mortgage Bond P4 which property was

in fact mortgaged by the 1st Petitioner who claimed to be the owner as aforesaid.

3

It is also pleaded that on 21.08.2010 the Board of Directors of the

first Respondent Bank passed a resolution (PS) under Section 4 of the Recovery of

Loans by Banks (Special Provisions) Act No. 4 of 1990 to auction the above

property described in the schedule to the Petition since the Petitioners have

defaulted in payment of the sums due on the overdraft facilities. At the hearing of

this application for support the learned President's Counsel very correctly did not

deny the default of paying the loan by the Petitioners to this application. Learned

President's Counsel submitted that the property was to be auctioned and 1st

Petitioner filed action in the Commercial High Court of Colombo challenging the

above auction in H.C (Civil 403/11 MR (P6 plaint). In the petition itself it is

disclosed that the High Court initially issued an enjoining order to enjoin the 1st

Respondent Bank from auctioning the property but after inquiry refused to issue

the interim injunction (P7). The Bank had thereafter re-scheduled the auction sale

for 01.10.2012. I would refer to some of the matters urged on behalf of the

Petitioner as follows:

(1) Auction sale never held publicly and shrouded in mystery and no publicity given. No

bidders and no banners or posters (P10).

(2) Abuse of statutory powers - contrary to Section 9 of Act No.4 of 1990 notice of date,

time, place not produced.

(3) Respondent Bank cannot buy the property for themselves at Rs. 1000/=. Said purchase

is illegal.

I

f I ~

I I

I I

l

4

In the above (1) - (3), Petitioner claim a loss of Rs. 20 million and state total

outstanding is less than 10 million.

We have considered the position of the Petitioners. There is no

doubt that the Petitioners are defaulters of a loan facility. The famous South

African Jurist 'Lee' describes this as an extra judicial sale. Since 1990 many Banks

have resorted to the provisions of Recovery of Loans by Banks (Special Provisions)

Act, which eventually led to significant changes in the law of parate execution,

and to facilitate debt recovery. Further it gives power to non-judicial persons

(Board of Directors) to take the decision to sell the mortgage property in case of

default. The term 'loan' as defined in the Statute includes overdrafts or advance

or any other monetary considerations. There are a variety of steps to be taken by

the Bank in the process of recovery of debt. If the property is sold, the Board has

to execute a certificate of sale. The effect of the certificate of sale is that all rights,

title and interest of the borrower and in the property are deemed to have vested

with the purchaser. Further it should not be construed to invalidate the certificate

for any cause whatsoever or to maintain any right or title or interest to or in the

property against the purchaser. It is conclusive proof. \l

5

We are of the view that the Petitioners have not urged proper legal

and effective grounds to invalidate the certificate of sale P8. There is no basis

even to consider the issue of notice. As such we refuse to issue notice.

Application dismissed- no costs.

Malinie Gunaratne J.

I agree.

~ ~.~r

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

II! I

[