==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA (Writ) Application No: 02/2013

G.N.Priyalanka, No.244/1, ldamegama, Werellagama, Kandy.

PETITIONER -Vs- Professor Athula Senaratne, The Vice-Chancellor, University of Peradeniya, Peradeniya. And 08 others.

RESPONDENTS

C.A. 02/2013

Before

Counsel

Decided on

An application for Writs of Certiorari, Prohibition

and Mandamus

S. Sriskandarajah,J. (P/CA) &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

Shantha Jayawardena for the Petitioner

31.01.2013

S. Sriskandarajah,J. (P/CA

Learned Counsel for the Petitioner is seeking a writ of certiorari to quash

the order of the University Services Appeals Board marked as P24. By the said

order, the University Services Appeals Board dismissed the appeal of the

Petitioner made from the disciplinary order marked P14. By the said disciplinary

order the Petitioner's increment has been suspended for one year and the

Petitioner was asked to pay the value of the equipment amount into Rs.

106,400/- (One Hundred and Six Thousand Four Hundred) and the surcharge of

25%, amount into Rs.26,000/- (Twenty Six Thousand) and the total of Rs.

133,000/- {Hundred and Thirty Three Thousand) and he was warned to see that

this similar occurance will not appear in future. The material placed before the

University Services Appeals Board was considered by the said Board and it has

come to the finding that the decision taken by the disciplinary committee is in

order. Learned Counsel for the Petitioner submitted that the University Services

Appeals Board's decision was made by the Chairman and two members and one

of the members had not taken part in the said proceedings of the University

Services Appeals Board and therefore the said order is invalid. As the University

Services Appeals Board consists of three members and the decision could be by a

majority of the members of the Board and even if one of the members descend

the majority decision stands. In these circumstances, at least two members who

participated in the hearing (Chairman and another member) has agreed with the

final decision and therefore the decision cannot be stated as an illegal order in

the given circumstances.

Learned Counsel also submitted that the Petitioner was not given an

option to retain a counsel of his choice as the Establishment Code of the

University Grant Commission permits an officer to be represented by an Attorney-

at-Law and when the Petitioner sought permission to retain an Attorney-at-law

who was a former Registrar of the said University that application was turn down

and therefore counsel submitted that the Petitioner's right to a fair hearing is

affected by this order and in these circumstances the said disciplinary order

should be quashed and this aspect was not considered by the University Services

Appeals Board.

IIII

! I '

jiItl

~ !II rt [ !i i!1t ' i ! i

~ III II•tI ! III

The refusal of the Attorney-at-law of the Petitioner was on the basis that

the said Attorney-at-Law was a former Registrar of that University and the

Petitioner was permitted to retain an Attorney-at-law other than an officer of the

University. In these circumstances, the Petitioner's submissions that his right to

retain a counsel was deprived cannot be accepted.

In these circumstances, this Court refuses to issue notice.

PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Cr/-

!I II

tiIi !I

I. t I Ir 2