==== BLOCKS ==== 

j i I ;

I I j

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA 182/2003

1. Loku Galapththige Cyril 2. Dehipagoda Pushpalatha Mangalika 3. Karunawathi Weerawama Wickramthunga

Accused-Appellants

Vs The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Complainant Respondent

HC Hambantota 5/96

Before

Counsel

Argued on Decided on

Sisira J De Abrew J & PWDC Jayathilake J

Navin Marapana for the accused appellant DPJ De Livera DSG for the Respondent

2nd,5 th and 6th of August 2013 18.9.2013

Sisira J de Abrew J.

The accused appellants in this case, after trial, were convicted of the offence

of culpable homicide not amounting to murder on the basis of grave and sudden

provocation and sudden fight which is an offence under section 297 of the Penal

t ' Code. The 1 S accused appellant was sentenced to a term of five years rigorous

imprisonment (Rl) and to pay a fine of Rs.7,500/- carrying a default sentence of

four years imprisonment. The 2nd accused was sentenced to a term of three years

Rl and to pay a fine of Rs.3,OOO/- carrying a default sentence of two years

2

imprisonment. Same punishment was imposed on the 3rd accused appellant. Being

aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentences they have appealed to this

court.

Facts of this case as narrated by the prosecution witnesses may be briefly

summarized as follows.

The 1 st accused appellant (1 st accused) was running a boutique by the side of

the road leading to a village known as Tikirigammanaya. The 1 st accused and his

wife the 2nd accused appellant (2nd accused) were living in a section of this

boutique. The 3rd accused appellant (3 rd accused) is the mother of the 2nd accused.

The deceased person Ariyaratne alias Ariyapala was living with Hettiarchchige

Karunawathi (hereinafter referred to as the deceased's wife) as husband and wife

although he was married to the sister of the 3rd accused. In the morning of 24th July

1990 when the deceased's wife was going to her work place, Amara who is one of

the sisters of the 3rd accused had an exchange of words with her. The deceased

person at this stage intervened and settled the dispute by assaulting both women.

The deceased's wife returned home without going to the work place. The

deceased's wife and the deceased person thereafter went and lodged a complaint in

Thissamaharama police and both of them returned to the village around 1.30 p.m.

The deceased person's wife went home while the deceased person stayed near the

boutique of the 1 st accused. This was the summary of evidence of the wife of the

deceased. Around 2.30 p.m. when the deceased person was near the boutique of the

1 st accused, the 3rd accused came and held him from behind. At this stage the 2nd

accused came and attacked the leg of the deceased person with a katty and the 1 st

accused attacked the head of the deceased with an iron bar. This iron bar according

to the witnesses was a tool of gem mining trade. One end of the iron bar was

pointed and the other end was flat. Witness Sunil who witnessed this attack, at one

3

stage, says that with the blow given by the 2

nd accused with the katty, the deceased

person fell on the ground but later he says the deceased person fell on the ground

when the 1 st accused attacked him with the iron bar. The 1 st accused gave four to

five blows on the deceased person's head with the iron bar.

Karunawathi the wife of the deceased person says that, on hearing that

her husband being attacked, she came to the road and then saw her husband lying

fallen under the Nuga tree which according to the police observation was twelve

feet away from the boutique of the 1 st accused. All three accused appellants were

seen standing near her husband. The 1 st accused was armed with an iron bar (P 1)

and the 2

nd accused was armed with a katty (P2). The 3rd accused was not having

any weapon.

The evidence of the 2

nd accused may be briefly summarized as follows:

Around 11.00 a.m. on the day of the incident the deceased person came near her

boutique on two or three occasions carrying a jug of illicit liquor (kassipu). He was

scolding the family of the accused appellants and at one stage he threatened to set

fire to their boutique. Around 2.30 p.m. she heard a bottle breaking sound and then

saw the deceased person inside the boutique carrying an iron bar. He then jumped

at her and held her by her hair. Then both of them grappled and fell on the bed.

They struggled on the bed for five to ten minutes. When she screamed with

excitement her husband came. At this stage she got herself released from the grip

of the deceased person. Her husband started grappling with the deceased person

who was having the iron bar. He held on to the iron bar but could not take it. At

this stage she brought the katty which was kept in the house and attacked the

deceased person with it several times. The deceased person fell near the door step

when she attacked his leg. According to her evidence she had attacked the

4

deceased person inside the boutique. However her husband who was grappling

with the deceased person did not sustain injuries from her. She says if she did not

attack the deceased person, he would have attacked both of them with the iron bar.

According to her evidence, she had exercised her right of private defence. She does

not say that her husband attacked the deceased person. She says that the 3rd

accused was not at this place at the time of the incident described by her. This was

the summary of her evidence.

The most important question that must be decided in this case is whether

the 2

nd accused attacked the deceased person inside her boutique. If this question is

answered in the affirmative, such an answer will support her evidence. According

to her, when her husband was grappling with the deceased person inside the

boutique, she kept on attacking him with the katty and this attack took place inside

the boutique. Were there blood stains inside the boutique? The investigating officer

(Sumathipala Vidanepathirana) had gone to the boutique and had observed a

broken toffee bottle. He does not say that he observed blood stains inside the

boutique. He says he noticed blood stains under the Nuga tree which was twelve

feet away from the boutique. From the police officer's evidence, it is very clear

that there were no blood stains inside the boutique. Then is the evidence of the 2

nd

accused true? According to her, she grappled with the deceased person on the bed

for about five to ten minutes. But according to the police officer the bed was not

disturbed. If she grappled with the deceased person on the bed for five to ten

minutes how did the investigating officer make this observatiori? It is difficult to

think that they arranged the bed before going to the police station because soon

after the incident, according to the 2

nd accused, they took the iron bar and the katty

and went to the police station. When these matters are considered, I have to ask the

following question. Is the evidence of the 2

nd accused true? The observation

5

relating to the broken bottle lends support to her story. But she had not seen the

deceased person attacking the bottle. According to the police officer there were

other bottles on the same rack. The other bottles were not broken. The police

officer had not observed toffees fallen on the rack or the ground. When I consider

all these matters it is difficult to conclude that the deceased person broke the toffee

bottle. Although the 2nd accused grappled with the deceased person who was

having an iron bar which had a pointed end for about five to ten minutes (this was

the evidence of the 2nd accused), she had not sustained any injury. The 2nd accused,

in her evidence, does not say that her husband attacked the deceased person. But

the deceased had sustained several injuries on his head. There were several

fractures on his head. According to the doctor there should have been four separate

blows on the head. The 2nd accused does not say that she attacked the head of the

deceased. She says that when she attacked the deceased person with the katty she

carefully gave blows. She says she did so in order to safeguard her husband from

her own blows. She had not implicated her husband in the attack on the deceased

person although he (the deceased person) had sustained such grievous injuries on

his head. If she gave blows with care, how did the deceased person sustain

grievous injuries including fractures on his head? When I consider all these matters

I hold the view that the evidence of the 2nd accused is not true and that it does not

create a reasonable in the prosecution case. For the above reasons I reject the

version of the 2nd accused. In my view, the learned trial judge was right when he

rejected the evidence of the 2nd accused.

Sunil, in his evidence, says that 1 st accused gave four to five blows on the

head of the deceased person. The doctor says that at least four separate blows had

been given to the head of the deceased person. Thus doctor's evidence corroborates

Sunil's evidence. Sunil has made a prompt statement to the police. Thus his

I

!Il

I

!I

,

I

f

~

6

evidence satisfies the test of promptness. There are no vital contradictions in his

evidence. Thus his evidence satisfies the test of consistency. When I consider all

these matters, I hold that the learned trial judge was right when he accepted the

prosecution story.

The next question that must be considered is whether the learned trial

judge was right when he convicted the accused appellants of the offence of

culpable homicide not amounting to murder on the basis of grave and sudden

provocation. According to the wife of the deceased person, both of them came

from the police station and the deceased person stayed near the boutique of the 1 st

accused. According to her, the incident has taken place one hour thereafter. Sunil

says that the deceased person was first seen on the middle of the road. But the

incident has taken place little away from the middle of the road. When I consider

the facts of the case, it is reasonable to think that the behaviour of the deceased

person had provoked the accused appellants. Therefore I am unable to find fault

with the decision of the learned trial Judge when he convicted the accused

appellant on the basis of grave and sudden provocation.

Learned DSG made an application to enhance the punishment imposed on

the accused appellants. When considering this application, I have to note here that

the Attorney General has not filed an appeal against the punishment. All three

accused appellants had been given custodial sentences. When I consider all these

matters I refuse to interfere with the punishment imposed by the learned trial

Judge.

When I consider the evidence led at the trial, I hold that the prosecution had

proved the case beyond reasonable doubt and that the evidence of the 2nd accused

had not created any reasonable doubt in the prosecution case. For the above

I

I

7

reasons, I affirm the convictions and the sentences imposed on the accused

appellants and dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed

PWDC Jayatilake J

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.