==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Piyasena Loku Vithana "Sumeeda", Welikala,

Pokunawita.

Plain tiff-Appellant C.A. N0.556/96(F) D.C.HORANA CASE N0.1728P

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON

DECIDED ON

Vs

1 A. Manage Somaratne Welikala Pokunawita.

And others

Defendant-Respondents

K. T. CHITRASIRI, J

Saliya Peiris, Attorney-at-Law for the Plaintiff-Appellant

Sanath Jayatillake, Attorney-at-Law for the 1oth & 11th Substituted Defendant-Respondents.

29.04.2013

061h June 2013 by the lOth & 11th Substituted Defendant-Respondents.

27.06.2013

2

CHITRASIRI, J.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the judgment dated 31.11.1996 of the

learned District Judge of Horana. In the petition of appeal, the appellant has also sought

for an order to have a trial de novo or to enter judgment in favour of the plaintiff. In the

said judgment, learned District Judge has decided to accept the 11th defendant's claim

having rejected the position taken up by the plaintiff-appellant. (hereinafter sometimes

referred to as the plaintiff) Reason to rely upon the position of the 11th defendant-

respondent has been the contradictory nature as to the number of children of the

plaintiffs father. Indeed paragraph 6 of the petition of appeal has been drafted to

challenge the said decision of the learned District Judge as to the number of children of

the plaintiffs father.

Even though the petition of appeal has been filed on those lines, when the appeal

was taken up for argument on 29.04.2013, the learned Counsel for the appellant had

informed Court that he would be restricting this appeal as to the title referred to in the

deed bearing No.l185 marked as P11 in evidence. According to him, the rights emanated

from the deed 1185 have not been considered at all by the learned District Judge. In view

of the above decision to restrict this appeal as to the rights derived from the deed 1185,

the matters raised in the petition of appeal dated 25.03.1966 stand not pursued and

therefore, it is not necessary for this Court to look at the matters referred to therein.

3

As mentioned hereinbefore, learned Counsel for the plaintiff is of the view that

the learned trial Judge has not looked at the deed 1185 at all. Accordingly, he moved this

Court to allot the shares that had been kept un-allotted to the plaintiff on the basis of the

title derived from the deed No.1185 marked as P 11 in evidence.

Admittedly, the learned District Judge in his judgment has not referred to the said

deed marked P11 at any stage. Therefore, I will now consider whether it is possible

and/or is correct for this Court to allot the shares which was kept un-allotted, to the

plaintiff on the strength ofthe deed 1185 marked P11.

The said deed bearing No.ll85 marked P11, is a deed of transfer in which the

transferor is L.B.Emis Singho who is the father of the plaintiff. He, by that deed had

transferred to the plaintiff an undivided 5/28 + 1/25 shares plus another undivided 114 +

2110 shares of the land, becoming it to exactly two acres in extent. Hence, it is seen that a

specific extent containing 2 acres had devolved on to the plaintiff as a result of the

execution of the said deed.

Admittedly, the land sought to be partitioned has only 2 acres 1 rood and 2.7

perches on the ground. [Vide Plan No. 74 marked X] Then it would result in, to remain

less than 43 perches of land to be distributed amongst all other eo-owners in the event the

entitlement under the said deed 1185 is accepted. Such a position will lead either to

disregard the title of the deeds of the other parties or they could only have very much

lesser land than their entitlement. At this stage, it must be noted that the decision to

4

accept those deeds of the other parties have not been challenged and therefore the title

referred to in those deeds cannot be disturbed in order to accommodate the title derived

from deed 1185. Therefore, it is clear that the title deed 1185 of the plaintiff cannot be

regarded as far as the extent of the land sought to be partitioned is concerned particularly

when the share allocation of the other parties are to remain intact. Hence, it is illogical

and even wrong to accept the title referred to in the deed No.1185 as far as the corpus of

this action is concerned though the application of the learned Counsel for the appellant is

to that effect.

I will now look at the reasons assigned by the learned District Judge for keeping

1/56 shares of the land un-allotted. In the first paragraph found at page 11 of the

judgment, [page 246 of the appeal brief] the learned District Judge has stated that it is

because of the inability of the plaintiff to establish the particulars of one son of Coronelis

that it was kept un-allotted. Therefore, it is clear that the entitlement to the share that was

un-allotted should devolve on to the aforesaid son of Coronelis who was not disclosed for

the purpose of this action and not for any other reason. It is more so when there is no

appeal, challenging the decision as to the non-disclosure of the name of a son of

Coronelis. Accordingly, the share that was kept un-allotted has to be devolved on either

to the said son of Coronelis whose name was not disclosed or to his heirs. Therefore,

merely because there is a share that had been kept un-allotted in the impugned judgment,

it cannot be allotted to the plaintiff merely looking at the deed 1185.

5

Accordingly, I am not inclined to allow the application of the learned Counsel for

the plaintiff-appellant in order to have the un-allotted shares, allotted to the plaintiff For

the aforesaid reasons, I do not wish to interfere with the impugned judgment. Hence, the

judgment dated 31.11.96 would prevail intact. Accordingly, this appeal is dismissed with

costs.

Appeal dismissed

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL