==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA. Appeal No. 82/2011

H. C.(KegaUa) 1872/2003

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

Sisira J.De Abrew, J

Mataralage Nishantha Sampath

Accused -Appellant

-Vs-

The Attorney-General.

Respondent.

Sisira J .De Abrew, J

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J

Niranjan Jayasinghe for the Accused-Appellant.

Kapila Waidyaratne DSG for the AG

31.10.2013

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases. The accused -

appellant in this case was convicted for the offence of grave sexual abuse

committed on a girl named Mataralage Gayangani and was sentenced to

a term of seven years rigorous imprisonment and to pay a sum of

2

Rs.50,000 / - as compensation to the victim carrying a default sentence of

six months imprisonment. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and

the sentence he has appealed to this court. Facts of this case may be

briefly summarised as follows:

Gayangani lives III her grandmother & grandfather's house. On

30.06.1999 (the day of the alleged incident)when the grandfather of

Gayangani went to the back garden to tie cattle, the accused appellant

who was living in the neighbourhood entered her room and threatened

her with death and removed her clothes. The accused appellant too

removed his clothes. He has attempted to insert his mail organ to her

vagina. When he failed in his attempts he went away from the place. She

did not bring this matter to the notice of grandparents or her parents soon

after the incident. She brought this incident to the notice of the

grandmother only after five days of the incident. It is significant to note

that the original indictment contained a charge of rape. But later

prosecuting State Counsel amended the said charge to one of grave

sexual abuse. Gayangani, at page 45 of the brief, admits that she said

many more things done by the accused appellant in her statement made

to the police. In short, in my view, she admits that she exaggerated the

incident when she made the statement to the police. This is a matter that

should have been considered by the learned trial judge very seriously.

Unfortunately the learned trial judge has failed to consider this matter.

This admission by Gayangani demonstrates that she was not truthful

when she made the statement to the police.

3

She brought the alleged sexual assault to the notice of the grandmother

only after five days of the incident. She says that as she could not keep

the incident in her mind any more, she told this incident to the

grandmother. This is not an acceptable explanation for the delay. She

made a statement to the police only on the 6th ( 6 days after the alleged

incident). It is significant to note that she failed to mention the name of

the accused appellant in her short history given by her to the doctor. The

accused appellant is an uncle of Gayangani. According to the evidence

she knew the name of the accused appellant who is an uncle of her. If she

knew the name of the accused-appellant, question arises as to why she

did not mention his name in the short history. According to the evidence

led at the trial by the prosecution, there was displeasure between families

with regard to a land matter. She says that they were not on visiting

terms.

One Gamini, who was staying in the house of her grandfather where

Gayangani was living, had on an earlier occasion, tried to cause trouble to

the sister of the accused appellant. Gayangani reluctantly admitted this

matter. Thus it appears from the evidence of the prosecution itself that

there were reasons for her to falsely implicate the accused appellant with

the alleged incident.

4

When we consider all these matters it is difficult to accept the version of

the prosecution beyond reasonable doubt. In my view it is dangerous to

act on the evidence of Gayangani. Learned trial judge, at page 108 of the

brief, says that the defence failed to point out a reason as to why

Gayangani made this type of allegation. But the learned trial Judge has

failed to consider the displeasure between the two families and the other

incident relating to Gamini. Further he failed to consider the exaggeration

made by Gayangani in her statement made to the police which Gayangani

admitted in her evidence. Learned trial judge has rejected the dock

statement on the basis of the judgement in the case of Kularatne Vs

Queen 71 NLR 529. The learned trial judge observed that since the dock

statement which is an unsworn statement is not subjected to cross

examination it has less evidentiary value. But the learned trial judge

failed to give adequate consideration to the guide lines given in the said

judgement which I state below.

1. If the dock statement is believed it must be acted upon.

2. If the dock statement creates a reasonable doubt m the

prosecution case defence of the accused must succeed.

The judgment in the case of Kularatne Vs Queen further says that the

dock statement must be considered as evidence subject to the infirmities

that it was not made under oath and it was not subjected to cross

examination. It appears that the learned trial judge failed to follow the

said principle. The accused-appellant in his dock statement denied the

incident. He said that the two' families were not' on visiting terms as

i

~ , i I j , I 1 I , ! :

5

there was a land dispute. This fact was admitted by Gayangani in her

evidence. According to the accused-appellant Gamini who lives in

Gayangani's house was caught by him when he ( Gamini), in the night,

was holding the window of the house of the accused. Gamini came to

cause trouble to his sister. Gayangani's family was angry with him over

"V this incident. This was the summary of his dock statement., Gayangani, in

her evidence, admitted the incident relating to Gamini. When I consider

the dock statement there was no reason to reject it. The decision of the

learned trial judge to reject the dock statement is, in my view, wrong.

When I consider all the above matters, I am of the opinion that the

prosecution has failed to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. I

therefore set aside the conviction and the sentence of the accused

appellant and acquit the accused-appellant of the charge.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. JayathUaka, J

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Naj-