==== BLOCKS ==== 

1 .j ,

1

IN THE COURT OF PPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA Writ 762/08

In the matter of an application for mandates in the

nature of writs of Certiorari and Mandamus under and

in terms of Article 140 of the Constitution.

I. Adasuriya Mudiyanselage Rohana Bandara,

No.436, Walpola, Bamunukotuwa.

And 110 others.

Petitioners.

Vs.

The Governor, Wayamba Provincial Council,

Kurunegala.

2. The Chief Secretary, Wayamba Provincial

Council, Kurunegala.

3. The Secretary, Chief Ministry, Wayamba

Provincial Council, Kurunegala.

4. The Director Engineering Services, Wayamba

Provincial Council, Kurunegala.

5. The Provincial Director, Road Development

Authority, Wayamba Province, Kurunegala.

6. The General Manager, Road Development

Authority, Setsiripaya, Battaramulla.

7. The Director of Establishment, Ministry of Public

Administration and home Affairs, Independence

Square, Colombo 7.

8. The Provincial Public Service Commission,

Wayamba Provincial Council, Kurunegala.

9. The Wayamba Machinery Authority, Circular

Road, Kurunegala.

10. Hon. Attorney General, Attorney General's

Department, Colombo 7.

2

BEFORE : K.T.Chithasiri 1.

L.T.B.Dehideniya 1.

COUNSEL: Nimal Weerakkody for the Petitioners.

Anusha Samaranayake SSC for the I st to 8th and lOth Respondents

Dulinda Weerasuriya PC with Ruvindra Welikala fo the 9

th

Respondent.

ARGUED ON:30.03.2015

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS

TENDERED ON: For the 9th Respondent on 18.02.2015 and for the 1

st to 8

th and

loth Respondents on 12.03.2015

DECIDED ON: 19.05.2015

Dehideniya 1.

The Petitioners of this application were employees of the Road Development

Authority. After establishing Provincial Councils under the Thirteenth Amendment

of the Constitution, they were absorbed in to the North-Central Provincial Council

(hereinafter sometimes called and referred to as NWPC), with their consent, in 1990

and issued letters of appointment by the Public Service Commission of the NWPC.

The Petitioners grievance is that they were absorbed in to the Wayamba Machinery

Authority without their consent and by this arbitrary act of NWPC, their status of

employment of government servants has changed to private sector employees.

Therefore the Petitioners are seeking for a mandate in the nature of a writ of

certiorari to quash the decision to absorb them into the Wayamba Machinery

Authority and mandate in the nature of a writ of mandamus against the 8

th

Respondent to give effect to the letter of appointment issued by the Public Service

Commission of the NWPC.

I

I

\ I

3

The Respondents have taken up two preliminary objections at the hearing of

this application, i.e. this Court has no jurisdiction and inordinate delay in instituting

this application. With consent of all counsels, the objection on jurisdiction tried first.

The objection was formulated thus;

The jurisdiction to hear and determine the said issues or matters and grant

relieves the Petitioners have sought, if any, in this application exclusively

vest in the Provincial High Court of the North-Western Province as per

Article 154 P (4) of the Constitution. Therefore the 9th Respondent most

respectfully submits that this Court has no jurisdiction to hear and determine

this application and therefore most respectfully moves that this application

be dismissed for the want of jurisdiction.

The Petitioners were originally employed by the Road Development

Authority of the Central Government. After establishing the Provincial Councils

under the Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution, they were absorbed in to the

NWPC. The Petitioners have no grievance in changing their employment status from

government servants of the Central Government to the government servants of

Provincial Council. Actually they have consented to this change. Thereafter, the

letters of appointment were issued by the Public Service Commission of NWPC,

marked as P8. By virtue this appointment, the Petitioners have seized to be the

employees of the Central Government and became the employees of the NWPC.

Petitioners in their petition averred in several paragraphs that they are employees of

NWPC. In paragraphs 3, 6, 10, and many other paragraphs they admit that they were

absorbed in to the NWPC and released from the Central Government employment.

Wayamba Machinery Authority was established under the North Western

Machin~ry and Equipment Authority Statute, No. 09 of 1992 of North Western

Provincial Council. The Petitioners grievance is that they were absorbed into this

Authority without their consent. They are seeking for a mandate in the nature of a

writ of certiorari to quash the letter of appointment issued by the 9th Respondent

marked P16. The 9th Respondent is the Wayamba Machinery Authority which was

established under the said statute. The Petitioners further seeking for a mandate in

the nature of a writ of mandamus against the 8th Respondent to give effect to the

letter of appointment marked P8. The 8th Respondent is the Provincial Public

Service Commission of the NWPC. The Petitioners are invoking the extraordinary

I

1 I

4

jurisdiction of this Court to make an order against subordinate institutes of a

Provincial Council which were acting under a statute enacted by the said Provincial

Council. They do not seek any relief against any decision taken by any officer or an

institute of the Central Government.

The Petitioners in paragraph 2(a) of the petition state that they are seeking a

public law remedy in the context that the Respondents are under a public duty in law

to provide the Petitioners with a lawful status in the Provincial Public Service. They

seek remedy against those who were exercising power within the Province and

acting under a statute enacted by the said Provincial Council.

Article 154P of the Constitution introduced the Provincial High Courts. Sub

Article 4 of the said Article has vested the exclusive writ jurisdiction on the

Provincial High Court against any person exercising, within the Province, any power

under any law or any statutes made by the Provincial Council established for that

Province.

The article reads thus;

154P. (1) There shall be a High Court for each Province with effect from the date

on which this Chapter comes into force. Each such High Court shall be

designated as the High Court of the relevant Province.

(2) The Chief Justice shall nominate from among Judges of the High Court

of Sri Lanka such number of Judges as may be necessary to each such High

Court. Every such Judge shall be transferable by the Chief Justice.

(3) Every such High Court shall-

(a) exercise according to law, the original criminal jurisdiction of the

High Court of Sri Lanka in respect of offences committed within the

Province;

(b) notwithstanding anything in Article 138 and subject to any law,

exercise, appellate and revisionary jurisdiction in respect of

convictions, sentences and orders entered or imposed by Magistrates

Courts and Primary Courts within the Province;

(c) exercise such other jurisdiction and powers as Parliament may, by law

provide.

! ,

\

l t

5

(4) Every such High Court shall have jurisdiction to issue, according to law-

(a) orders in the nature of habeas corpus, in respect of persons illegally

detained within the Province; and

(b) order in the nature of writs of certiorari, prohibition, procedendo,

mandamus and quo warranto against any person exercising, within

the Province, any power under-

(5) ...... .

(6) ...... .

(i) any law; or

(ii) any statutes made by the Provincial Council established for

that Province, (emphasis added)

The Petitioners issue is that the letter of appointment issued by the Wayambe

Machinery Authority, has no force or avail in law because it was done without their

consent and the said Authority has no power or authority to chance the employment

status of the Petitioners, who were appointed by the public service commission of

the NWPC. As I pointed out earlier, the said Wayamba Machinery Authority has

been established under the North Western Machinery and Equipment Authority

Statute, No. 09 of 1992 of North Western Provincial Council. The Preamble says

that the purpose of enacting the statute is to establish the said authority to put in to

maximum use and to protect and maintain the machinery within and belongs to the

NWPC.

This statute is in operation only within the North-Western Provence. Its idea

is to protect and put in to maximum use of properties belongs to the NWPC. This

statute has no application to any other part of the country. Under Article 154P (4) of

the Constitution, exclusive jurisdiction of matters in this nature is vested on the

Provincial High Court of North Western Province.

High Court for the North Western Province has been established and the

Chief Justice has nominated the Judges for the said Court. Therefore, at the time of

institution of this action, the High Court of North Western Province was in

operation. Therefore, the exclusive jurisdiction on any application to have a mandate

in the nature of a writ against any person exercising, within the North-Western

1 1 I I

6

Province, any power under any law or any statutes made by the North-Western

Provincial Council established for the North-Western Province is vested with the

Provincial High Court of the North Western Province.

For the reasons stated above, I uphold the preliminary objection. The

application is dismissed for the want of jurisdiction.

No costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

K.T.Chitrasiri J.

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

j

~ ,

\