==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA 217/2011 HC PANADURA CASE NO.2265/2006

Sukith Weerakoon No: 87/01, Menerigama, Hadapangoda.

APPELLENT Vs. Hon. Attorney General Attorney General’s Department Colombo 12.

RESPONDENT

~ ( I 1 I

J ,

1

CA 217/2011

HC PANADURA CASE NO.2265/2006

Before:

Counsel:

Sisira J de Abrew, J. Acting (PICA) P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J.

Neranjan Jayasinghe for Accused-Appellant.

Dilan Ratnayake SSC for AG.

Decided On:21.11.20 13.

Sisira J de Abrew, J.

Accused-Appellant IS present in Court produced by the

Prison Authorities.

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases. The

accused-appellant in this case was convicted for committing the

offence of cUlpable homicide not amounting to murder to a person

named Prageeth Visudda Rajapakshe and was sentenced to a term

of five years rigorous imprisonment, to pay a fine of Rs. 10,0001-

carrying a default sentence of six months simple imprisonment

and to pay a sum of Rs. 200,0001- to one Korale Kankanamge

Somawathie who is the mother of the deceased person carrying a

default sentence one year simple imprisonment. Learned Counsel

I\

{ 2

1 I

1 appearing for the accused-appellant does not challenge the

j

J

conviction but submits that the sentence imposed by the

learned trial judge is excessive.

Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as follows:

The accused-appellant who was coming from a wedding ceremony

on the day of the incident could not start his motor cycle on his

way home. One Gayan Sanjeewa, Gamini and Thusara came to his

help. At this time the deceased person who was coming on a

motor cycle flashing its head light stopped at the place where the

accused-appellant had stopped. There was an exchange of words

with regard to the flashing of the light. The three people Gayan

Sanjeewa, Gamini and Thusara separated both the deceased

person and the accused-appellant. In fact the three male persons

mentioned above took the deceased person near his motor cycle.

The deceased person thereafter came near the accused-appellant

and assaulted him. At that time the accused person was seated on

his motor cycle. Thereafter the accused-appellant stabbed the

deceased person. At the time of the incident the deceased person

('\../' was 27 years old. maH". The accused person was only a 19 year .

old man. When we consider all these matters, we are of the

opinion that the sentence imposed by the learned High Court

I

\ I

I I I

3

Judge is highly exceSSIve. We, therefore set-aside the sentence

and imposed the following sentence.

We sentence the accused-appellant to a term of three years

rigorous imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs. 10,000 j - carrying

a default sentence of three months simple imprisonment. Both

Counsel admit that the accused-appellant, after the conviction,

has not been released on bail. We direct the Prison Authorities to

implement the sentence imposed by this Court from the date of

sentencing by the learned trial judge (02.12.2011). We direct the

learned High Court Judge of Panadura to issue a fresh committal

indicating the sentence imposed by this Court. Subject to the

above variation of the sentence the appeal of the accused-appellant

is dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

Mmj-.