==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA Case No. 16104 (F)

DC Colombo No. 1871411

In the matter of an application

for interim relief

1. Agampodi Kamalawathie De

Soysa,

2. Indrani Gunasekera nee De

Soysa

Both of 430 I 1, Maligawa

Pedesa, Boralasgamuwa.

Plaintiff-Appellant-

Petitioners

-Vs-

Ranamuka Devage Siri Wijaya

4 79 I 1, Sudharma Road,

W anawasala, Kelaniya.

Defendant-Respondent-

Respondent

Before A. W .A. Salam, J. &

Sunil Rajapakshe, J.

Counsel Dr. Jayatissa De Costa P.C. with Lahiru N. Silva

for the Plaintiff-Appellant-Petitioners

Decided on: 15.03.2013

A.W.A. SALAM, J.

This order relates to an application dated 26 February

2013 made by the plaintiff-appellant-petitioners

seeking inter alia an order against the respondents

restraining him from constructing any structure

including permanent structures on the subject matter

of this appeal until the final determination. The

petitioners have further sought an interim order

against the respondent directing him to maintain the

status quo of the subject matter of the appeal until its

final determination. The learned Presidents Counsel

who supported the application on 12th March 2013

adverted us to Section 669 of the Civil Procedure Code

and Rule 2 of the Court of Appeal (appellate procedure)

Rule 1990 published in the gazette of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka extraordinary-under

reference No 645/4 dated 15th January 1991. For

2

purpose of ready reference the Section of the Civil

Procedure Code, namely 669 relied upon by the learned

Presidents Counsel in support of his application is

reproduced below.

669 - The court may, on the application of any party to

an action, and on such terms as it thinks fit-

(A) make an application for the detention, preservation,

or inspection and survey of any property being the

subject of such action;

(b) for all or any of the purposes aforesaid authorize

any person to enter upon or into any land or building

in the possession of any other party to such action; and

(C) for all or any of the purposes aforesaid authorise

any samples to be taken or any observation to be made,

or experiment to be tried, which may seem necessary or

expedient for the purpose of obtaining full information

or evidence.

On a clear reading of section 669 of the Civil Procedure

Code it reveals that the order for detention,

preservation or inspection of property is to be made in

respect of an action and nowhere in this section it

states that such an order can be made in the course of

an appeal preferred under Section 754 of the code. In

my opinion, the learned President's Counsel has totally

3

misconstrued Section 669 as being applicable at the

stage of hearing an appeal.

The Court of Appeal appellate procedure Rules 1990-

Rule - to wit: rule 2 cited by the learned Presidents

Counsel is applicable to an application made to the

Court of Appeal and not to an appeal preferred against

a judgment under Section 754 of the Code.

In the circumstances, the application made by the

petitioners pending the determination of the civil

appeal for interim relief has been totally misconstrued.

Hence, the application of the petitioners seeking

interim reliefs in this matter stands rejected. There

shall be no costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Sunil Raiapakshe, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

KPM/-

4