==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

High Court (Negombo)

Case No: HC 181/09

C.A. Case No: 293/2012

In the matter of a petition of appeal in

terms of section 331 (1) of the Code of

Criminal Procedure Act No 15 of 1979

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

lanka.

Hon. Attorney General,

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

Complainant

Vs.

1. Suraveera Arachchige Kamalasiri,

No. 215,

05 Patumaga,

Abagahahena Nawa Janapadhaya,

Badalgama.

1

JIiI

l

IIiiII!

l

2. Walpitagamage Chandana

Kumara, No. 63, 03 Patumaga,

Abagahahena.

3. Wijethunga Mudiyanselage

Pradeep Kumara alias Thushara,

No.71, 04 Patumaga, Nawa

Janapadhaya, Bavalgama.

Accused

AND

NOW

4. Suraveera Arachchige Kamalasiri,

No. 215,

05 Patumaga,

Abagahahena Nawa Janapadhaya,

Badalgama.

5. Walpitagamage Chandana

Kumara, No. 63, 03 Patumaga,

Abagahahena.

2

BEFORE

COUNSEL

6. Wijethunga Mudiyanselage

Pradeep Kumara alias Thushara,

No.71, 04 Patumaga, Nawa

Janapadhaya, Bavalgama.

Accused Appellants

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General,

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

Complainant Respondent

H.N.J. PERERA, J

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J

Chandana Sri Nissanka for the 1st

And 2nd Accused Appellant.

P. Kumararatnam D.S.G for the

Respondent.

3 I1I ,r

ARGUED ON 18.11.2014

DECIDED ON 19.03.2015

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J

Indrani was woken up in the night since she was at once unable to breathe.

She found that Kamalasiri had been squeezing her neck and mouth. He raised

her skirt, inserted his male organ into her vegina and had intercourse for about

15 minutes. After that, he having wiped his male organ with her blouse and

went away. She couldn't shout due to her neck and mouth being squeezed.

Just then, Wasantha entered and he too inserted the male organ into her

vegina and remained for about 15 minutes. After he left she was going out

4

thinking to tell the people of the house in front but, she couldn't do so.

Thushara came into the house, dragged her back to the place where she was

and attempted to squeeze her neck and mouth. He asked her for what was

given to others. He got on her body, raised the skirt and inserted the male

organ to her vegina and had sex for about ten minutes. She fainted and only at

12 noon of the following day, she woke up. In the evening, she told Hemalatha

her sister in law residing close by about this. Indrani didn't go to police as she

was threatened by the offenders, not to go to the police. Her husband who

was working at a brick kiln came after 3 days. But, he went back to his work

place the following morning advising her to go to the police and make a

complaint.

All three offenders were known to Indrani as they were from the same village.

She identified them at the time of the incident for two reasons. One is that

their voices were familiar to her. The other is the moonlight that infiltrated

through the polythene sheet that covered the window.

5

Indrani made a complaint to the police several days after the incident. She had

an explanation for the delay, that was the fear due to the threat made by

those three. On Monday, as she knew that Kamalasiri was to go to Bingiriya for

a court case, she went to the police.

Suraveera Arachchige Kamalasiri, Walpitagama Chandana Kumara alias

Wasantha and Wijetunga Mudiyaselage Pradeep Kumara alias Pradeep

Thushara were indicted for "gang rape" punishable under Sec. 364 (2) (F) of

the Penal Code. They were convicted after trial and the sentence of 12 years of

imprisonment was passed and a fine of Rs. 5000/= was imposed each carrying

a default sentence of 3 months simple imprisonment. In addition, a

compensation of Rs.20,OOO/= to be paid to the victim by each carrying a

default sentence of 12 months simple imprisonment. Being dissatisfied with

the said conviction and the sentence, the Accused Appellants have preferred

this appeal before this court.

The learned counsel for the 1st and 2nd Accused Appellants submitted that the

tests of probability, inconsistency and credibility were failed in the prosecution

6

case. The prosecutrix had made a belated complaint. The learned counsel

argued that prosecutrix's version had not been corroborated by the medical

evidence.

The learned counsel for the 3rd Accused Appellant contended that the

credibility of the evidence of the prosecutrix was very poor and the whole

story revealed by Indrani was inherently improbable. He emphasized the

following facts revealed by Indrani in her evidence. The 1st Accused had been

indentified on his own introduction. She couldn't raised cry when all three did

the act of sex, because she had been held by her neck and mouth by them. The

1st Accused Appellant had told her at the time of the incident of rape that he

was going to Bingiriya for a court case. Indrani, in the short history given to the

Judicial Medical Officer has stated that the Accused were armed with a sword.

The learned counsel argued therefore, the totality of the circumstances causes

suspicion. He further argued that the involvement of the 3rd Accused Appellant

in the incident of raping Indrani is highly unbelievable as the 3rd Accused

7

Irf

Il !•If

II

f

Ii

lI

tlI

~'

f

f it r

Appellant had been the boy friend of Indrani's daughter, according to the

evidence of Indrani.

The learned State Counsel who made submissions supporting the conviction

invited the attention of court to the evidence of Indrani. He pOinted out that

Indrani had begged the 3rd Accused Appellant for the reason why she was

being harassed despite her innocence. He submitted that this showed the

genuineness of the witness.

It is obvious that there is no direct evidence that corroborates the verity of

Indrani's evidence. Hemalatha and her husband, the other two witnesses say

what Indrani had told them. Indrani had divulged the incident to Hemalatha in

the evening of the next day. Still for all the learned trial judge has come to the

conclusion that he decides that Indrani's evidence was acceptable in relation to

the incident on the criteria of tests of probability and credibility. He has

followed the principle laid down in Keerthi Bandara Vs. A.G1 that belated

complaint should not be rejected provided that the delay has been

substantiated acceptably. The explanation of Indrani that she was reluctant to

8

fi

go to the police because the Accused Appellants were thugs of the village ((S)~

e>d) has been accepted by the learned trial judge. Both occurrence of the

rape and the reason for the delay in complaining to the police are the

questions of facts. It was held in Dharmasiri V. Republic of Sri Lanka2 that

evidence of the witness should not be rejected on the ground of delay itself of

the delay has been reasonably explained. The Supreme Court has decided that

deciding on the questions of facts is a duty of the trial judge and the court of

appeal should not intervene in such decisions.

It was held in AG Vs Mary Theresa3

"Credibility is a question of fact and not law. Appellate Judges

have repeatedly stressed the importance of trial Judges'

observations of the demeanour of witnesses in deciding questions

of fact. Demeanour represents the trial Judges' opportunity to

observe the witness and his deportment. "

Shirani Thilakawardane J. in agreement with Sripavan J. (as he then was) and

Imam J. in the said judgment of the Supreme Court has further held

9

ff,

I

tr,

t I!I

fIIIi

;I

I

1 • I I I

"Whilst internal contradictions or discrepancies would ordinarily

affect the trustworthiness of the witness statement, it is well

established that the court must exercise its judgment on the

nature of the inconsistency or contradiction and whether they are

material to the facts in issue. Discrepancies which do not go to the

root of the matter and assail the basic version of the witness

cannot be given too much importance".

All three Accused Appellants in their dock statements had stated that each of

them had a affair with Indrani's daughter. Indrani was against the said affairs

and that was the reason for Indrani's leveling an allegation against them. The

learned trial judge had rejected those statements for the reason that the said

statements were devoid of probability and credibility. When considering the

facts involved in the instant case with the conclusion of the trial judge, there

exists no question of law to be decided by this court other than the correctness

of findings by the trial judge.

10

II i I If III

t

I ! ! i It

It was held in Mary Theresa Case

" An appellate court has no jurisdiction to upset the trial findings of facts that

have evidentiary support. The Court of Appeal improperly substitutes its view of

the facts of a case when it seems for whatever reason to replace the findings

made by the trial judge 1/.

As discussed above, we see no reason to interfere with the findings of the

learned trial judge in convicting the Accused Appellants for the charges leveled

against them. Therefore, we confirm the conviction and the sentence by the

trial court and dismiss the Appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

H.N.J. PERERA J

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

1. (2000) 2 SLR 245

2. (2010) 2 SLR 241

3. 2011 2 SLR 292

11

,II

f I

f

I

I,.

f I

i l

rl