==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

1. Uduma Lebbe Ameer, 2. Najeem (deceased) 3. Adambawa Paleel 4. Anwar Thambi

Accused -Appellan ts

Vs.

The Attorney General,

Respondent

C.A.118-119/2010

H.C. Kalmunai Case No: 22/2008

Before Sisira J. de Abrew,J. (Acting PiCA) &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

Counsel Dr. Ranjit Fernando with Ms. Samanthi Rajapakshe

for the Accused-Appellants.

Ms. A. Jinasena DSG. for the A.G.

Argued &

Decided on 29.01.2014

1

If

i!

~,.i.r

Sisira J. de Abrew,J.(Acting PICA)

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases. The accused-

appellants in this case were convicted for the offence of house trespass

which is an offence punishable under section 436 of the Penal Code. They

were also convicted of the offence of robbery which is an offence punishable

under Section 383 of the Penal Code. On the count under Section 436 of

the Penal Code, they were sentenced to a term of 10 years Rigorous

Imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs: 10,000/- carrying a default sentence

of one year Rigorous Imprisonment. On the charge of robbery they were

sentenced to a term of 10 years Rigorous Imprisonment and to pay a fine

Rs: 15000/ - carrying a default sentence of two years Rigorous Imprisonment.

The learned trial Judge directed that both terms of imprisonment should

run consecutively. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentences

they have appealed to this Court. Learned counsel appearing for the

accused-appellant submits that he does not challenge the conviction. He

only makes an application to set aside the direction of the learned trial

Judge wherein he directed that both terms of imprisonment should run

consecutively. According to the facts of this case, the accused-appellants

have entered the house of the complainant and roobed jewellery worth

Rs:38,000 / - and Rs: 2000/-. When we consider the offence that they have

committed, we feel a term of 20 years l on both counts) will oe highly

exceSSIve. We therefore direct that both terms of imprisonment on the

Count under Section 436 and on Count under Sectio:1 383 of tLe Penal

2

! i

t!t

JI

Code should run concurrently. This direction is 2.pplicable to all the

accused-appellants. Learned Trial Judge is directed to issue a fresh

committal indicating the direction of this court. Uduma Lebbe Ameer (the

1 st accused) and Adambawa Paleel (the 3rd accused) are present in Court.

Najeem is dead. The 4th accused Anwar Thamby has been tried in absentia.

Both Uduma Lebbe Ameer and Adambawa Paleel are present in Court

produced by the Prison Authorities. We direct the Prison Authorities to

implement the sentence imposed on the 1 st and the 3 rd accused from the

date of sentencing by the learned trial Judge. The direction to implement the

sentence from the date of sentencing will not be applicable to the 4th

accused appellant (Anwer Thambi) who has been tried in absentia. Subject

to the above variation, of the sentence, the appeals of the appellants are

dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

Acting President of the Court of Ap:.::-:::al

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake,J.

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Jmrj-

3

I

( If

IItI i f !I

[