==== BLOCKS ==== 

• IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A.(PHC) NO.197/2001

In the matter of an Appeal in terms of Article 154P (6) of the Constitution read with Rule 2(1) of the Court of Appeal (procedure for Appeals from the High Court established by Article 154P of the Constitution) Rules 1988.

Nelson Bernard Hettiarachchi of No.B.9/4, National Housing Development Houses, Crows Island, Colombo 15, and presently ofNo.384/2-A, Gonahena, Kadawatha.

Respondent-Petitioner-Appellant

PHC COLOMBO CASE NO.860/97 (RE\,) M.C.COLOMBO CASE NO.7S0S7/S

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

Vs.

S.B.Bandusena, Secretary, Ministry of Fisheries, Maligawatta, Colombo 10.

Applicant-Respondent-Respondent

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J.

H.N.J.PERERA, J

Sanath Jayathillaka, Attorney -at- Law for the Respondent-Petitioner-Appellant

P.Ranasinghe, Deputy Solicitor General with H.P.Ekanayake, Senior State Counsel for the Applicant-Respondent -Respondent

15TH NOVEMBER 2011

14TH DECEMBER 2011

2

CHITRASIRI, J.

This is an application to set aside the judgment of the learned High Court

Judge of Colombo in the Revision Application filed by the respondent-petitioner-

appellant (hereinafter referred to as the appellant) wherein he affirmed the order of the

learned Magistrate of Colombo made in the application filed in terms of the

Government Quarters (Recovery of Possession) Act No.7 of 1969, as amended

subsequently. (hereinafter referred to as GQROP Act) In that order, learned

Magistrate issued a writ of possession allowing an application made by the applicant-

respondent-respondent (hereinafter referred to as the respondent) to obtain possession

of the premises referred to in the quit notice dated 25.04.1995 (page 217 of the brief)

sent by the respondent to the appellant.

Prior to the filing of action in the Magistrate's Court; respondent sent the

aforesaid quit notice to the appellant directing him to hand over possession of the

premises referred to in the quit notice. Consequently, since the appellant did not

comply with the said directive mentioned in the quit notice, respondent filed the said

application in the Magistrate's Court of Colombo on 21 sl February 1996 (page 219 of

the brief). Learned Magistrate refused the said application of the respondent for the

reason that the respondent was not properly authorized to act under the GQROP Act.

Failure to obtain possession of the premises by instituting the said action in the

Magistrate's Court resulted in filing a similar application by the respondent once again

in the Magistrate's Court of Colombo in terms of the provisions contained in the same

3

GQROP Act. In the affidavit filed along with the subsequent application dated 17th

December 1996, respondent had stated that he is properly authorized to act under the

GQROP Act. The authority given to the respondent was supported by letter dated 21 st

December 1996 (page 176 of the brief marked V 4) issued by the Secretary to the

Ministry of Public Administration who is the Secretary to the Minister in charge of the

subject.

The appellant, in this subsequent action too, challenged the authority given to

the respondent. This matter was carefully considered by the learned High Court Judge

and had correctly held that the respondent had been properly authorized by the said

letter dated 21.12.1996. Learned Counsel for the appellant did not challenge the

contents of the letter of authority at any stage. Therefore, I am not inclined to accept

the position that the respondent was not properly authorized to file action in terms of

the GQROP Act.

Having received summons in the subsequent case, appellant appeared before

the learned Magistrate on 4th February 1997. On that date he was given time to show

cause why he should not be evicted from the premises in suit. Accordingly, the

appellant filed submissions showing cause for him to remain in possession and

objected to the writ being issued. However, the learned Magistrate made order issuing

writ to evict the appellant from the premises in suit. Apparently, no reasons were

assigned by the learned Magistrate for this decision to issue the writ.

Being aggrieved by the said order of the learned Magistrate, appellant filed a

Revision Application in the High Court of Colombo. Learned High Court Judge,

having considered the merits of the case, dismissed the revision application stating that

4

the Magistrate need not assign reasons when issuing a writ in an application filed

under the GQROP Act. The appellant thereafter filed this appeal challenging the said

decision of the learned High Court Judge as well as the learned Magistrate. Therefore,

the main issue in this instance is to ascertain whether it is necessary to consider the

merits of the case before issuing writ, in a case filed in terms of the provisions

contained in the GQROP Act.

Contention of the learned Counsel for the appellant was that the order made by

the learned Magistrate without assigning reasons is bad in law as it also amounts to

violation of principles of natural justice.

thus:-

Section 7 (1) of the Govt. Quarters' (Recovery of Possession) Act stipulates

"Upon receipt of an application for ejectment in respect of any Government quarters, a Magistrate's Court shall forthwith issue, and if need be reissue, a writ of possession to the Fiscal requiring and authorizing such Fiscal before a date specified in the writ, not being a date earlier than three or later than seven clear days from the date of the issue of such writ, to deliver possession of such quarters to the competent authority or other authorized person specified in the quit notice relating to such premises. Such writ shall be sufficient authority for the said Fiscal or any police officer authorized by him in that behalf to enter such quarters with such assistants as the Fiscal or such officer shall deem necessary and to give possession accordingly, and to eject the occupier and his dependents, if any, from such quarters".

Looking at the plain reading of the aforesaid Section, it is clear that the

Magistrate shall issue a writ of possession upon filing an application under GQROP

Act even without informing the person against whom such an application is made.

Also, it seems that it is only a ministerial act of a Magistrate to give effect to a

decision of a person who is authorized under the law to have the assistance of the

5

fiscal in a Court of Law in order to obtain possession of the buildings claimed to be

owned by the Government.

However, the learned Counsel for the appellant advanced an argument that the

person against whom the application is made should be given an opportunity to

present his case to the Magistrate before issuing writ. He has further contended that it

would amount to violation of the principles of natural justice if such an opportunity is

not afforded to such a person. In support of his argument, he has basically relied upon

the case of M.A.Prema de Silva vs. The Special Commissioner, Anuradhapura in C.

A. Application No.902/82. In that decision His Lordship Sarath N. Silva 1. (as he then

was) held that the Magistrate has the jurisdiction to examine the correctness of certain

matters stated in the report or certificate upon which a particular action is filed. In that

case it was further held that there is no provision under section 165 A (4) of the Urban

Council Ordinance removing the ordinary jurisdiction of the Magistrate's Court to

consider the basic validity of the imposition of the tax that is to be recovered. Learned

Counsel for the appellant also relied upon the decision of Bandahamy V.

Senanayake 62 NLR at page 313 where it was held that the party against whom the

award is sought to be enforced should be noticed and given an opportunity of showing

the existence of defects. Accordingly, the learned Counsel for the appellant argued

that the learned Magistrate should have considered the submissions made by the

appellant in the Magistrate's Court and given reasons for his decision before issuing

writ of possession to evict the appellant from the premises in suit.

Contention of the learned Counsel for the respondent was that it is not

necessary to give an opportunity to a person who had been served with a quit notice

6

under the provisions of the GQROP Act before issuing writ in a case filed there under.

He depended solely on the case of In Re D.S.E.P.R.Senanayake (Inspector General

of Police) 75 NLR at page 215. In that case Samarawickreme, J held that when an

application to evict a person from Govt. Quarters is made ex parte, in regular and

proper form, under the Govt. Quarters (Recovery of Possession) Act, the Magistrate

has, in the first instance, no option but to issue writ of possession forthwith in terms of

section 7 of the Act.

At this stage, it is pertinent to note that the cases cited by the learned Counsel

for the appellant had been instituted either to recover taxes levied by the Government

or fines imposed by authorities' such as the Commissioner of labour or the

Commissioner of Cooperatives. The case of, M.A.Prema De Silva V s. The Special

Commissioner Anuradhapura (supra) was filed to collect taxes imposed by the

Urban Council of Anuradhapura. Bandahamy Vs. Senanayake (supra) was filed to

recover monies due under the Co-operative Societies Ordinance. I have also looked

into the cases referred to in the judgment of His Lordship Justice Sarath N. Silva and

found that all those cases cited in that judgment also do not refer to any case filed in

terms of the GQROP Act. In that judgment two cases namely A. T.Duraiappah vs.

The Municipal Commissioner Jaf/na 73 NLR page 230 and The Chairman Village

Committee of Gandahe South vs. P.B.Hippola 61 NLR page 236 had been referred

to and in both cases the matters in issue were to recover audit charges imposed under

the Municipal Council Ordinance and the Village Committee Ordinance respectively.

The case referred to in 68 NLR at Page 168 namely Ahdulally vs. Assistant

Government Agent Jaf/na too had been filed to recover taxes due under the Heavy

Oil Motor Vehicles Taxation Ordinance. In the case of W.Barnes de Silva vs.

7

Galkissa-Wattarappola Co-op. Stores Society, 54 NLR page 326 also was a case to

recover money under an award made by a person duly authorized under the Co-

operative Societies Ordinance. Therefore, it is seen that the learned Counsel for the

appellant has not referred to a single authority to support his argument citing a case

filed in terms of the GQROP Act.

To the contrary, the authority namely In Re D.S.E.P.R.Senanayake (Inspector

General of Police) (supra), cited by the learned Deputy Solicitor General had been

filed directly under the GQROP Act. In that decision Samarawickrama J had

extensively dealt with the issue referring to the provisions contained in the GQROP

Act, particularly to the Section 7 of the Act.

Therefore, it is my opinion that the authorities cited by the learned Counsel for

the appellant should be identified differently with that of the case referred to by the

learned Counsel for the respondent when applying the law referred to in the GQROP

Act. Therefore, I am not inclined to apply the law referred to by the learned Counsel

for the Appellant in this instance as those cases do not discuss the manner in which the

provisions of the GQROP Act is worded.

It is now necessary to refer to the provisions contained in the GQROP Act. As

I have discussed herein before, plain reading of Section 7 (1) of the GQROP Act

requires a Magistrate to issue writ immediately after an application is filed under the

Act. This Section reads thus:

"Upon receipt of an application for ejectment in respect of any Government quarters, a Magistrate's Court shall forthwith issue writ of possession .............. "

Therefore, it is clear that the object of the Legislature when enacting this Act

had been to allow a person who is properly authorized to obtain possession of

Government quarters immediately after filing action under the Act, avoiding delay that

may take place due to litigation. Hence, it is my considered view that the object of

8

having Section 7 is to prevent, even notice being given to a person who is to be

evicted from occupying government quarters. As I have stated earlier in this judgment,

in such a situation the Magistrate is merely performing a ministerial act.

Furthermore, it is important to note that a person who is wrongly evicted by

making use of the provisions of the GQROP Act, is not without a remedy in such a

situation. The remedy is found in Section 7(2) (b) in the amending Act No. 45 of 1985.

It reads thus:

Section 7(b)(3)

"Nothing in this Act shall be read and construed as precluding

any person who claims to have been unlawfullyejectedfrom Government quarters under this section from instituting an action for damages or other relief ".

This provision of law recognizes a statutory right to a person who is wrongly

evicted of claiming damages. Therefore, such a person is not without a remedy.

However, it must be noted that such a person should complain only after complying

with the directive issued by a person who is authorized to do so. At this stage, I may

state that this process could even be justified since such a directive is issued only after

taking the responsibility as to the correctness of the facts by filing an affidavit in

Courts by the person who makes the application. In the event a false declaration is

made in the affidavit, the person filing action could even be dealt with for contempt of

court.

Furthermore, it is seen that several steps are to be taken before filing action

under the GQROP Act in order to obtain a writ of possession. A proper quit notice

should be sent to the person to be evicted. The applicant has to be properly authorized

to file action. Such a person should file an affidavit stating that the premises claimed

in the application belong to the Government and that he had complied with all the pre-

9

requisites referred to in the Act. This procedure also would help to prevent causing

injustice to a person who is to be subjected to the provisions contained in the GQROP

Act.

Accordingly, I am not inclined to accept the argument advanced by the learned

Counsel for the appellant that it is bad in law for the learned Magistrate, not to assign

reasons in the impugned order violating the rules of natural justice. In the

circumstances, it is my considered view that a Magistrate should issue a writ of

possession in favour of the applicant who makes an application under section 7 of the

Govt. Quarters (Recovery of Possession) Act without affording an opportunity to

show cause to the person who is to be evicted from the premises in suit.

For the reasons mentioned above, I dismiss the appeal with costs.

Appeal is dismissed with costs.

H.N.J.PERERA. J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

C.A.(PHC)Appeal No. 197/2001 P.H.C.Colombo N 0.860/97

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

K.T.Chitrasiri, I.

K.T.Chitrasiri, J.

H.N.J.Perera, J

Sanath Jayathilake for the Appellant

K.A.P.Ranasinghe DSG with H.P.Ekanayake SC for the

Respondent.

02.01.2012.

Heard both Counsel in support of the leave to appeal application filed by

the learned Counsel for the appellant.

Having considered the submissions on the suggested substantial questions r

of law, we are of the view that there is no merit in this application. Therefore we

refuse the application for leave to appeal against the judgment dated 14.12.2011.

H.N.I.Perera, I

I agree.

KLP/-

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL