==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A 82511998 (F)

L. Supulawathie de Silva of Sirisena Mawatha, Balapitiya.

PLAINTIFF -APPELLANT

D.C Balapitiya 1008/L

Vs.

1. P. Hector Silva of Ahungalla (dead) 2. P. Gnanasiri de Silva of Ahungalla 3. T. Ginasiri de Silva of Ahungalla

DEFENDANT -RESPONDENTS

BEFORE: Anil Gooneratne J.

COUNSEL: R.C. Gooneratne for the Plaintiff-Appellant

N. Wijesekera for the 2nd Defendant-Respondent

ARGUED ON: 25.08.2011

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON :

10.08.2011 (Both parties)

DECIDED ON; 08.11.2011

2

GOONERA TNE J.

The Plaintiff-Appellant filed action in the District Court of Balapitiya

on or about July 1985 to obtain a declaration of title to the land described in

the schedule to the plaint and to eject/damages against the Defendants. At

the trial two admissions were recorded, viz. the corpus admitted and as

pleaded in the answer of the 1 st &2nd Defendants by deed No. 1113 (PI) the

3rd Defendant transferred the land in dispute to the Garumani Dabalias Nona.

The 3rd Defendant did not file answer and no relief sought against him.

Parties proceeded to trial on 10 issues. This appeal arises from the judgment

of the District Court dated 19.8.1998 where the learned District Judge

dismissed the Plaintiff-Appellant's action. Plaintiff never gave evidence in

the District Court. The Plaintiff relied on the evidence of the 3 rd Defendant

and officials of the Pradeshiya Sabha and a Surveyor.

In order to understand this case it should be noted that Plaintiff

depends on deed P2 of 3.5.1985 (No. 1791) and by which the 3rd Defendant

transferred the property in dispute to Plaintiff. Deed PI was executed on

9.7.1969, which was a conditional transfer a transfer subject to re-transfer by

1 year (redeemable in 1 year). The 3rd Defendant failed to redeem the

conditional deed. The position of the Plaintiff-Appellant in short is that 1

3

year after execution of PI, the 3 rd Defendant continued to possess the land in

dispute and acquired prescriptive title. As such Plaintiff-Appellant relies on

deed P2 and more particularly on the prescriptive title of the 3rd Defendant.

The learned counsel for Plaintiff-Appellant urge the following

matters in his written submissions.

(a) The 3rd Defendant was the original owner of the property in dispute.

(It is pleaded in paragraph 2 of the plaint, but the learned District

Judge reject this position as deed PI refer to another deed as well)

(b) 3rd Defendant failed to redeem the conditional transfer.

(c) 3rd Defendant possessed the land III dispute from July 1970 and

acquired prescriptive title.

(d) Contesting 1 st & 2nd Defendants forcibly entered the land on or about

May 1985.

(e) Refer to the case of Chelliah V s. Wijenathan 54 NLR 337 ... Burden

of Proof on party asserting to establish a starting point for his

acquisition of prescriptive rights.

(f) Reference to items of evidence of 3 rd Defendant.

(i) continuous possession after conditional transfer

(ii) possession against Dabalias Nona the transferee in deed Pl.

4

(iii) Rely on cross examination (pg. 205) of 3rd Defendant about no

issue with Dabalias Nona or that Dabalias Nona never disputed 3rd

Defendant's possession.

(iv) That (pg. 1691170) possession was undisturbed and uninterrupted-

relies on Calocterie Goeroenseiagey vs. Don Chritian Aratchi

Morgan's Digest. Pgs. 169 & 170 ...

"There are two points regarding the law of Prescription that should always

be well borne in mind ... the first is that a possessor is always presumed to

hold in his own right, and as proprietor, until the contrary be demonstrate;

the second, that the contrary once established and it being shown that the

possession commenced by virtue of some other title, such as that of a

tenant or planter, then the possession is to be presumed to have continued

to hold on the same terms, until he distinctly proves that his title has

changed"

(v) Fact that 3rd Defendant possessed with the leave and licence of the

above named Dabalias Nona never suggested in evidence by 1 st &

2nd Defendant

(vi) 3rd defendant plucked coconuts 3 times a year prior to conveyance

by deed P2 to Plaintiff.

(vii) 3rd Defendant owner of adjoining land used lavatory continuously

in land in dispute.

(viii) House with the land bearing No. 16170 paid rates from 1977. P3 -

P 12. Resided till 1974. Thereafter a cousin of Defendant resided

(Desin de Silva).

5

(ix) Barbed WIre fence cut down. Poultry shed of 1 st defendant

demolished.

(x) Children of Dabalias Nona never came to the village after her

death.

(xi) 3rd defendant possession from 1970 not challenged.

Reference made to Fernando vs. Wijesooriya 48 NLR 320 ...

Canekaratne J. There must be a corporeal occupation of land attended with a manifest

intention to hold and continue it and when the intent plainly is to hold the land against

the claim of all other persons, the possession is hostile or adverse to the rights of the

true owner"

Wijesundera v Dasa 1987 2 SLR 66 ...

G.P.S. de Silva J. It seems clear that possession by the predecessors in title of the

defendants themselves is adverse in the sense that their possession is

incompatible with the title of the plaintiffs and their predecessors - in title

(xii) Contesting Defendant did not lead evidence to show that Dabalias

Nona and her heirs possessed the land in dispute

(xiii) The payment of rates from 1977, the 3rd Defendant possession

became adverse - refer to Section 110 of the Evidence Ordinance.

As such contesting Defendant should establish that possession

6

prior to 1977 by 3rd Defendant was not as owner. Respondent have

failed to establish same.

(g) Action to be decided on issues, the contesting Defendant did not

formulate any issue that the 3rd Defendant possessed the land with the

leave and licence of Dabalias Nona.

(h) Following material provided by appellant as regards the lapses in the

District Judge's judgment.

(i) District Judge's finding that 3rd Defendant possessed with Dabalias

Nona's permission or consent not maintainable and it is incorrect.

Continued possession by the 3rd Defendant from the date on which the

property had to be redeemed would tum to be adverse possession or

3rd Defendant's possession would becomes adverse. As such an overt

act to change the character of possession not necessary. 3rd Defendant-

Appellant relies on Alwis vs. Perera 21 NLR 321 ...

De Sampayo 1. "Where a person transferred his lands to certain family connections, but

continued in possession till date of action (sixty years), the Supreme Court

held (in the circumstances) that the possession was not permissive, but that

it should be presumed to have become adverse."

Tillekeratne v. Bastian followed

Semble, even apart from this presumption, a vendor, who after sale

remains in possession, should be considered as possession adversely to the

purchaser.

7

Wijesundera v dasa 1987(1) SLR 65 at pgs 69-70 ...

G.P.S de Silva held "the fact that the defendants knew that the new owner after the sale

was the 151 defendant's husband is not a bar to the defendant's claim to a

prescriptive title, but rather tends to strengthen their claim, having regard

to all the facts and circumstances of the case.

(ii) The learned District Judge accepts the 3rd defendant's evidence that he

continued to possess this land. But he hold that such possession was with

the knowledge of Dabilis Nona. Therefore to establish prescription an

overt act is necessary to establish prescription .. It is respectfully

submitted that the learned District Judge's finding is a complete

misunderstanding of the concept of "adverse possession" In Tilekeratne v

Bastian 21 N.L.R 12 Bertram C.J said "The effect of the principal is that,

where any person's possession was not originally not adverse, and he

claims that it has become adverse, the onus is on him to prove it, and what

must he prove? He must prove not only an intention to possess adversely,

but a manifestation of the intention to the true owner against whom he sets

up his possession ... Thus it is sometimes said that he must prove an "overt

unequivocal act." In this case, with the execution of the conditional

transfer, marked PI, Dabilias Nona became the owner of the premises. In

the conditional transfer, it is expressly stated "to have and hold the

premises hereby sold and conveyed"

Thus on execution of PI Dabalias Nona is deemed to have obtained

possession. In July 1970, with the failure of the 3rd defendant to redeem

the property, Dabilias Nona became the absolute owner. Therefore the

mere possession thereafter by the 3rd Defendant becomes adverse.

(iii) The learned District Judge holds that with the payment of rates in 1977,

the 3rd defendant's possession became adverse.. It is respectfully

submitted that in terms of section 110 of the Evidence Ordinance "when

8

the question is whether any person is owner of anything of which he is

shown to be in possession, the burden of proving that he is not the owner

who affirms he is not the owner. Therefore, since it is held that possession

from 1977 was adverse to the successors-in-title of the 1

51 and 2nd

defendant, the burden was on the contesting defendants to establish that

the 3rd defendant's possession prior to 1997 was not as owner. This too,

the contesting defendants failed to do.

(i) Appellant emphasis the fact that there is no evidence that the 3

rd

Defendant entered the land with the permission and or approval of G.

Dabalias Nona

U) Essence of an issue to the effect that the 3rd Defendant possessed the

land with the leave and licene of the 3rd Defendant.

(k) Case to be tried on the issues formulated refer to Haniffa V s.Nallama

1998 (1) SLR 72 at pg. 76 "That is relevant for present purposes and what

needs to be stressed is that once issues are framed, the case which the court as to

hear and determine become crystallized in the issues. It is the duty of the court to

record the issues on which the right decision of the case appears to the court to

depend.

(1) Deed PI is fraudulent according to the learned District Judge.

Appellant states that the points suggested by the trial Judge does not

invalidate the deed.

The Defendant-Respondent urge the following:

9

(1) Plaintiff-Appellant never gave evidence in the trial court.

(2) Deed P2 does not refer to a previous deed. It only refer to prescriptive

title.

(3) Refer to contradictory position III deed P2 and the period of

prescription as claimed in his testimony in court by Appellant.

According to deed P 1 it was attested on 9.7.1969. The oral evidence

confirms that possession commenced 1 year after 9.7.1969 i.e in the

1970. In deed P2 it is stated by the date of attestation (May 1985) the

3 rd Respondent has already possessed the land for over 20 years. As

such according to P2 he would have possessed as from 1965.

Evidence in court does not take the starting point of prescriptive

possession to 1965. Oral evidence of 3rd Respondent is that he

commenced possession on 1970.

( 4) Assessment notices produced in the case by the 3 rd Defendant

commences from 1978 and not during the above prescriptive period

from 1965-1985.

(5) The 3rd Defendant's evidence reveal that he ceased to occupy the

small house within the corpus in 1974. One of his brother occupied

from 1975. emphasis that possession was broken by 1974. No

continuous possession.

(6) The requirement III Section 3 of the Prescriptive Ordinance not

satisfied.

10

The entire case of the Appellant rest on the question whether the

alleged possession was permissive or adverse, possession. The facts of this

case has not been made simple enough to conveniently conclude either way.

If possession was properly explained and exemplified it would have been

easier for the Original Court and the Appellate Court to arrive at the required

conclusions of adverse possession. Further, material suggesting some form

of possession has been placed before court only by the 3

rd Defendant.

At this point I refer to Alwis vs. Perera 21 NLR at 326 ...

There is also another point. I wish very much that District Judges - I speak

not particularly, but generally - when a witness says "I possessed" or "we

possessed" or "we took the produce," would not confine themselves merely to

recording the words, but would insist on those words being explained and

exemplified. I wish District Judges would abandon the present practice of simply

recording these words when stated by the witnesses, and would see that such

facts, as the witnesses have in their minds, are stated in full, and appear in the

record. In making this observation I feel sure that I am expressing the mind of all

my colleagues on this Bench. I do not think that Judges of first instance realize the

strong feeling which is entertained in this Court as to the recording of bare

expressions of this nature. I wish that every Judge of first instance would come to

regard it as a personal reproach to himself if he allows such an expression as "I

possessed" or "I took the produce" to appear unexplained on his record.

11

The District Judge however does not reject the position that the

3rd Defendant did not possess the land in question during the relevant period.

The 3rd Defendant has represented the fact that he was the owner of the land

in dispute, at least until deed PI (1113) was executed. But deed PI was a

conditional deed which was not redeemed by the 3rd Defendant. Therefore

Garumani Dabalias Silva on execution of deed PI (subject to conditions)

gets good paper title to the property. There is absolutely a lack of material to

suggest the type of possession the vendee of deed PI G. Dabalias Silva had

to this land. Other than the 3 rd Defendant, the contesting 1 st & 2nd Defendant

had not been able to testify about possession during the period 1969 to 1985.

This is no doubt a question of fact that depends on facts of the

case. Each case on possession need to be examined properly to decide

whether any adverse possession to support a plea of prescription is

established. I am mindful of the learned District Judge's views on suspicious

circumstances mentioned by the trial Judge i.e plaint makes no reference to

dead PI. Deed PI also refer to another deed 33521 of 15.2.1966 which

means 3rd Defendant is not the original owner of the land. No mention of

deed PI in deed P2, No consideration passed when P2 was executed (as in

evidence) though it is stated so in the deed.

12

On the other hand as urged by the Defendant-Respondent the

alleged prescriptive period relied upon by the 3rd Defendant differ in period

with the oral testimony and the averments in deed P2. I also find that the

evidence by the 3rd Defendant of continuous user of a lavatory and plucking

of coconuts at least up to 1984 had not been contradicted. To get on to the

more serious question is whether facts of this case is either similar or goes

parallel to cases on adverse possession as discussed above i.e Alwis vs.

Perera 21 NLR 321 and Tillekeratne vs. Bastian. In other words the vendor

who continued to occupy or possess the land in dispute after affecting a

transfer of property is presumed to have possessed adversely. However bad,

cunning or a schemer the 3rd Defendant was with regard to land transactions,

(could be dealt in law on a different cause of action), notwithstanding

learned District Judge's views, there is some aspect of the case which

suggest 3rd Defendant's possession. The dicta of the cases cited viz.Alwis vs

Perera and Tillekeratne vs Bastian and as stressed by the learned counsel

for Appellant at a glance seems to apply. Appellant's counsel urge, in that

case the learned District Judge accepts Don William's evidence. "It is

perfectly true that the Plaintiff has always lived upon our land by our

permission". In such a case as the Appellant describes, it is not disputed that

an overt act is necessary to change the character of possession. I agree with

13

the contention that there is no evidence at all that the 3rd Defednant entered

the land with Dabalias Nona's permission. It is unsafe to act on inferences or

presume a fact in issue on answers provided to leading questions. But in

evidence there is a strong indication as noted by the learned District Judge

about 3rd Defendant having no dispute with the G. Dabalias Nona. Why is

that? Or what is that? It would have been the best point in evidence to

explain adverse possession by the 3rd defendant. Let me examine the

material that transpired to decide whether it was adverse possession or not.

In the judgment of the Original Court Judge are in the proceedings of

27.9.1993 at pg. 14 the following had been recorded.

~ IDm@coC%S (!6)JeD) ffi®m m®6S tf>o~@&l5 ~(!6) 6)z;em;?

C 6)Z;ei)Z;

~ ~~)e)rn IDm@coC%S (!6)J6» (5,}&l56X.oD e>~ e>O) B)c.o) (!000) ei)Z;a(!aS

6)z;ei)Z;?

c ooE)

~ ~oz;(!e)~e)rn tfz;co(!cs3 C%)(!ei)~oC!CO~e)rn @D®D e>~ e>O) B>C!E) 6)z;ei)Z;?

c 6)Z;ei)Z; tf)~rn 6)Z;ei)Z;

The above questions and answers are closely connected to

possession. The answers provided by the 3 rd Defendant suggest that he was

never disturbed at all by G. Dabalias Nona regarding possession. As such 3rd

14

Defendant's possession was not adverse towards G. Dabalias Nona or her

successors. The learned district Judge cannot be faulted for his views on this

aspect of the case. Factual positions could be interpreted differently by

different persons. Entering the land with permission or without permission

and non resistance to possession are three different aspects. Can it

interchange? It depends on all facts and circumstances. The most reasonable,

direct and plausible reasons could be fathomed by the 3rd Defendant's

answer to above and the trial Judge's reasoning on same. Trial court Judge is

in the best position to cage the witness. Watch the witnesses actions and

reactions, demeanour etc. and arrive at a conclusion.

I am convinced that the above mentioned Alwis vs. Perera and

Tillekeratne V s. Bastian are well recognized and persuasive judgments to be

adopted and followed even in todays context. Let me take another look at the

case of Tillekeratne vs. Bastian at pg. 324 ... (in the case of Tillekeratne vs.

Bastin.

In the case of Tillekeratne v. Bastian, and that is this, that where it is

shown that people have been in possession of land for a very considerable

length of time, that fact, taken in conjunction with the other circumstances

of the case, may justify a Court in presuming that the possession which

originated in one manner, as, for example, by permission, may have

changed its character, and that at some point it became adverse possession.

It does seem to me that this is a case in which that presumption ought

i~

15

justly to be drawn. Here is a family which for sixty years have been in

possession, quite possibly, as the District Judge suggests, originating by

permission. It does not seem to me just that they should be disturbed

through a stranger, for purposes of his own, buying in an outstanding

paper title. In the circumstances of the case, I think it is just that it should

be presumed that the possession at some appropriate date had become

adverse.

If one take a very close look at the above passage incorporated

in the case of Alwis vs. Perera what is important in that is that:

(a) people have been in possession of the land for a very considerable length

of time.

(b) that fact, taken in conjunction with other circumstances

(c) family which for 60 years have been in possession.

In the case in hand (a), (b) & (c) above cannot be established. It

is my view that considerable length of time need to go over and above the

prescriptive period in Section 3 of the Prescription Ordinance. On the own

admission of the 3rd Defendant, in his evidence, there also seems to be a

break in possession by 1974, as he ceased to occupy the small house. His

brother occupied from 1975.

In the case ofWalpita vs. Dharmasena 1980 (2) SLR 183 & 184

held presumption of ouster could be drawn from long and continued

16

possession of well over 40 years. The case in hand is no comparison for long

years of continuous possession. It is in fact doubtful whether the 3rd

Defendant who gave evidence on behalf of the Plaintiff on Plaintiff s

absence and who also gave instruction to lawyers to file action, ever had a

long continuous uninterrupted period of possession. What is the other fact

that one could take in conjunction with other circumstances? It is absolutely

nil in the present case. Leave aside the 60 years mentioned in the case of

Tillekeratne V s. Bastin, even the bare 10 years is doubtful, with the above

break in period. At this point I would look at the evidence on assessment

notices produced. The first notice of assessment was in 1978. The 3 rd

Defendant had given his name to the local body as the land-lord in 1977. It

is stated by the 3rd Defendant that he gave the local body his name for the

first time in 1977 after he transferred the property to G. Dabalias Nona. This

evidence would never support the prescriptive period. In fact it would not

come closer to the required prescriptive period. Further by looking at the

assessment notice identity of the property in dispute is very doubtful.

In all the above circumstances of this case I take the view that

mere possession is not sufficient and the facts of the case in hand is no

comparison, or cannot be applied/adopted with the cases mentioned above,

17

Alwis vs. Perera and Tillekeratne vs. Bastian. I am convinced with the

judgment of the learned District Judge. As such I affirm the judgment of the

District Court and dismiss this Appeal without cost.

Appeal dismissed.

(;{fl~3'~

JMa~ OF THE CODRT OF APPEAL