==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I i

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 148/2009

H.C. ANURADHAPURA- 81/2004

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED

DECIDED

HERATH BANDARAGE MAHINDA

DISSANAYAKE,

BOGAHAWEWA

RANORAWA.

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

VS.

ATTORNEY GENERAL

ATTORNEY GENERAL'S DEPARTMENT

COLOMBO 12.

RESPONDENT

ANIL GOONARATNE, J &

P.R. WALGAMA, J

TREENCE WICKRAMASINGHE for the Accused-

Appellant

CHETHIYA GOONASEKARA - DSG for the Respondent

12.11.2014

: 12.12.2014

1

P.R. WALGAMA, J.

The Accused- Appellant (herein after sometimes called and referred as

the accused) has preferred the instant appeal to this Court against

the Judgment and the conviction of the Learned High Court Judge

dated 13.10.2009, by which judgment the Accused had been

convicted for attempted murder punishable under Section 300 of

the Penal Code. By the afore said conviction the Learned High

Court Judge has imposed a jail term of 10 years of Rigorous imprisonment

and a fine of Rs. 30,000/ carrying a default sentence of 2 1f2

years. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence the

Accused had lodged this appeal to have the conviction and the

sentence set aside accordingly.

Shortly stated facts of the prosecution emerge thus;

The testimony of the victim was that on this fate full day at or

about 10 0 clock at night four people had forcibly entered the

bouquet where he was lying and covered his head with the bed

sheet and had dealt a blow on his head. At this time there had

" been a lamp burning . :and from the light of the lamp the victim,

has identified the assailant as the Accused. Further it is said that

the accused had attacked him with a knife. The victim has

further explained as to the ongoing enmity between two fraction,

which resulted in this attack.

In the cross-examination

marked as to time of the

accompanied the accused.

certain

incident

contradictory

and the

statement were

number of people

The testimony of the victim was that he has very clearly identified

the Accused and it is said it was accused who stabbed twice on

2

J

I

III

f I! J I I I

f I I

his head. In the cross examination he was confronted with the

statement made to the police and the

regards the number of intruders came on

of the assailant attacked him. But it is

testimony to Court as

that day and the time

seen . that these two

contradictions do not attack the credibility of the victim's version

and do not go to the root of the prosecution case.

In the above setting it is abundantly clear that the prosecution

has proved the intelligible motive on the part of the Accused to

inflict the injury to the victim. The said position was considered

by the Learned Trial Judge in arriving at the decision that it

was the accused who was responsible' for the alleged attack.

Besides it is to be noted that the identity of the accused by the

victim. The evidence revealed

victim, and there was no

that the accused was known to the

doubt as to the identity of the

wrongdoer. It is intensely relevant to note that the victim has

identified the accused not at a fleeting glance as the Counsel for

the Accused has adverted the attention of Court the necessity to "-have recourse to the ·:rational embedded in the Turnbull Theory.

As it was mentioned above the Learned Trial Judge has arrived at

the conclusion that it was the accused who should be held

responsible for committing of the alleged crime. Therefore this Court

is of the view that the identity was clearly established by the

prosecution, and same was the finding of the Learned Trial Judge

in which this Court is call upon to up hold the same.

It is to be noted the contradictions that were marked by the

defence do not attach any weight in deciding the case against

the Accused as there were strong cogent evidence against the

accused which brings more light to the prosecution case. In this

case the stance of the Accused was that victim was in a habit

of peeping through the windows of the neighboring-houses and

3

doing so he was

said position was

giving evidence in

has totally rejected

subject to an assault

not attacked by the

court. Therefore the

the said allegation.

by a neighbour. But the

accused when the victim was

Learned High Court Judge

According to the brief history given by the victim to the Doctor

apparently after 7 days after the alleged incident is another

important factor that was taken in to consideration by the

" Learned Trial Judge in evaluating the evidence before her. In

examining MLR it is being noted that the said report indicates

three categories of wounds which are identified as grievous

injuries. But nevertheless they do not fall in to the limb of that

the injuries sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause

death.

The Learned Judge

with the evidence

in the impugned judgment has extensively dealt

adduced by the Accused at the trial. The

Accused in evidence to Court has totally denied his involvement

in the alleged incident'(,and had stated that he does not go the

village where the victim lives. The accused had also admitted the

fact that he has enemies in the village where the victim lives. The

said position confirms the plank of the plain tiff. Further the

accused had

stated that he

made a statement to the police wherein he has

came to know that through one Ananda that some

person at Kokunewa had been attacked. In evaluating the Accused

testimony in court the Learned Trial Judge was of the view that

the Accused position lacks probative value and dialuted evidence

of the Accused cannot attacked the testimonial trustworthiness of

the victim and the other witnesses for the prosecution. When the

evidence is reviewed in its totality this court see no plausible

reason to interfere with the impugned judgment.

4

The

fact

counsel for the Accused

that the

had

MLR

specifically adverted court to the

IS left empty as the injuries

described under

limb of

the 2nd limb are not injuries sufficient in the

death. In the said back drop

urged that the charge under

ordinary course of nature to cause

the Counsel for the Accused has

Section 300 to be commuted to one of grievous hurt which is

punishable under Section 317 of the Penal Code.

Hence in the . said back drop we are unable to accede to the

above mentioned grounds, but nevertheless this Court has taken

serious note of what is stated In the MLR which only indicate

the fact that the injuries received by the victim has only

established the fact that the injuries are of such nature that the

Accused should have been convicted for having committed an

offence punishable under Section 317 for causing grievous hurt.

The Learned Trial Judge

convicted the Accused,., and

rigorous imprisonment and

default term of 2 Y2 years.

by her

imposed

a fine of

impugned judgment had

a sentence of 10 years

Rs. 30,000/ carrying a

For the foregoing reasons we are of the view

and proper case for substitution of the charge

Code for Section 300.

that this is

317 of the

a fit

Penal

The Accused is incarcerated for 5 years and 2 months. Therefore

in the above setting we vary the sentence and allowed the appeal

in part.

5

f

I

I

tI

i II It I

1

The jail term is commuted to 5 years and 6 months, and to be

effective from the date of conviction.

The fine imposed and the default term will stand accordingly.

Ani! Gooneratne,J.

I·~.~~~ JUDGE OF THELF~URT OF APPEAL ~

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

I.

6

I f

\

\