==== BLOCKS ==== 

CA/ PHC/APN/69/2017 Page 1 of 8 07/04/2022 IJ-17-22

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for revision in terms of Article 138 of the Constitution read with section 364 of the Code of criminal Procedure Act No. 15 of 1979 and Section 13(2) of the Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption Act No. 19 of 1994 Director General, Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption No: 36, Malalasekera Mawatha, Colombo 07

Petitioner

Court of Appeal Application No: CA/PHC/APN/69/2017 High Court of Colombo No: B/1871/2011

Vs.

Vitanachchi Palitha Jayawickrama Wellawaya Road Marawila

Accused – Respondent

CA/ PHC/APN/69/2017 Page 2 of 8 07/04/2022 IJ-17-22

BEFORE : Menaka Wijesundera J Neil Iddawala J COUNSEL : A. Navavi DSG for the Petitioner Mahendra Kumarasinghe with Navindu Kalansuriya for the Accused Respondent. Argued on

:

09.03.2022

Decided on

:

07.04.2022

Iddawala – J

This is a state revision filed on 24.05.2017 to revise the judgment of the

High Court of Colombo dated 16.12.2016 in Case No B1871/2011 which

acquitted the accused respondent (hereinafter respondent) on charges of

bribery.

The respondent was indicted in the High Court of Colombo on four counts

of Solicitation and Acceptance of a sum of Rs. 7,500/- from the virtual

complainant and thereby committing the offences in term of Section 19(b)

and 19(c) of the Bribery Act (as amended). The prosecution led the evidence

of 5 witnesses:

1. Hewabeddage Anula Padmini: virtual complainant (PW01)

2. WPC Chandrakantha: decoy (PW02)

3. CI Priyantha Liyanage: investigating officer, CIABOC (PW03)

CA/ PHC/APN/69/2017 Page 3 of 8 07/04/2022 IJ-17-22

4. Chandani Jayalath: office assistant, Palmyrah Development Board

(PW04)

5. Kumara Wahalathanthri: General Manager, Palmyrah Development

Board (PW06)

The facts of the case are as follows. The virtual complainant was employed

as an instructor of the Palmyrah Development Board since 2005 and was

a subordinate to the respondent. The virtual complainant levelled an

allegation against the respondent saying that he had solicited a bribe to

allow the virtual complainant to sign off in the daily attendance registry of

the workplace even on days she was absent. Although the complainant

was paid a monthly salary, the amount was calculated on a daily basis

and as such, for the calculation of the salary, reference is made to the

attendance registry. At the time, the complainant was pursuing an

external degree in an education institute, whereby she attended lectures

during office hours. This prevented her from attending to her official duties

and consequently she could not sign off on the attendance registry.

The complainant alleged that although she did not report to work on all

30 days, she was forced to obtain the salary for the entire month and the

amount corresponding to the days she was absent were ordered to be

handed over to the respondent. Based on the said complaint to the

Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption, a raid was

conducted on 26.06.2008 during which the complainant handed over Rs.

7500/- to the respondent. The respondent submitted that he took over

such monies as an installment of a loan she had previously obtained from

the respondent.

During submissions the learned Deputy Solicitor General (DSG) for the

petitioner contended that the instant application pivots on establishing the

purpose for which the said payment of Rs. 7,500/- was made. It was the

DSG’s contention that the purpose for which money was accepted/

gratification sought was made to secure preparation of salary for the

CA/ PHC/APN/69/2017 Page 4 of 8 07/04/2022 IJ-17-22

complainant. Vide Page 77 of the Brief, the virtual complainant gave

evidence as follows:

“මම යǦෙǦ නැƯ දවස්වලට තමɐ ȿදɢ ලබාගƮෙƮ. ඒ ûයǦෙǦ මම ඒ ȿදල ලබාǐǦෙǦ මෙĘ

ɚûයාව අʏȽ ෙවන ǧසා ඒ වෙĘම මෙĘ ŐɪෙƮම Ưෙබන අනƱɞ දැǩන ǧසා.”

However, it must be noted that the prosecution elicited this evidence only

upon re-examination and such a position was not maintained by the

prosecution prior to that. It was the position of the petitioner that this

amounted to a gratification in terms of Section 90 of the Bribery Act and

was paid to ensure the continuation of the employment of the virtual

complainant and thus constitutes an offence in terms of Section 19(c) of

the Bribery Act. Section 19(c) of the Bribery Act stipulates the following:

“who being a public servant solicits or accepts any gratification shall

be guilty of an offence”

In support of such contention, the learned DSG referred to evidence

elicited during the trial where the complainant states that she gave such

money to ‘protect her life’, ‘obliged to the demands of the respondent’ and

to ‘secure continued employment’ (page 73 and 77 of the appeal brief). It

was the DSG’s contention that by forcing the complainant to make

payments to secure employment, the respondent sought a ‘gratification’ as

interpreted in Section 90 of the Bribery Act. The said section is reproduced

below:

“Gratification includes any other service, favour or advantage of

any description whatsoever, including protection from any penalty or

disability incurred or apprehended or apprehended or from any

action or proceeding of a disciplinary or penal nature, whether or not

already instituted, and including the exercise or the forbearance from

the exercise of any right or any official power or duty”

The DSG contended that when the totality of the evidence led in trial is

considered, the learned Trial Judge has failed to consider the evidence

CA/ PHC/APN/69/2017 Page 5 of 8 07/04/2022 IJ-17-22

placed before the High Court and applied the relevant provisions of the

Bribery Act. It was further submitted that, while the petitioner concedes

that Count 1 and Count 2 has not been proven beyond reasonable doubt,

the failure of the learned High Court judge to consider the applicability of

Section 19(c) of the Bribery Act, which is count 02 and 04 in the

indictment, tantamount to a total misdirection on a question of law and

failure to properly analyze and evaluate the evidence led in trial.

Delivering the submissions on behalf of the respondent, the counsel

contended that the impugned order has adequately given mind to all the

bribery charges levelled against the respondent. It was the contention of

the counsel for the respondent that the prosecution has failed to establish

the ‘purpose’ for which the money was taken from the virtual complainant.

The evidence elicited by the virtual complainant in Page 77 of the Brief was

charcterised as a ‘weak attempt’ by the prosecution to establish a

purported purpose upon re-examination. While the DSG’s position is that

the money given to the respondent on the day of the arrest was part of the

money the virtual complainant had falsely claimed for her non-working

days, PW04, in her evidence stated that the complainant gave the money

saying “sir, here’s the money I took from you”

උ: ඊට පස්ෙස් එයා (virtual complainant) සɢɣ වගයú ǐǦනා ෙමǦන ෙȼ

පාɣත මහƮතයෙගǦ ගƮත සɢɣ ûයලා. එතන ʏටȚ තැන ෙමෙස් උƋǦ Ưɩවා

පාɣත මහƮතයාෙගǦ ගƮත සɢɣ ûයලා එයා ඒ සɢɣ Ưයල ęයා. (Vide Page

130 of the Brief)

උ: ඊට පස්ෙස් එතන පාɣත මහƮතයා ඒ ෙමස ළඟ ʏටෙගන ʏŹයා. ඊට පස්ෙස්

එයා සɢɣ වගයú ǐǦනා ෙමǦන පාɣත මහƮතයෙගǦ ගƮත සɢɣ ûයලා.

ගƮත සɢɣ ûයල සɢɣ ෙමෙස් උƋǦ Ưයලා එයා ęයා පහලට. (Vide Page

133 of the Brief)

This version is compatible with the version put forward by the respondent

who claimed that he took the money as repayment of a loan. Yet, PW04

has not been treated as an adverse witness and treated accordingly by the

CA/ PHC/APN/69/2017 Page 6 of 8 07/04/2022 IJ-17-22

prosecution. It is pertinent to note at this instance that the respondent’s

testimony was consistent, uncontradicted and no omission were marked

regarding his evidence.

In any event, it was the contention for the respondent that anything other

than an acquittal is not permitted as no count can be sustained on vitiated

credibility of the virtual complainant. The counsel for the respondent

submitted that this was a case where the virtual complainant has colluded

with the respondent to defraud the government. It was the counsel’s

contention that the learned High Court Judge has accurately arrived at

the conclusion that the virtual complainant was evasive and dishonest in

her evidence. To demonstrate the same, the counsel for the respondent

drew attention of this Court to the evidence given by the virtual

complainant:

Virtual complainant admits that the arrangement she had with the

respondent tantamount to defrauding the government but is evasive in

answering whether she was aware of the same. And she introduces a new

position that she was forced to oblige with the demands of the respondent

as she ‘feared for her life’.

ȝ: එතෙකාට ෙȼ ɪǎහට ෙබාෙහʤ කාලයú 2008 වəෂෙɏ ෙවනකȼ ෙබාෙහʤ කාලයú ෙȼ ɪǎහට ʆǐ ɬනා ûයල තමා ûයǦෙǦ ?

උ: ඔɩ

ȝ : එතෙකාට තාමƮ ෙȼ වංචාවට සȼබǦධ ɬනා?

උ : සමබǦධ ɬෙǦ ෙȼ ෙහ්Ʊව ǧසා. මම ගැහැƟ ළමෙයú

ȝ : සȼබǦධ ɬනාද නැǊද?

උ: සȼබǦධ ɬෙǦ නැ මම.

ȝ: එතෙකාට එෙහම නȼ තමා ෙȼ රජෙɏ ȿදලෙǦ ආපʈ අරෙගන ƯෙයǦෙǦ පළȿ වන ɪƮƯකාරයාට ෙගɩවා ûයලා තමා ûයǦෙǦ? තමෙǦ එක කරලා ƯෙයǦෙǦ?

උ: මම කෙɢ නැ . මම ෙනාදැǩවƮව තමɐ කරල ƯෙයǦෙǦ

ȝ : තමා ǐǦෙǦ නැƮනȼ ෙවǧǦ කɩද ǐǦෙǦ?

උ: මම සɢɣ ǐǦෙǦ නැ. මෙගǦ බෙලǦ තමɐ ගƮෙƮ.

CA/ PHC/APN/69/2017 Page 7 of 8 07/04/2022 IJ-17-22

ȝ : තමාට තəජනය කලාද?

උ: තəජනය කලා ûයǦෙǦ වටාȘටාෙවǦ තමා තəජනය කෙɢ. ඒ ûයǦෙǦ මම ගැහැƟ ළමෙයú ǧසා මට ඒ ȿදල ෙදǦන ʆǊධ ෙවනවා. ෙමාකද පාෙə බැහැල යǦන ඕන ǧසා. ඒ ûයǦෙǦ මට ෙමානවා හɜ කරදරයú ɬෙනාƮ එකට ȘʘƱɞ සපයා ගǦන.

(Vide Page 57 – 59 of the Brief)

Vide Page 73 of the Brief, the virtual complainant claims that she could

not lodge complaints against the respondent as “එෙහම කතා කරǦන ęය නȼ

සමහරɪට මෙĘ ŐɪතයƮ අʏȽ ෙවǦනƮ ȚʚවǦ. ɚûයාවƮ අʏȽ ෙවǦනƮ ȚʚවǦ”.

However, she also claims that she personally handed over a letter to the

Speaker of the Parliament citing her grievances and that she received a

verbal response. She was asked to produce the said letter for which she

presented a purported ‘draft’ of the letter. As such the virtual complainant

refers to several reasons as to why she complied with the demands of the

respondent, but the prosecution has failed to establish the purpose for

which such money was handed over with any certainty.

The evidence adduced from the virtual complainant revealed that she was

demoted from her position of an instructor to that of a labourer. (Vide

Pages 52 – 54). As a result of such a demotion, the respondent had

deducted her salary. On two occasions, the virtual complainant admits

that she retaliated to such reduction by lodging complaints with the

Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption (Vide Page

54 and Page 60). In this regard, the learned High Court Judge has made

the following observation at Page 224 of the Brief:

“ෙමම නƍෙɩ පැ.ස. 01 ෙĘ සාúɿය අǩව අǧýƮ පැȽƝɢෙɢ සාúɿ සැලûɢලට ගැǨෙȼǏ

පැ.ස. 01 උපෙǊɴක තනƱෙර ʆට කȼකɞ තනƱරට ෙස්වා තƮවය පහත වැŹම ǧසා පැ.ස. 01

ɪƮƯකɞ සමග Ǌෙɩශ සහගත ʆŹ බව පැ.ස. 01 අǝකරණෙɏ සාúɿ ǐǦ ɪලාසය අǩව ෙපǨ

යɐ.”

In his concluding remarks, the learned High Court Judge observes that

cheating charges ought to have been preferred against both the virtual

complainant and the respondent. As such the impugned order dated

CA/ PHC/APN/69/2017 Page 8 of 8 07/04/2022 IJ-17-22

16.12.2016 acquits the respondent on charges under the Bribery Act on

the basis that the prosecution failed to establish the charges beyond

reasonable doubt. We are in agreement of this determination.

It is clear from the above examination that the prosecution has failed to

prove, beyond reasonable doubt, that the respondent has committed

bribery offences. This is evinced by the failure to satisfactorily establish

the purpose for which the money was solicited/ accepted by the

respondent on the date of the raid. Furthermore, credibility of PW01, the

virtual complainant has been shaken and it is evident that she has lodged

the complaint against the respondent due to her demotion from an

instructor to a labourer in the Palmyrah Development Board.

Taking into consideration all of the above, it is the considered view of this

Court that the impugned order dated 16.12.2016 does not warrant

interference under the revisionary jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal.

Application dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Menaka Wijesundera J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL