==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

CA/Writ/291/2011

1

In the matter of an application for

mandates in the nature of Writs Of

Certiorari, Mandamus and Qua

Warranto under Article 140 of the

Constitution of Sri Lanka.

1. R.D. Lalith Ranasinghe,

150, Neboda Road,

Matugama.

2. L.L. Mery Munasinghe,

Welipenna, Lewwanduwa.

3. K.D. Mithrananda,

Handapamulla, Meegama,

Indigastuduwa.

4. A.N. Uchitha Sankalpa,

PayagalaRoad,

Yatadolawatta,

Matugama.

5. W.A. Jayaranjan,

348, Welimanana, Panthiya,

Matugama.

PETIONERS

Vs.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued on

Order on

Preliminary objection

S.Sriskandara j ah. I

1. H.R.P. Peiris,

Returning Officer/ Senior

Assistant Commissioner of

Elections,

Kalutara Administrative

District,

Department of Elections,

Kalutara.

And Twenty four others

RESPONDENTS

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

J.C.Waliamuna,

for the Petitioner.

Janaka De Silva

for the Respondents.

07.09.2012

30.01.2013

The Petitioner contested the local authorities election of 2011 conducted on

17/03/2011 for the Matugama Pradeshiya Sabha from the United Peoples Freedom

Alliance, a registered political party. The 1st and 2nd Petitioners have been declared

elected as Members of the Matugama Pradeshiya Sabha at the said election, but the

2

Petitioners filed this application in the public interests of the voters in the Matugama

Pradeshiya Sabha area, in ensuring fairness and transparency in the counting process of

the preference and the preparation of the final results. The Petitioners have sought a

Writ of Certiorari quashing the election of the 4th to the 12th Respondents as Members of

the Matugama Pradeshiya Sabha, as reflected in P2. The Petitioners have also sought a

Writ of Certiorari quashing the final results of the preference obtained by the candidates

of the UPF A in respect of the Matugama Pradeshiya Sabha and quashing the part of the

list containing the elected candidates that is applicable to the UPF A among other reliefs

sought in the Petition.

The Respondents, by way of preliminary objection, raise the following issues:-

(a) The Petitioner is in effect seeking a partial quashing of the

election results of the Matugama Pradeshiya Sabha, which is not

possible according to law;

(b) In any event, there is a more effective and adequate remedy

provided in terms of Section 82(q) read with Section 82(s) of the

Local Authorities Elections Ordinance (as amended);

(c) The counting of preference and declaration of the results has

been duly completed and as such a Writ of Mandamus does not

lie;

(d) The declaration of preferential votes constitute a ministerial act

and, as such, no writ of certiorari lies.

The Respondents explained that the counting of votes is done as stipulated in the

Local Authorities Elections Ordinance and, accordingly, after the ballot boxes are

3

brought to the counting centres, the counting of votes is carried out in three stages, viz.,

the box count to verify the ballot papers in the ballot boxes ; then the party count to

ascertain the number of those obtained by each party, and then the count of the

preference votes; that the preference votes are then categorized into where no

preference has been indicated, votes with one preference, votes with 2 preference, and

votes containing more than 3 preferences, and votes that cannot be decided upon.

Thereafter, in the presence of the counting agents of all the relevant parties, the results

are entered by one counting officer and checked by another counting officer, and the

results are announced and displayed; first, within the respective counting hall by the

Chief Counting Officer of each counting hall. If there are no objections or requests for

recount, the written statements containing the results are then sent to the results

declaration centre for verification and thereafter the final results are announced.

In the above process, the Petitioners were given ample opportunity to seek a

recount at the time of counting the preferential votes which the Petitioners have failed

to exercise at the relevant time.

A preliminary objection was raised by the Respondents that the announcement

of the results is only a ministerial act and not a decision or determination that attracts

jurisdiction of this Court. In support of this contention, the learned counsel cited the

case of Gamini Atukorale Vs. Dayananda Dissanayake, Commissioner of Elections reported in

1988 3 SLR page 206 at 219, where it was held that the decision of the results by the

Returning Officer in terms of Section 65 of the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance is

not a decision which attracts the jurisdiction exercisable by way of a Writ of Certiorari.

The said declaration of elections is only an announcement of the results of the count and

as there is no discretion involved, the declaration of election results cannot be quashed

by a Writ of Certiorari as the said action is a ministerial act and, therefore, I uphold the

preliminary objection of the Respondent that a Writ of Certiorari will not lie to quash

the said decision.

4

l ! I i ' )

l

The Petitioners also have not exercised the alternate remedy provided in terms of

Section 82(b) read with Section 82(s) of the Local Authorities Election Ordinance, as

amended, as the said remedy is provided for this purpose and it has adequate remedy

in relation to the complaint of any irregularity in an election. As the complaints are in

relation to disputes of facts and it needs leading of evidence, the procedure by way of a

Writ of Certiorari is not a suitable remedy to give relief to the Petitioners. Further, the

Petitioners in these proceedings are only seeking to quash the preferential votes that

were cast to the UPF A candidate, which is a partial quashing of the said election. It was

held in Anthony and Others Vs. Chandradasa 1996 2 SLR page 311, that in an election to

proceed as void and to have another few members declared duly elected, is not

possible. In these circumstances the petition to quash only the election of the UPF A

candidate cannot be granted. In these circumstances this Court dismisses this

application without cost.

President of the Court of Appeal

5