==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 512/2009

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Deepali Wijesundera J.

1. Additional District Registrars' Union

Of the Department of Registrar General

Pathadumbara,

Divisional Secretariat's Office

Pitiyagedera.

And 02 others

PETITIONERS

Vs.

1. M. A. Dharmadasa

Director General of Establishments

(Acting)

And 12 others

RESPONDENTS

Prinath Fernando for Petitioners

A. Samaranayake S.S.c., for Respondents

28.05.2013

02.09.2013

1

2

GOONERATNE J.

Petitioners in this application have sought a Writ of Certiorari and

Mandamus, and what has to be decided is only the issuance of Mandamus since

on the date of argument learned counsel for Petitioners informed this court that

relief prayed for in subparagraph (b) of the prayer to the Amended Petition would

not be pursued, and recorded accordingly. As such this case is confined to the

relief sought in subparagraph (c ) of the prayer to the petition. There appears to

be a long standing grievance as described by the Respondents, pertaining to

salary scale. Mandamus is sought to place the Petitioners in the scale described as

MN-S-2006 and be placed at step 23 of the salary scale, applied to the Public

Management Assistant's Service.

Petitioners were in Grade III Class III of the Registrars' Service which

had been created by the Cabinet decision of Pl1. However the learned Senior

State Counsel on behalf of the Respondents argue that the Petitioners in effect

had been granted the relief as prayed for and to be placed in the scale MN-S-

2006. But learned State Counsel state that the fact that the Petitioners have to sit

for a qualifying examination or they are unable to do so since they have retired

\ !I

i ! II! I

I

\i

f

tIl)\

3

prior to 2R1 coming into force, are not grounds that could be urged by the

Petitioners in this application.

The Amended Petition of the Petitioners and the submissions made

on their behalf give very many details of the Petitioners service record. It is not

possible to refer to each and every step or item referred to by learned counsel for

Petitioner but this court would only refer to the gist of the Petitioners service

record. Petitioners aver that due to representations and certain approvals the

salaries and carders committee approved the creation of 90 posts of Addit~onal

District Registrars Grade III and approved the salary scale entitled to the General

Clerical Service Class I. Application for the posts were called by P12. 90 persons

were appointed as referred to in paragraph 16 -19 of the Amended Petition.

There is reference to Public Administration Assistant's Service (P17/p18) and the

gradual shift to the above service as regards salaries and the respective grades as

described in the petition. Good part of the petition relate to making

representation to various authorities like the Human Rights Commission, the

Salaries and Carders Commission etc. to demonstrate the grievance of the

petitioners and their entitlement to be placed in the salary scale referred to in

subparagraph (c ) of the prayer to the petition.

f III

f i i I! t t I IIt !,

.' I

\

\

f

~

I!

\

f

4

This court has noted the several aspects that have been urged by the

Petitioners in their Amended Petition and the Written Submissions tendered to

this court. No doubt the new salary structures introduced from time to time

resulted in salary anomalies. P30a, P30b and several other documents are

annexed to demonstrate salary anomalies.

Learned Senior State Counsel argues that a Writ of Mandamus does

not lie in the circumstances of this case. Further the prayer for a Writ of

Mandamus is misconceived and cannot be granted. My attention is drawn to the

case of Perera Vs. NHDA 2001 (3) SLR 50. "The foundation of Mandamus is the

existence of a right. Mandamus is not intended to create a right but to restore a

party who had been denied his right to the enjoyment of the said rights".

Petitioners in this case did not have a statutory right to be placed in

the salary scale referred to in sub paragraph (c ) of the prayer to the Amended

Petition. Our attention is drawn to another decided case which is somewhat

similar to the way in which the Petitioners in this case attempt to demand a right

or seek a writ of Mandamus in the manner pleaded. CA. Application 1068/05

decided on 4.5.2007 "The object of Mandamus being simply to compel

performance of a legal duty on the part of some person or body which is

entrusted by law with that duty, the court in a proceedings for Mandamus, will

! I! II!

f III !! i I• i , t , I,

t Ir I I f f.

~ l

\!

5

never sit as a Court of Appeal so as to examine facts or to substitute its own

wisdom for the discretion vested by law in the person or against whom the Writ is

sought" .

The Respondents urge two other important matters of law that

would disentitle the Petitioner for the remedy of Mandamus. The prayer to the

Amended Petition does not specifically name the parties against whom a

Mandamus is sought, must be specifically named. Some of the Respondents no

longer hold office. Prayer merely refer to all the Respondents. Some cannot obey

such an order from court and others have left their employment. Prayer Ie' lacks

clarity.

The other important point is that the Public Service Commission

which is the appointing authority and responsible for the formulation of the new

scheme of recruitment are not made parties. As such the necessary parties are

not before court. Therefore this court cannot grant the remedy of Mandamus

This court would not ordinarily interfere regarding salaries of Public

Servants since it is a matter best left to be decided by the authorities dealing with

the subject of salaries of Government Servants. Court could be invited to interfere

where an authority exceed constitutional or statutory rights. Petitioners have not

been able to bring their case to that point to justify any kind of interference or

fI! I

6

violations contrary to law. Therefore we are not inclined to grant the remedy of

Mandamus as in subparagraph Ie' of the prayer to the. petition. Therefore we

refuse to grant relief and dismiss this application without costs.

Application dismissed.

~~~" JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Deepali Wijesundera J.

I agree.

JUDGE !oJ~PPEAl