==== BLOCKS ==== 

169/99{F}

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

W.A.Jinadasa, 16 Rest House Road,

Wellawaya. (Deceased)

Defendant-Appellant

Wawulanbokka Acharige Nimal of

Kotaveheragalayaya, Warunagama

Wellawaya.

Substituted Defendant-Appellant

C.A.Case NO:-169/99(F)

D.C.Monaragala Case NO:-1452/L

Vs

Before:- H.N.J.Perera, J.

Multi Purpose Co-operative Society

Limited, Wellawaya.

Plaintiff-Respondent

Counsel:-Sunil Abeyratne with P.N.Abeyratne for the substituted

Defendant-Appellant

Vijaya Niranjan Perera for the Plaintiff-Respondent

Argued On:-20.09.2013

Written Submissions:-28-08-2013/28.10.2013

! I i I ! I i I ! I I I

I I

I i I I I I I ! I I I I I I I I I I ! ! i j t t

! ~ I

J I

Decided On:-10.06.2014

H.N.J.Perera, J.

The Plaintiff-Respondent instituted this action against the original

Defendant-Appellant to obtain a judgment that the Plaintiff-

Respondent was the owner of the land and premises described in the

schedule to the plaint and for ejectment of the Defendant-Appellant

from the said premises.

The Defendant-Appellant filed his answer and took up the position

that he was the lawful tenant of the premises described in the 1st

schedule in his answer as assessment No. 16 and in extent of 12X12

feet and the land described in the 2nd schedule in the answer in

extent of 10X20 feet was a part of the said land described in the 1st

schedule in the answer.

At the trial the Plaintiff-Respondent admitted that the Defendant-

Appellant was the tenant of the premises described in the first

schedule to the answer and limited his reliefs to the land described

in the second schedule to the answer.

After trial, the learned District Judge delivered judgment on

03.02.1999 in favour of the Plaintiff-Respondent. Aggrieved by the

said judgment of the learned District Judge of Wellawaya the

Defendant-Appellant has preferred this appeal to this Court.

It was the contention of the Counsel for the Defendant-Appellant

that the learned District Judge in his judgment has held that the

disputed portion of the land was the land in extent of 8 X 22, shed

mentioned as lA' in Plan marked X. However the learned District

Judge has answered the issue No 4 affirmatively which clearly shows

that the trial Judge has erred in facts and in law. Therefore it was

contended that there is a serious doubt on identification of the

disputed portion of land and that the burden was on the Plaintiff-

Respondent to prove the identity of the subject matter correctly.

The Defendant-Appellant contends that the disputed portion of the

land described in the schedule to the original plaint and the land

depicted in the Court Commissioner's plan and report No 559

marked X is substantially different.

It was contended on behalf of the Plaintiff-Respondent that a proper

examination of the schedule to the plaint reveals that the schedule

refers to the entire corpus belonging to the Plaintiff-Respondent with

reference to a final partition plan .This was prior to the commission

being issued by court to identify the disputed portion with reference

to a survey plan. A commission had been issued on the application of

the Plaintiff-Respondent and was executed by the Commissioner

Wilmot Silva and his plan and report filed of record where the

disputed portion was depicted as 'A' in the said plan. Thereafter an

application has been made by the Plaintiff-Respondent to amend the

plaint to describe the disputed portion with reference to the said

commissioner's plan marked X but this application had been refused

by court.

It is highly unfortunate that the court had refused the said

application made by the Plaintiff-Respondent to amend the plaint to

describe the said disputed portion with reference to the

commissioner's plan. In my opinion the learned District Judge should

have allowed the said application of the Plaintiff-Respondent to

amend the plaint. I cannot see any prejudice being caused to the

Defendant-Appellant from allowing the said application of the

Plaintiff-Respondent to amend the plaint to describe the disputed

portion more fully with reference to the said plan.

However at the trial the Plaintiff-respondent had led the

Commissioners evidence and marked the plan No 559 dated

13.02.1994 as X and the report Xl. The learned District judge has

considered the evidence given by the Surveyor ,the plan marked X

and the report Xl and had correctly identified the disputed portion

as the lot depicted as 'A' in the said plan marked X.

It is very clearly seen that although the Plaintiff-Respondent has filed

this action to eject the Defendant-Appellant from the entire land he

has later confined his case to the disputed portion of the land

depicted as 'A' in the plan X.

In this case the Defendant-Appellant has admitted that the entire

land described in the schedule to the plaint belongs to the Plaintiff-

Respondent. He has admitted that he was in possession of a room in

the building as a tenant of the Plaintiff-Respondent.

The Plaintiff-Respondent has pleaded title to the said land and has

proved that he is the owner. The Defendant-Appellant too has

admitted the Plaintiff's title to the land.

Further it has been clearly established that the Defendant-Appellant

occupied the portion of land adjoining the room with leave and

license of the Plaintiff-Respondent. The Defendant-Appellant had on

several occasions agreed to remove his tools and implements from

the portion covered by the temporary shed.

In paragraph 5 of the answer the Defendant-Appellant had stated

that he believed that the disputed portion of land to be a part of the

portion which he has rented out from the Plaintiff-Respondent but

later has come to know that the Plaintiff-Respondent is not the

owner of the said portion of land.

In Ruberu Another Vs Wijesooriya (1998) 1 Sri L.R. 58, it was held

that:-

"Whether it is a licensee or lessee, the question of title is foreign to a

suit in ejectment against either. The licensee obtaining possession is

deemed to obtain it upon the terms that he will not dispute the title

of the plaintiff without whose permission he would not have got it.

The effect of Section 16 of the Evidence Ordinance is that if a

licensee desires to challenge the title under which he is in occupation

he must first quit the land. The fact that the licensee obtained

possession from Plaintiff is perforce an admission of the fact that the

title resides in the plaintiff."

In Visvalingham Vs Gajaweera 56 N.L.R. 111,it was held that:-

"Even assuming that the Defendant had become owner of the entire

premises, it was not open to him to refuse to surrender possession

to his landlord. He must first give up possession and then it would be

open to him to litigate about the ownership."

The learned trial Judge has arrived at certain factual matters or has

decided on primary facts i.e Plaintiff-Respondent was the owner,

that the Defendant-Appellant entered the land in question with the

permission of the Plaintiff-Respondent, the disputed portion is

depicted is depicted as 'A' in plan X. Being a licensee the Defendant-

Appellant is not entitled to dispute the title of the Plaintiff-

Respondent. He must give up possession and then it would be open

to him to litigate about the ownership. I have considered the entire

judgment and see no reason to interfere and the trial Judge has

given cogent reasons. I do not wish to interfere with the primary

facts.

In Alwis Vs Piyasena Fernando (1993) 1 Sri.L.R. 119 it was held that:-

The Court of Appeal should not have disturbed the findings of

primary facts made by the District Judge, based on credibility of

witnesses.

In M.P.Munasinghe Vs C.P.Vidanage 69 N.L.R. 97, it was held that:-

The jurisdiction of an appellate court to review the record of the

evidence in order to determine whether the conclusion reached by

the trial Judge upon that evidence should stand has to be exercised

with caution.

"If there is no evidence to support a particular conclusion (and this is

really a question of law) the appellate court will not hesitate so to

decide. But if the evidence as a whole can reasonably be regarded as

justifying the conclusion arrived at the trial, and especially if that

conclusion has been arrived at on conflicting testimony by a tribunal

which saw and heard witnesses, the appellate court will bear in mind

that it has not enjoyed this opportunity and that the view of the trial

Judge as to where credibility lies is entitled to great weight ............... "

-Per Viscount Simon in Watt or Thomas Vs Thomas (1947 A.C. 484 at

pp.485-6)

For the above reasons I see no reason to disturb the judgment of the

learned District Judge. Accordingly the appeal of the Defendant-

Appellant is dismissed with costs.

Appeal dismissed.