==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 153/2013 (Writ)

152/2013

151/2013

150/2013

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

E. M. Haritha Prabath Ekanayake

No. 21/B, Heraliyawala,

Kurunegala.

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. Sabaragamuwa University of Sri Lanka

P.O.Box 02,

Belihuloya.

2. Prof. Mahinda S. Rupasinghe

Vice Chancellor,

Chairman of the Governing Council

Sabaragamuwa University of Sri Lanka

P.O. Box 02, Belihuloya.

And 17 others

RESPONDENTS

Saliya Peiris with A. Devendra for the Petitioner

N. Unamboowe D.s.G for the 1st, 2nd 4th -lih, 14th,

16th, - 19th Respondents with S.c. Nayomi Kahawita

1

2

ARGUED ON: 23.10.2013

DECIDED ON: 19.02.2014

GOONERATNE J.

The Petitioners in the above applications are four 3rd year students of

the 1st Respondent University in the faculties described in each of the above I

Petitions filed of record. They were office bearers of the Student Union of the 1st

Respondent University, and being committee members organized a special

general meeting of students, and held on 12.3.2013. All Petitioners were issued

letters of suspension by the authorities concerned. A Writ of Certiorari is sought

to quash the decision of the 2

nd Respondent reflected in letter PiS which

temporarily suspended their studentship for a period of 8 months. A Wr It of

Mandamus is sought directing the 2nd and or all the Respondents to allow the

Petitioners to sit for the final examination of the 3rd academic year which

commenced on July 2013. This application was supported for formal notice on

17.6.2013 and court granted notice and a limited interim order, was also issued.

1 1 I 1 j

j

j

I i i

1

I

1 j ,

~ I

3

The interim order was in fact issued to facilitate the Petitioners only to sit for the

examination but releasing of results be suspended till the case is finally decided.

Periodically the interim order was extended. At the very outset, this

court wish to state that it is in fact a futile exercise at this stage to consider the

question of Writ of Mandamus, since by July 2013 examination dates have lapsed.

Such a remedy cannot be granted in the circumstances and in the context of this

case. The complaint of the Petitioners proceed on the basis of letter P2 which the

Petitioner allege to have introduced 9 rules by the authorities concerned which

was not notified to the Petitioners and students. Perusal of P2 dated 27.3.2013

would indicate that a minute introduced dated 05.03.2013 to same request for

views. (Respondents have placed more material on letter P2 and produced as 2R3

identical letter with more minutes on same) Letter P3 is a letter where the

student Union of the 1st Respondent University question P2 to be unreasonable.

It is pleaded that the above Students' Union called for a special

general meeting on 12.3.2013 and the matters pleaded in paras 10 & 11 of the

respective Petitions were discussed and the manner of holding the meeting is also

stated. Therefore it is pleaded that the 2nd Respondent published notices P5 & P6

on 14.3.2013 in the university premises. P5 indicates that activities of the

Students' Union, temporary suspended as from 14.3.2013, and a prohibition to

I l

)

1 I 1 I

•

4

enter offices described therein. Para 12 & 13 provides more details of such

temporary suspension. The other major complaint of the petitioner is P7 where

the President and Secretary of the Students' Union had been suspended.

Petitioner inter alia plead PS & P7 does not give reasons (P8) for suspension.

Letter suspending the several petitioners are produced marked Pl0A, Pl0B Pl0C,

PlOD & Pll

Petitioners have addressed P12, being aggrieved by the decision

stated above by the authorities concerned. A complaint P13 was also made to the

Human Rights Commission as pleaded in para 21 of the petition. It is highlighted

in the petition as from paras 22 -28 the disciplinary inquiry against the petitioners

where petitioners seek to demonstrate irregularities/illegalities of the inquiry held

and the inquiry procedure, and where more than one month after the suspension

an inquiry conducted by a committee of inquiry (P14). Inquiry committee

consisted of Sth , t h ,18th & 19th Respondents. The 18th Respondent was the

Chairman of the Committee. The following irregularities of the disciplinary

committee are strongly urged

(1) Disciplinary Committee consists of members of the governing council which

recommended suspension of Petitioners.

(2) Representation by an Attorney at Law denied

1 1 I

~ I

1

•

5

(3) Since the Students' Union was suspended the students' union's

representations too not available.

(4) Petitioners not given an opportunity to cross-examine the complainant and

witnesses, whose evidence the authorities relied on.

(5) Petitioners and other suspended students not given an opportunity to call

witness and produce evidence on their behalf other than recording

statements of Petitioners and 3 others.

(6) Statements of some others inclusive of one Sandaruwan recorded on a

later date.

(7) Petitioners not issued the proceeding or the recommendation of the

committee of inquiry.

In the petition it is also pleaded that Petitioners appealed to the 2nd

Respondent on 06.05.2013, urging that decision in PiS be reconsidered. Another

appeal was also preferred by P16. The grounds for the issue of a Writ of Certiorari

based on PiS are contained in para 31. A variety of reasons contained in para 31

highlight the alleged grounds for the issue of Writ of Certiorari. Very many of the

suggested grounds appear to proceed mainly on the basis of a breach of natural

justice, procedural impropriety, disproportionate punishments (proportionality).

The position of the Respondents are gathered from the objections

filed of record and the corresponding affidavit. This court note inter alia the

following material from same. The by-laws, rules and regulations are produced

6 I

• marked 2Rl, 2R1A & 2R1B. The decision taken on 27.02.2013 as evidence in P2 is

not a by-law and it is only a document calling for observations. Document 2R3 &

2R3A, identical to document P2 are produced. (It is apparent that the above

documents are not rules or by-laws, and no finality as alleged by the Petitioners in

I

P2). Letter P3 issued by the Petitioners is under a misconception and

misunderstanding (this court is inclined to accept the Respondent's version based j I

on 2R3 & 2R 3A).

I Clause 7 of Rule 2R1B, a meeting beyond the stipulated time (8 .00

p.m) should be approved by the Vice Chancellor. 2R3 however attempts to relax

the time period for male students up to 10.00 p.m. Earlier Students' Union by

2R4A, 2R4B & 2R4C made applications for approval. No approval proceeded on P2

or 2R3 and as such no notice required to be given. Respondents strongly urge

that meeting held on 12.3.2013 is an unauthorized meeting of the Students'

Union. Rule 2:6 of 2 R 5 required that permission of Vice Chancellor need tv be

obtained. Such unauthorized meetings held earlier as evidenced by 2R 6A, 2R 6B

& 2R 6C caused destruction and damage to general public and university

property. P4 unsigned, with no agenda. Minutes of the meeting indicate that the

purpose was to instigate students.

I i I 1 i I

•

7

Respondents emphasis on certain complaints received marked 2R7 A

to 2R7C and the Vice Chancellor having considered same decided to suspend the

Petitioners and declared the university premises out of bound. Based on above

2nd Respondent issued letters P10A to PlOD.

The said letters temporarily suspend the student leaders named

therein (P10A - PlOD)

The said letters which temporarily suspend the student leaders

named therein (P10A -PlOD) had to be issued by the 2nd Respondent, Vice

Chancellor after considering the written complaints of Professor c.P. Udawatte -

Student's Counselor, W.R.C. Wattegedera - Marshall, P. Premasiri O.I.C Security

Services produced and marked as 2R7 A, 2R7B, 2R7C.

Appeal marked P12 by the Petitioners were received and thereafter

with the approval of the University council (2R9) a committee of inquiry was

appointed, comprising of Mr. D.Jayasinghe Proctor -Head of Department of

Marketing Faculty of Management Studies Dr. A.D. Ampitiyawatta Dean, Faculty

of Agriculture M.R.M.W. Rathnayake Dean, Faculty of Management Studies.

Respondents plead the following as regard the steps and conduct of the

Committee of Inquiry.

I I t I I

~ I l i i I 1 I I

i I

(a) 20 Witnesses called 2R10A to 2R10 I

(b) Evidence/Statement of witnesses recorded 2R11A to 2R11 T

(c) Committee submitted a report 2R12

8

(d) According to 2R11 about 20 students and employees in their statements

and evidence admitted that a meeting was held without prior approval.

(e) 19th Respondent not a member of the Committee of Inquiry. He was the

Secretary of the Committee of Inquiry. Members of the committee of

inquiry did not participate in the council decision to suspend students. 2R

14A to 2R 14B. Nor did the committee recommend a punishment

(f) No application made by the Petitioners before the Committee of Inquiry to

call witnesses. No application made by petitioner to cross-examine

witnesses. No allegation of this sort made before the submission of report

2R12.

(g) Copy of the proceedings of the inquiry and recommendations were

requested only after submissions of report of the above committee.

(h) Only appeal submitted was by letter of 10.5.2013 (P16). The University

Council meeting held on 31.5.2013 decided not to accede to the appeal -

vide 2R15.

I have considered all the material placed before this court inclusive of

the averments contained in the counter affidavit of the Petitioner. At the outset

this court observes that complaints were received by the Vice Chancellor (2nd

Respondent) by documents 2R7 A-2R7C. Contents of 2R7 A-2R7C gives a sufficient

description of what took place on 12.3.2013. Further it disclose certain material

1 1 I I

1 I j

1 i , j

9

which gave rise to a situation where the Vice Chancellor decided to, based on the

contents of the above letters, to suspend the Petitioners and to declare the

university premises out of bounds. I cannot see any legal impediment for the 2

nd

Respondent to take such steps and actions which are provided in terms of

University Grants Commission Circular 946 marked 2R13. It is a guide line on

students discipline which includes the disciplinary procedure and punishment etc.

(vide clause 4 of 2R13).The Respondents need to have such powers to maintain

discipline in a university. 2nd Respondent took the initial steps as provided by

regulations and he is perfectly within his powers to do so. Consequently P6, P7,

and the like documents had been issued to all the Petitioners which temporarily

suspend them as above. I would at this point of my Judgment refer to a decided

case which relates to suspension of students pending inquiry and consequential

steps. In De Saram Vs. Panditharatne & others 1984 2 SLR 107

Held -

The duty of maintaining discipline in the University is conferred on the Vice Chancellor by the

Universities Act. Where a person is responsible for the maintenance of discipline in a particular

institution, suspension pending inquiry would be an inherent or implied right flowing from such

responsibility. The question whether the suspension pending inquiry is tainted with malice or

unfairness is a different matter. However taking all the circumstances into consideration in the

instant case. It cannot be said that the 1st respondent has acted unfairly or maliciously.

I I

10

Section 131(1) of the Universities Act which makes provision for "any person" to be prohibited

from entering the precincts of the University after giving such person an opportunity of being

heard, applies not to students but to outsiders whose presence in the campus would be

detrimental to the moral life of the student community. Hence, a student need not be given a

hearing before a prohibition is imposed on him from entering the campus. The suspension

imposed in the instant case is one pending inquiry and is not by way of punishment. This kind of

suspension does not attract the principle of natural justice, audi alteram partem, whereas penal

suspension would definitely do so, It cannot therefore be said that the suspension was

arbitrarily imposed. It is necessary however that the 1st respondent did not act unfairly.

Considering the circumstances of the case it is not possible to say that suspension was unfair.

The mere appointment by the disciplinary authority of a committee to inquire and investigate

allegations is not improper. The authority must however, finally apply his own mind to the facts

as found by the committee of inquiry and arrive at his own decision. The automatic acceptance

of the recommendations of the committee without the exercise by the disciplinary authority of

his own discretion would amount to a delegation of his powers. In the instant case, there has

been no such delegation and the 1st respondent had the authority to appoint the 3rd

respondent to inquire and investigate.

Then follows the next stage where the authorities concerned need to

inquire into the allegations. This seems to be the point from which the

Petitioner's complain of bias, procedural impropriety at the Disciplinary Inquiry,

breach of natural justice. It is within the powers of the 2nd Respondent to appoint

a Committee of Inquiry. In this instance 2nd Respondent has done so.

11

On receipt of letter P12 the 2nd Respondent with the approval of the

Council, a Committee of Inquiry was appointed (2R9). It consists of at Mr.

D.Jayasinghe Head, Department of Marketing & Proctor Dr. A.D. Ampitiyawatte

Dean, Faculty of Agriculture Mr. R.M.W. Rahtnayake Dean, Faculty of

Management Studies.

I would at this point also refer to affidavits of 2R14A & 2R14B. It is

stated that Wasantha Ratnayake & Ampitiyawatte participated at the council

meeting of 02.05.2013 and when the report was taken up for discussion as

regards punishment they walked out since they were members of the Committee

of Inquiry. I see no basis to reject such position. That indicates that the committee

was aware of their responsibilities.

I will now consider the available notes or material placed before

court to ascertain details of the inquiry procedure.

It is the position of the Petitioners that they requested that an

Attorney at Law, namely Mr. Sunil Jayasena be allowed to participate at the

inquiry, who was present at the inquiry. That was disallowed by the Committee of

Inquiry. I cannot find any proof to substantiate such a position. If there was any

difficulty in obtaining the proceedings, at least an affidavit of the named Attorney

at Law should have been produced. Position in this regard of the Respondents is

! ! 1 ! 1 I I

12

that the relevant circular does not permit outsiders to represent the students.

Rule 12 R3 also does not make specific reference for such representation. I am

unable to make specific observations and rule on same as the rules are silent on

this aspect. However the more serious allegations are (a) the denial of the right to

cross-examine the witnesses and the complainants. Further it is also alleged that

(b) the Petitioners were not given an opportunity to call witnesses or produce

evidence on their behalf.

If (a) and (b) above had been, in fact denied to the Petitioners, it is a

serious concern. If found to be established, no doubt there is a breach of rules of

natural justice and the Petitioner would be definitely entitled to the relief prayed

for in these application before court. It is unfortunate that proceedings are not

made available by either party, other than statement recorded at the inquiry.

Such an important application ('a' & 'b' above) should have been recorded or

some letter or document addressed in that connection to the Committ€"~ of

Inquiry should have been made available to court.

In answer to such an allegation Respondents in their objections as

well as in their submissions take up the position that there was no such

application made as regards (a) & (b) above to the Inquiring Committee, and that

III

I !

\ II

13

such an allegation is an afterthought. In the case of University of Ceylon Vs.

Fernando 61 NLR 506. f

There was no infringement of any principle of natural justice if the Plaintiff was

not given an opportunity of cross-examining a material witness if no request was made

by him to tender such witness for cross-examination.

Therefore I am not in a position to consider (a) & (b) above

favourably towards the Petitioner. It appears to this court according to the

material furnished that at no stage was such an application made to the

Committee of Inquiry. Nor does letter P16 which was addressed to the 2

nd

Respondent contain any such denial of natural justice as per (a) & (b) above.

The submissions of Petitioner and as averred in the pleadings of the

several Petitioners is that some dissatisfaction being expressed on letter P2, and

by P3, Petitioners have sought clarification from the 2nd Respondent, Vice

Chancellor. The position on these so called rules, (P2) as suggested by Petitioners

are contained in para 9 of the objections. In the next para 10, it is pleaded that

the Students' Union called for a Special general Meeting on 12.3.2013 (vide

minute P4). The Committee of Inquiry has recorded the statements of 20

witnesses. This includes the statements of Petitioner in CA 153/2013 and several

students who participated at the special general meeting of 12.3.2013.

1 }

I I j !

14

Statements of students are marked 2RllD, and the rest of students inclusive of

above, as 2Rlla to 2Rll I. It cannot be denied that the above meeting was held

without prior approval. Perusal of the statements of many students, there is no

denial of above and all of them state that prior approval has not been obtained. It

is stated in the above statements either directly and or indirectly from which one

could arrive at a conclusion, of not obtaining approval. Thus violating the relevant

rules and by-laws. There is also reference made by many who made statements to

the committee that they were aware of the 8.00 p.m hostel rule, and the meeting

held from about 8.00 p.m to 12.00 midnight and as such violated the hostel rule

which require students to be in the hostel by 8.00 p.m.

The statements recorded of all concerned at the inquiry, no doubt

gives an indication that the charges leveled against the Petitioner and others as in

letters Pl0A to PlOD are more or less established other than charge or Count

No.2.

I have now to examine the Inquiring Committee report produced

marked 2R12. It refer to the three (3) charges, similar to those contained in letters

Pl0A to Pl0B. The second page of 2R12 gives the names of persons who made

statements before the committee, inclusive of Petitioner's statements and

officials. There is in that page itself of the person who could not make a statement

f I

J I I

I I I

1 i !

15

and that there was no response to 2nd Respondent's request to appear before the

committee. The 3rd page of 2R12, refer to those persons who gave statements,

and letters produced and the attendance register and it states based on same the

Committee of Inquiry has arrived at a conclusion as follows:

(a) Exonerate students R.S.A. Hemantha.

(b) No material to convict or find guilty the Petitioners named therein on

charge or Count No.2 i.e without prior approval inviting outsiders to the

University premises to participate.

(c) That on12.3.2013 the meeting was held between 8.00 p.m & 12 midnight

and thereby breached the hostel rules by the Petitioner named therein and

or aided and abetted students to flout above rules and as such Petitioners

found guilty of count or charge Nos. 1 & 3, and punishment to be imposed.

This court observes that although the Petitioners have not specifically

faulted report 2R12, this court is unable to ascertain whether the Inquiring

Committee had in fact given its mind to Count No.1 i.e absence of prior approval

to hold a meeting. Report does not specifically and precisely consider Count No.

1. There is no doubt reference to the several statements of witnesses are made

and by perusing same court finds that material had been placed as regard Count

No.1

IIi

r

16

and (3). But the report lacks adequate reasoning other than to merely refer to the

several statement, from which one needs to infer, and arrive at a definite

conclusion.

This court, since it is a discretionary remedy, which is sought, is not

inclined to disturb the findings arrived at by the Respondents concerned, other

than expressing views in the context of this case on the principles and

applicability of the rule of proportionality. Nevertheless I am compelled to

observe, though no real prejudice had been caused to the Petitioners in the

conduct of the disciplinary procedure except due to their own inability to assert

their proper legal rights at the correct time or moment, there does not appear to

be strict compliance with University Grants Commission Circular No. 946 (2R13) in

the conduct of disciplinary inquiries, more particularly schedule 1 of same. In the

case in hand no formal charge sheet had been issued. However no prejudice

caused since the 3 charges had been made known prior to the inquiry as referred

to in letter P10A to PlOD (it should not be the case). Proceedings of the inquiry

should be made available, to either party to get adequately prepared. In the

absence of such proceedings a party would suffer in the progress of the trial or

inquiry. The authorities need not play 'hide and seek'. There should always be

transparency in the conduct of the inquiry and it should be an all inclusive inouiry.

f

17

A right to be defended if a request is made should not be denied. Nor should the

right to examine and cross-examine witnesses be denied, if requested. In any

event it is desirable for the panel to inform the parties of each others' basic rights

in the conduct of the inquiry, and have it recorded, as it is essential to establish

due compliance with the rules of natural justice by any Administrative Tribunal. It

does not mean just to give the bear minimum, and withhold what is essential, but

give what is due in a meaningful manner.

Proportionality is fast becoming a recognized and an independent ground

of review. No doubt it has the European influence, but our courts have time and

again expressed its application in judgments and made it more meaningful "I/hen

the need arises.

Courts have intervened to provide a remedy following the

impOSitions of grossly excessive punishment in natural justice cases. In R Vs.

Barnsley MBC, ex parte Hook (1976) 3 All ER 352, the lifelong deprivation of a

man's livelihood for having misbehaved by urinating in the street and using

abusive language is one familiar example. See also R Vs. Secretary for the Home

Dept., ex-parte Herbage (No.2) 1987 1 All ER 324, where a fundamental right not

to be inflicted with cruel and unusual punishment was recognized.

f

18

I would however before I proceed to apply the principle of

proportionality to the case in hand I prefer to quote a passage dealing with its

nature in other jurisdictions which support my views on the subject.

Nature of the Principles of Proportionality

Text Book of Administrative Law - 2nd Ed Peter Leyland & Terry Woods

Pg.217/218 ..

At this point it is instructive to discuss the related principle of proportionality,

which is widely accepted on the Continent, where it plays an important part not only in

the domestic law of Germany and France, but also in European Union law and in the

jurisprudence of the European Court on Human Rights. The concept originates in

German administrative law and is in some respects closely related to irrationality,

improper purpose and relevant and irrelevant consideration (see chapter 8).

Proportionality works on the assumption that administrative action ought not go

beyond the scope necessary to achieve its desired result. In other words, if measures

are considered to do more harm than good in reaching a given objective, they are liable

to be set aside. This is a useful concept to adopt when seeking to balance the exercise of

the kind of discretion placed in the hands of administrators. Proportionality may be

regarded as an extra safeguard which is activated only after it has been established that

a public body has the legal power to act, or that the body is not pursuing an improper

purpose, Le, even if these grounds do not apply, it may still be relevant to consider

whether the body concerned is acting proportionately (Craig 1994, p.414). At its

simplest, the court may be called upon to perform a kind of balancing exercise to assess

if the objective for an official decision justifies the means employed to achieve it, or

whether the means can be deemed to be disproportionate. (For a discussion of

I

1 I

! f ! I I I

I ,

I

I I

t r !

\ II i I I

19

proportionality and the related concept of manifest error in French administrative law,

see Brown and Bell 1993, pp.218 ff and 245 ff).

In the circumstances and in the context of this case, though I am somewhat

critical of the report 12R12 and the procedure adopted to hold the inquiry, it is

relevant to note that the Petitioners were all exonerated and or found not guilty

of Count No.2, i.e inviting outsiders to participate at the meeting without

approval. This is the most serious charge out of all three. The Committee of

Inquiry very correctly came to the conclusion that there is no material to proceed

on same. This court is of the view that based on proportionality the punishment

of 8 months is excessive in the circumstances of the case. Court makes ord~r to

reduce it to 4 months even though the period has lapsed and as for the record

and the consequence that flow should be mitigated in favour of the students

based only on a 4 months period. Discipline need to be maintained in a University.

In doing so the authorities concerned need to take the required steps and

students should obey the rules. On the other hand each student selected to a

University has a future destined to achieve a goal. The civil society will frown on

graduates after graduating from a University if they continue to resort to

indiscipline acts thereafter. This court is of the view that having considered the

I

I

!I! !

20

nature of the charges that were established, a period of 4 months would suffice,

to enable the Petitioners to be reformed for the betterment of the civil society.

Subject to above we proceed to dismiss this application without costs.

Application dismissed.

Gi~~

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL III

I