==== BLOCKS ==== 

Page 1 of 8

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

Court of Appeal Case No:

CPA/ 63 / 21

High Court Colombo Case No:

HC / BAL/680/20/6

Magistrate’s Court Colombo Case No:

B 28390/01/20

In the matter of an Application for bail

in terms of section 83 (1) of the

Poisons, Opium, and Dangerous Drugs

Ordinance.

Meettage Piyaseeli,

114, Rathna Udagama,

Boossa,

Galle.

Petitioner

Vs.

1.Hon. Attorney General,

Attorney General’s Department,

Colombo 12.

2.Officer-in-Charge,

Police Narcotics Bureau,

Colmbo 01.

Respondents

Wijayamuni Priyantha De Silva alias

Wijemuni Priyantha De Silva,

Remand Prison

Page 2 of 8

9th Suspect

And Now

In the matter of an application for

revision in terms of Article 138 of the

Constitution read with the High Court

of the Provinces (Special Provisions) Act

No. 19 of 1990.

Meettage Piyaseeli,

114, Rathna Udagama,

Boossa,

Galle.

Petitioner – Petitioner

Vs.

1. Hon. Attorney General,

Attorney General’s Department,

Colombo 12.

2. Officer-in-Charge

Police Narcotics Bureau,

Colombo 01.

Respondents – Respondents

Wijayamuni Priyantha De Silva alias Wijemuni Priyantha De Silva,

Remand Prison

9th Suspect – Respondent

Page 3 of 8

Before – Menaka Wijesundera J.

Neil Iddawala J.

Counsel – Sarath Jayamanne, PC with S. Mahawanniarachchi and Vineshka Mendis for

the petitioner.

Priyani Abeygunawardane, SSC for state.

Argued On – 16.11.2021

Decided On – 30.11.2021

MENAKA WIJESUNDERA J.

The instant application for revision has been filed to set aside the order of the learned

High Court Judge of Colombo dated 23.3.2021.

In the instant application the Counsel appearing for the petitioner stated that the

exceptional circumstances he is urging are as follows,

1) The B reports filed by the investigative officers do not carry a synopsis of the

evidence for the magistrate to consider before remanding the suspects which is a violation of section 115 (1) 0f the Code of Criminal Procedure Code Act no 15 of 1978.(hereinafter referred to as the CPC) 2) The petitioner was not physically present inside the boat which was taken in to

custody.

The position of the respondents is that on a tip off received by the Police Narcotics

Bearuea (hereinafter referred to as the PNB) they filed a confidential report before the

Magistrate on 3.2.2020, with regard to of an information of an illicit drug racket

allegedly taking place on the high seas of Sri Lanka, and as such the PNB had sought

the assistance of the Sri Lankan Navy.

Page 4 of 8

On 21st of February, the Navy officers had raided an Iranian ship on the high seas, and

had found eight polysack bags, four of which had contained a substance suspected to

be heroin, had been taken in to custody along with ten foreign crew members on boat,

and on the 1st of March 2020, the navy had noticed a boat , gliding towards the

Iranian ship, and the navy has handed over a single bag with the substance suspected

to be heroin to the boat, in order to find out as to for what purpose the sail boat has

come towards the ship and had thereafter ,surrounded the boat and had arrested the

people on the boat and the Navy had informed the PNB to investigate in to the person

to whom the said boat belongs and the PNB officers had arrested the owner of the

boat namely the 9th suspect Wijithamuny Priyantha De Silva , in Boose Galle at his

residence on 3rd of March.2020.Thereafter the suspect had been detained till the 9th

of March for questioning and further investigation, but the learned Magistrate had

been informed on the 3rd of March with a narration of the investigation and not based

on any statements recorded. Thereafter the PNB produced the suspect on B report to

the Magistrate on the 9th of March with a narration of the events once again by the

officer who was filling the same and the suspect had been remanded by the

Magistrate.

The method adopted to investigate this matter had been identified to be as controlled

delivery mechanism which had been introduced by the United Nations Convention in

Geneva in 2004 according to the position of the respondents. They have further stated

that Sri Lanka had been a signatory to the said convention and as such Sri Lankan Navy

along with the PNB adopts this method, currently in order to combat the illicit

trafficking of Narcotics. But the position of the petitioner is that although Sri Lanka had

been a signatory to the said Convention, we as a nation has not adopted the same as a

law, as such the Sri Lankan law enforcing authorities cannot adopt such techniques.

Page 5 of 8

The respondents have further stated that the petitioner although not physically

present inside the boat, he being the owner would have sponsored the boat with fuel

and the other necessities, hence he cannot plead ignorance. But this apparently is yet

to be investigated into and obviously not reported to the Magistrate as relevant

material with evidence. Therefore this Court is unable to take in to consideration mere

hypothetical submissions.

The Counsel for the Petitioner further submitted that the Navy had no authority to

arrest any person unless he or she is later rearrested by a person specified under

section 35 of the CPC.

But the Respondents contended that the Navy had authority on the waters the

suspects were arrested and they were later rearrested by the officers of the PNB.

The section of the CPC 115(1) quoted by the Petitioner states as follows,

“Whenever an investigation under this Chapter cannot be completed within the period

of twenty-four hours ………and there are grounds to believe that further investigations

are necessary the officer in charge of the police station or the inquirer forthwith

forward the suspect to the Magistrate ……..a report of the case together with a

summary of the statements if any made by each witness….”., and it very clearly

states that the Magistrate has to be furnished with a synopsis of the evidence

recorded against the suspect who is being produced for remanding because the

following subsection specifies the necessity for the Magistrate to record his or her

reasons if any before remanding the suspect. Therefore the law is very clear that the

Magistrate should be furnished with the evidence recorded against the suspect who is

being produced before him.

Therefore it is very clear that the investigative officers must submit a synopsis of the

statements recorded if any for the Magistrate to ascertain any reasons if any to

Page 6 of 8

remand the suspects. The case law submitted by the petitioner is very clear on this

point of law.

In the instant case the learned High Court Judge in several other bail applications

made with regard to the 5th, 3rd, 4th, 6th, and the 7th suspects pertaining to this case

have enlarged them on bail, on the same grounds urged by the petitioner before this

Court.

The explanation given by the respondents is to the above contention is that, the

instant investigation was done on the high seas and it was practically not possible to

adhere to the provisions of the law. But it has to be noted that there is no provision in

the law which says that the relevant provisions of the law can be ignored when the

situation demands. If that is so investigations could be carried out according to the

whims and fancies of any person.

In the instant case the report filed against the petitioner has been filed on the 3rd of

March and in the same, there is no synopsis of the statements but a narration of the

arrest and the fact he is the owner of the boat taken in to custody, and even in the

subsequent reports filed, there is no statements of a witnesses recorded against the

petitioner. Therefore although a report has been filed in terms of section 115(1) of the

CPC, the requirements of the said section has not been followed.

Therefore this Court has to note that the petitioner had been taken in to custody

without proper reasoning recorded by the Magistrate.

Nevertheless in the instant application the Respondents are vehemently objecting to

the position taken up by the Petitioner on the basis that the Petitioner has not urged

the same before the High Court.

Page 7 of 8

But this Court is exercising its revisionary powers in which this Court has the power

even to act on its own and call for a record and correct the errors if justice demands.In

the case of Mariam BeebeevsSeyad Mohamed 1965 68 SLR 36, Sansoni CJ has stated

that in revision...”it is exercised in some cases by the Judge of his own motion …if it is

brought to his notice”. Therefore we are unable to agree with that contention and we

further state that we are unable to agree with the fact that practicality in a situation

can bend and amend the law according to the whims and fancies of the investigators.

The respondents further submitted that the instant investigations were carried out

according to the new method of controlled delivery adopted by the UN Convention

against Transitional Organized Crime 2000. But the petitioner pointed out that it has

not been enacted as law in this country, and the Act cited by the respondents also

does not indicate whether the said method has been legalized in this country. The case

law cited by the respondents has said that it is unable to adopt the said treaty when it

has not been passed by the legislature.

According to the provisions of the law under which the petitioner had been produced ,

a suspect to be enlarged on bail , Court must be satisfied that there are exceptional

grounds and the term exceptional has been lately defined as varying from case to

case.

In the instant matter the exceptionality pleaded by the petitioner is that the violation

of the provisions of the CPC and the fact that the petitioner not being on board at the

time of the boat being taken into custody, although it had belonged to him.

Therefore upon considering the submissions of both parties it is the considered view

of this Court that at the time of the arrest of the petitioner the Magistrate was not

furnished with sufficient material to remand the suspect, and nor does the subsequent

Page 8 of 8

reports filed state any, and this, although not pleaded before the learned High Court

Judge, this Court can observe and exercise its powers of revision.

Hence the instant application for revision is allowed and the order dated 23rd March

2021 is hereby set aside and this Court direct the learned High Court Judge to enlarge

the 9th suspect namely Wijemuny Priyantha De Silva on bail with suitable bail

conditions.

Hence the instant application for revision is allowed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.