==== BLOCKS ==== 

'"

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A.L.A. No. 493/06

DC Kandy 20456/L

In the matter of an application by way of

Leave to Appeal.

Manel Dissanayake

1/38, Heerassagala Road,

Kandy.

2nd Defendant-Petitioner.

Vs

1

Hettiarachchige Manel alias Manel

H ettiarachchi

2/38, Heerassagala Road

Kandy.

Planintiff-Respondent.

1. Victor Seneviratne

1/38, Heerassagala Road

Kandy.

3 Seetha Chandrasekara

32, Heerassaga.a Road

Kandy. (Now Deceased)

1 st and 3rd Defendant-Respondent

! I I

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

Oeepali Wijesundera J.

AND

3A. Indrani Dissanayake

32, Heerassagala Road

Kandy.

3A Defendant-Respondent

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

M.M.A. Gaffoor J.

: H. Withanachchi for the

2nd Defendant-Petitioner.

M. Premachandra for the

Plaintiff-Respondent.

: 10th March, 2015.

: 05th October, 2015.

The plaintiff Respondent has instituted an action against the 1 st, 2nd

and 3Ard defendant petitioners in the District Court of Kandy for a

declaration of title and for ejectment and vacant possession of the portion

J

I l!

IIII

I

of land they are alleged to have encroached. At the trial the 1 st and 2nd

~

defendant petitioners have agreed to a judgment to be given after I

2 I

t !

inspection and court had inspected the land in issue and a consent

judgment was entered in terms of the settlement (P4). The 3A defendant

petitioner has never come to court and an exparte decree was entered

after recording the plaintiffs and the surveyor's evidence. When the fiscal

had gone to execute the decree the 1 st and 2nd defendant respondents

have objected and an inquiry was held by the District Judge and an order

was given refusing their objections. The instant application had been filed

against the said order of the District Judge of Kandy delivered on

18/12/2006.

The petitioner's argument is that the exparte order given against

the 3rd defendant has affected the rights of the 1 st and 2nd defendants by

part of their house getting included in the carpus mentioned in the order

given. The petitioners stated that the exparte judgment can only be

executed against the 3A defendant and not against the 1 st and 2nd

defendants. Petitioners further stated the settlement judgment and the

exparte judgment are in conflict and to permit the plaintiff respondent to

execute writ against 3A defendant would amount to an abuse of the

process of court .Petitioner stated the exparte judgment against the 3A

defendant can only be executed against the 3A defendant without

causing prejudice to the judgment entered after inspection.

3

IIIIir

~ !

f ! I I

The plaintiff respondent stated that the 1 st and 2nd defendant

petitioners claimed to be the tenants of the 3A defendant petitioner and

the exparte judgment given against the 3A defendant was entered on the

same day the settlement judgment was entered, after the plaintiffs and

the surveyor's evidence was recorded. The surveyor has stated that an

extent of about two perches of land has been encroached on to from the

plaintiffs land to Lot 3 which is owned by the 3A defendant which the 1 st

and 2nd defendants are occupying as tenants. This is state in plan No.

2003-40 and the surveyor in his evidence to court also has stated this.

The defendant respondent stated that P5 decree was entered

based on these judgments and subsequently amended on 25/11/2004

which is marked as P6. According to the amended decree writ of

possession was to be executed for ejectment of the defendants and all

those who are holding under them from the southern boundary of the

land described in the schedule.

The plaintiff respondent has filed contempt papers in court for

obstruction caused by 1 st and 2nd defendant petitioners while the

contempt case was pending the 2nd defendant petitioner had filed the

instant application.

4

•

The plaintiff respondent stated since the 1 st and 2nd respondents

are 3A defendant's tenants and that they are residing in the house and

that the judgment against the 3A defendant gave right to the plaintiff

respondent to a judgment as prayed for in the plaint against all the

defendants. The plaintiff respondent further stated the said judgment

allowed the ejectment of the defendant and all those who are holding

under the defendant. The plaintiff respondent further stated that the 1 st

and 2nd defendants have not claimed or proved an independent title from

the 3A defendant but admitted and prayed from a declaration to be the

tenant of the 3A defendant and they are bound by any judgment against

the 3A defendant as the undisputed lawful owner of the said land.

All parties have not disputed the fact that the 1 st and 2nd defendant

petitioners are tenants of the 3A defendant and is in occupation of the

house belonging to the 3A defendant according to the plant No. 2003-40

a strip of two perches of land belonging to the plaintiffs land had been

encroached by 3A defendant, the land shown as Lot 3 is occupied by 1 st

and 2nd defendants. The exparte judgment given against the 3A

defendant petitioner on this issue have not been challenged by the 3A

defendant. The prayer to the plaintiff respondent's plaint to evict the

defendants which includes the 1 st and 2nd defendants as well has not

been challenged in appeal by the 3A defendant. The exparte judgment

stands unchallenged.

5

•

The learned District Judge has carefully analysed the documents

and evidence placed before him and quite correctly refused the

objections of the 1 st and 2nd defendant petitioners and allowed the plaintiff

to execute decree of the District Court.

For the afore stated reasons I decide to refuse the application of

the petitioner respondent. The application of the petitioner is dismissed

with costs fixed at Rs. 50,0001=.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

M.M.A. Gaffoor J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

6 IIt rl II