==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE OEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA Case No: CA /03/2006 Kalutara - High Court No: 280/2003

Kankanam Thantrige Samantha Pushapa Kumara

Accused - Appellant Vs. Hon. Attorney General, Attorney General Department, Colombo 12.

Plaintiff-Defendant

1 J I i C.A 03/2006

Before

Counsel

1

H.C. Kalutara No: HC 280/2003.

Sisira J. de Abrew, J (Acting P j CAl &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J.

Amila Palliyage for the Accused-Appellant.

Sarath Jayamanna D.S.G for the Attorney-

General.

Argued & Decided on: 10.12.2013

Sisira J. de Abrew, J (Acting P / CAl

The accused-appellant is not present in court. Counsel

submits that he is on bail. According to the letter of Superintendent of

Prisons dated 27.03.2007 the accused-appellant was released on bail

on 20.07.2006. Amila Palliyage assigned counsel is for the accused-

appellant.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases. The

accused-appellant in this case was convicted for raping a girl named

Nishani Geetha Liyanage who was under 16 years of age and was

sentenced to a term of 10 years rigorous imprisonment and to pay a

fine of Rs.5000j- carryinga default sentence of 2 years imprisonment.

Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence he has

2

appealed to this court. Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as

follows:

On the day of the incident around 8.30 in the morning the

accused-appellant with· whom Nishani Geeth~ Liyanage had a love

affair, came to the room of Geetha Liyanage. Thereafter Geetha

I

Liyanage asked as to why he came. Thereafter the accused-appellant

pushed her to the bed and raped her. Geetha Liyanage at one stage

she has stated that it was lowered down by the accused-appellant.

!

ft

stated that the accused removed her panty. Under cross examination

Learned Counsel for the accused appellant tried to contend that since

her panty had not been removed, it was difficult to perform sexual

". intercourse on her. But we are mindful of the evidence at page 46 and

47 of the brief. At page 46 and 47 she has said that her panty had

been removed by the accused appellant. Chandrika Priyanganie who is

a cousin sister of Geetha Liyanage walked into the house of the

prosecutrix at this time. She saw the accused -appellant running away

from the rear door. Geetha Liyanage at this stage told Chandrika that

she was raped by the accused-appellant. She notic~d blood on her

underskirt. The doctor who examined Geetha Liyanage noticed some

abrasions on her thigh when she was being admitted to the hospital.

According to the Judicial Medical Officer there were old tears on her

I I 1 I

3

hymen. Judicial Medical Officer had examined Geetha Liyanage on

05.09.1998. Incident had taken place on 28.08.1998. The accused-

appellant in his dock statement has denied this incident. The evidence

of the prosecutrix is well corroborated by the evidence of Chandrika.

Further Geetha Liyanage made a prompt complaint to Chandrika to the

effect that she was raped by the accused-appellant. When we consider

all these matters we are of the opinion that the prosecution has proved

its case beyond reasonable doubt. We therefore uphold the conviction

and the sentence of the learned Trial Judge and affirm the conviction

and the sentence.

Appeal dismissed.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J.

I agree.

JUDEGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

Vkg/-

J

f f I !

\II r

r

[

f f , !