==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

C.A.Appeal No. 263/2011 Vs.

1

In the matter of an application for the

issue of a mandate in the nature of a

writ of Certiorari under article 140 of the

Constitution of Sri Lanka.

University Grants Commission, No.20,

Ward Place, Colombo 07.

PETITIONER

1. Anthar Visvavidyaleeya Vurtheeya

Samithi Maha Sammelanya, Student

Affairs Division, University of

Peradeniya, Peradeniya.

2. Inter University Services and Trade

Union, Medical Faculty, University

of Sri Jayawardenapura,

Gangodawila,

Gangodawila, Nugegoda.

3. Sri Lanka Nidahas Sevaka

Sangamaya,

Maintenance Division, University of

Colombo, Colombo 03.

2

4. Swadeena Podu Sevaka Sangamaya,

University of Kelaniya, Kelaniya.

5. Inter University Sub Warden Union,

University of Moratuwa, Moratuwa.

6. Peradeniya Wisvavidyaleeya

Lipikaru Ha Samanthara Shreni

Sewa Sangamaya, Accounts

Division, University of Kelaniya,

Kelaniya.

7. The Minister of Labour Relations &

Productivity Promotions, Labour

Secretariat, Narahenpita, Colombo 5.

8. The Commissioner of Labour,

Labour Secretariat, Narahenpita,

Colombo 5.

9. Mr. P. Navaratne, 570/B/01,

Ekamuthu Mawatha, Off Nugegoda

Road, Talawatugoda.

RESPONDENTS

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued on

Decided on

S.Sriskandarajah, J,

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

DEEP ALI WIJESUNDARA,J

Manoli Jinadasa, for the Petitioner,

Chamantha Weerakoon Unamboowa with Kumuduni Keerahella

for the1st to 3rd and 5th Respondents.

Sobitha Rajakaruna,SSC

for the 7th and 8th Respondents

23.07.2012

22.02.2013

The Petitioner is a legal entity established under the Universities Act No.16 of

1978. The 7th Respondent, the Minister of Labour Relations and Productivity

Promotions referred an industrial dispute between the 1st to 6th Respondents (on one

part) and the Petitioner (on the other part) for arbitration before the 9th Respondent.

The matter in dispute that was referred for arbitration is as follows:-

"Whether the non-granting of the three (3) increments which were extended to some

grades in the non-academic staff in terms of Circular No.205 of 25/03/1997 and the

Circular No.730 of 6/05/ 1998 issued by the University Grants Commission based on

the B.C. Perera Salary Commission Report 1995 to other grades in the said staff is

justified, and if not, to what relief they are entitled."

The Arbitrator, after an inquiry, made an award on the following terms:-

"In the final analysis based on the aforesaid observations and findings,

I am satisfied that the Applicant Union's claim is reasonable. Therefore,

3

The Respondent University Grants Commission shall implement the

Following course of action:-

1) Those in the clerical and above grades to be absorbed into a Management

Assistants Grade in line with the Public Administration

Circular of 30/12/2004, which explains the contents of the gazette

Notification No.1372/23 of 24/12/2004;

2) The Management Assistants Grade (A9 )and above, cover non-executive

be merged with the existing technical grade, thereby ensuring equal

status, while removing the disparities; the new grade to be termed

Management-cum-Technical Grade;

3) Arrears of salary due to be computed and paid within 45 days of

Publication of the award in the government gazette; also this award to be

effective from the date of reference of this dispute; i.e., 22/09/2004.

The Petitioner contended that the finding of the learned Arbitrator is contrary to

or inconsistent with the evidence led in the inquiry, and the Petitioner further stated

that the Arbitrator in his award has gone out of his mandate and has given reliefs which

are not specified as disputes between parties.

The evidence led at the arbitration revealed that upon agitation by Trade Unions,

to give relief to various grades of University staff, B.C. Perera Salary Commission was

appointed to look into the grievances of the University staff. The B.C. Perera

Commission report in relation to salaries recommended 3 salary increments to be

granted to the technical grades on the premise that the level of remuneration of the

middle level technical group in the present structure is lower than that of the clerical

and allied grades. In the public service it has been accepted that technical officers,

considering the qualifications and the training required, be placed higher than the

4

clerical and allied service group. The said B.C. Perera Commission identified 54

categories in the technical grade who should be placed on 3 incremental steps higher in

the relevant salary scales. The Petitioner, to implement this proposal published

Circulars Nos.705 and 730, granted the technical grades specified in the said report 3

salary increments. When these salary increments were given, there was an allegation

that the technical grades had not been properly identified for the payment of 3

increments. Thereafter the Petitioner, by its Circular No.750, suspended the granting of

3 salary increments to the technical grades until there is a proper identification of the

technical grade. The technical grade staff, through their Trade Union, instituted a case

before the Court of Appeal bearing No. CA Writ 987/99 and demanded that they be

granted the 3 salary increments recommended by the B.C. Perera Commission. In the

Court of Appeal, both the Petitioner and the Trade Union arrived at a settlement

comprehensively identifying those eligible for 3 increments. By this process the

technical grade staff were identified with the agreement of both parties and the case

was settled accordingly. The technical grade staff, as identified before the Court of

Appeal, were granted the 3 salary increments.

The granting of these 3 salary increments to the technical grade officers prompted the

clerical and allied grades to agitate for salary increments and they too were demanding

the salary increment granted to technical grades. To look into this issue, a Committee

was appointed, headed by Professor Ratnayaka. This Committee, too, recommended

that the technical grades be given 3 additional salary increments over and above the

clerical and allied grades. However, the said Committee also granted the clerical and

allied grades a salary revision in consideration of their representation, and this salary

revision was effected by a subsequent Circular. The clerical and allied staff had not

complained against this salary revision, but they have still agitating that they be given

the 3 salary increments that were given to the technical grades. This is the dispute that

was referred for arbitration.

5

In determining the dispute the Arbitrator has gone into the question that the

identification of technical officers was not properly done, and he observed in his award

under the heading of dividing line separating technical and non technical staff. Under

the dividing line, technical and non-technical staff, the learned Arbitrator observed:

from the in-depth investigation, I have found that there are a vast number of employees

in the University employment, particularly - (a) holding non-technical places at the

recruitment; and (b) Routing non-technical positions to the technical staff. In the

circumstances it is clear that several lapses had occurred, and it is difficult to draw a

line separating the two, technical and others. There are hundreds of employees falling

under these two categories. A question may be asked, if an employee has no technical

qualification to perform the technical assignment, then why this discrepancy - is it the

qualification or the job that should be the deciding factor?

Making the above observation, the Arbitrator has miss-directed himself in the

issue that is before him and has thought it fit to amalgamate the technical grade and the

non-technical grade clerical staff into one category and has made an award to create a

Management Assistant Grade. The reference that was made to the Arbitrator is to

resolve a dispute to consider whether the B.C. Perera salary Commission Report of 1997

that recommends 3 increments to the technical grades should also be extended to others

in the said staff of the University. The evidence led before the Arbitrator indicates that

when the 3 increments that were recommended for the technical staff, the non-technical

staff agitated for the same relief and a Commission was appointed to look into the said

grievance, and Professor Ratnayake, heading a Committee, has recommended salary

revision to clerical and allied grades. In this background the clerical and allied grades

has once again agitated for the 3 increments that was given to the technical staff. The

technical grade staff were, in fact, identified with the agreement of both parties when an

application of the technical grade officers was filed in the Court of Appeal, and it was

the opinion of the B.C. Perera Committee, that the technical grade staff should be placed

on 3 incremental steps due to their work and qualifications, and the technical grade

6

staff were placed in this position after a careful study by the B.C. Perera Committee and

also by the Committee headed by Professor Ratnayake. These two Committees have

specifically identified the technical grade officers as a separate category and

recommended that they should be granted some benefit in relation to their qualification

and experience. The Arbitrator in this award has not taken these aspects into

consideration and, by his award, has nullified the said definition by absorbing or

merging the technical staff with the clerical grade staff, giving them equal status. The

Arbitrator has based this finding in reference to a Public Adminsitration Circular dated

30/12/2004. The Petitioner's position, right throughout is, that unless the Petitioner

adopts the said Public Administration Circular, the said Public Administration Circular

will not be binding or has effect to the staff of the Petitioner. As the said Circular was

not adopted by the Petitioner, the Arbitrator cannot consider the said Circular as

applicable to the employees of the Petitioner. In the above circumstances the Arbitrator

has miss-directed himself in answering the issue before him and has arrived at a finding

that would cause more industrial disputes than settling the dispute that was forwarded

to him. For the above reasons I set aside the Arbitrator's Award and allow the

Application of the Petitioner for a writ of certiorari without cost.

President of the Court of Appeal

Deepali Wijesundara,J

I agree,

Judge of the Court of Appeal

7