==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C A 12 12011 Writ

BEFORE

COUNSEL

In the matter of an application for a mandate in the nature of a Writ of Certiorari, under and in terms of Article 140 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

Samantha Kumara Madawanna Arachchi,

No. 80 E, Mangala Mawatha,

5th Lane, Sooriyapaluwa,

Ramuthugala, Kadawatha.

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. Urban Development Authority, 6th & i h Floors, Sethsiripaya, Battaramulla. 2. Nihal Fernando, Acting Director General,

Sethsiripaya, Battaramulla.

RESPONDENTS

SATHYA HETTGE, P.C.J. (P/C.A.) And

UP AL Y ABEYRA TIDffi, J.

Upul Kumrapperuma for the Petitioner

S. Gnanathasan ASG with D. Thilakawardena SC for the Respondents

SUPPORTED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

07.06.2011

09.06.2011

The Petitioner is an Assistant Director (Lands) attached to the Urban

Development Authority the 1 st Respondent of this Application. By letter dated

16.01.2009 the Director (Human Resource Management) of the 1st Respondent's

Authority had informed the Petitioner to give a statement to the inquiring officer in

relation to a transaction with regard to a land leased out to MIS Jayasinghe

Transport Company Limited. Upon the said direction the Petitioner made a

statement to the said inquiring officer M.M.J Yalegama who was a retired police

constable.

Thereafter by letter dated 07.10.2010 the 2nd Respondent had issued a charge

sheet consisting of 10 charges to the Petitioner and had informed him to show

cause within 14 days as to why he should not be dismissed or any punishment

should not be imposed on him for anyone or more of the charges levelled against

him. Thereafter by a letter addressed to the 2nd Respondent dated 01.11.2010 the

Petitioner had denied all the charges levelled against him.

In this application the Petitioner seeks a mandate in the nature of writ of

certiorari to quash the said appointment of the inquiring officer.

The Petitioner's complaint is that the appointment of a retired public officer

as an investigating officer to conduct a preliminary investigation is contrary to the

provisions of the Establishment Code. The learned counsel for the Petitioner

contended that the appointment of a retired public officer to conduct a preliminary

investigation is contrary section 13: 1 of the Chapter XLVIII of the Establishment

Code and under said section only a working officer can be appointed to conduct a

3

preliminary investigation. He further submitted that according to the Establishment

Code "officer" means a serving public officer and not a retired public officer.

Therefore the learned counsel submitted that the said preliminary investigation is

ultra vires the section 13: 1 of the Chapter XL VIn of the Establishment Code and

hence the said preliminary investigation and its findings have no force in law.

The learned Additional Solicitor General strongly objected to the application

of the Petitioner. Learned ASG submitted that since the appointment of the

inquiring officer has been taken place as far back in 16.01.2009 the Petitioner

cannot maintain this application due to his inordinate delay in coming to court.

I now consider the said submissions of both counsels. It is apparent from the

letter dated 16.01.2009 (P 3) that the Petitioner had been informed to appear before

the Inquiring Officer at 9.30 am on 20.01.2009. Thereafter on 20th January 2009

the Petitioner had made a statement to the said inquiring officer. After the said

inquiry, by letter dated 07.10.2010, the 2nd Respondent had issued a charge sheet

(P 4) consisting of 10 charges against the Petitioner and had directed the Petitioner

to show cause to the said charge sheet within 14 days. The learned ASG further

submitted that the disciplinary inquiry under the said charge sheet has already been

commenced and it is pending.

When I consider the said circumstances it appears to me that the Petitioner

who willingly participated in the said inquiry has remained silent almost two years

without coming to courts. He did not question the jurisdiction of the inquiring

officer at any stage of the said preliminary inquiry.

The learned ASG submitted that upon the said charge sheet the disciplinary

inquiry has already been commenced. The Petitioner in his application to this court

has not mentioned the present position of the disciplinary inquiry. But it is

4

apparent from the letter dated 01.11.2010 (P 5) which had been sent to the 2nd

Respondent in reply to the charge sheet by the Petitioner that the said objection

namely; the appointment of the inquiring officer is bad in law, has been taken up at

the disciplinary inquiry by the Petitioner.

In the case of Sundarkaran V s. Bharathi and Others (1989) 1 Sri L.R. 45 it

was observed that "The court will not be acting in vain in quashing the

determination not to issue the licence for 1987 because the right of the Petitioner to

be fully and fairly heard in future applications is been recognized."

Since this question has now been raised at the disciplinary inquiry by the

Petitioner by his said letter dated 01.11.2010 and since the said disciplinary inquiry

is still pending, I am of the view that the present application of the Petitioner to this

court is premature. It is to be noted that certiorari is a discretionary remedy and the

court will not issue the writ if it would be futile to do so.

In the said circumstances I see no merit in the Petitioner's Application.

Therefore I refuse to issue a stay order as prayed for in the Petition and I dismiss

the Petitioner's Application for Writ without costs.

Application dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

SATHYA HETTIGE, PCJ, PCA

I agree.

President of t6e Court of Appeal

\

I I

I I