==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I

1 I I

J I 1 !

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. 141/2006

H.C. Galle 1487

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

1. Liyana Mendis Gunadasa

2. Liyana Mendis Premadasa

3. Liyana Mendis Ariyadasa

ACCUSED-APPElLANTS

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

RESPONDENT

Anil Silva P.c. for the Accused-Appellants

Rohantha Abeysuriya D.S.G. for the Respondnet

09.06.2014

1

2

DECIDED ON: 20.06.2014

GOONERATNE J.

The three Accused-Appellants were indicted for an offence

committed on 24.5.1985 on two counts. The 1st count is a charge of murder of

one Andiris Appu and the 2nd count is a charge of attempted murder by

causing injuries to one Leslie. However all the Accused-Appellants were

acquitted of the charge of murder on the 1st count and on the 2nd count the

trial Judge found guilty of same and imposed a sentence of 7 years rigorous

imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 21,000/- (carries default sentence of 3 years

R.I) to be paid by each Accused-Appellants and from that sum Rs. 20,000/- to

be paid by each Accused to the injured party as compensation. The balance

sum of Rs. 1000/- from each Accused to be paid as a fine.

At the hearing of this appeal the learned President's Counsel

submitted that the offence had been committed 30 years ago and in view of

the delay he cited several case laws and invited this court that a custodial

sentence should not be imposed, and that his clients should be treated very

3

leniently. He also submitted that his clients would be willing to pay

compensation to the victim, and submitted that court should consider the

delay of 30 years to be considered as a mitigatiory factor. Learned D.S.G. did

not oppose the view of President's Counsel. I would for better understanding

of all the sequence of events refer to following details

Date of offence

Date of Indictment

Convicted in High Court

Appeal heard and concluded-

24.5.1985

23.9.1993

23.02.2006

09.06.2014

The above dates and figures no doubt demonstrate the lapse of time

taken to finally conclude the case of the 3 Appellants. As such there is

justification to consider the mitigatory factor of delay for the benefit of the

Appellants. My views are fortified on perusing the following case law.

Karunaratne Vs. The State 78 NLR 413 ...

Held by Rajaratnam J. and Ratwatte, J. (Vythialingam J. dissenting) that while the trial

judge was right in sentencing the accused to a term of two years rigorous imprisonment and

to pay a fine of Rs. 1000 and that even if the provisions relating to the suspension of

sentences were in operation at that time and the case was concluded in due time, this was

not a case where the sentence would have been suspended, having regard to the gravity of

the offence. But on the other hand, when a deserving conviction and sentence have to be

confirmed ten years after the proved offence the judge cannot disregard the serious

consequences and disorganization that it can cause to the accused's family.

~

4

Therefore the delay of 10 years to final conclude the case is a very relevant

circumstance to be taken into consideration and in the circumstances of the case a

suspended sentence is appropriate.

Ananda Vs. A.G. (1995) 2 SLR 316

Held:

(1) An accused has a right to be tried and punished for an offence committed within a

reasonable period of time, depending on the circumstances of each case. A delay of

over 18 years to dispose of a Criminal Case is much long period by any standard, delays

of this nature are generally regarded as mitigating factors.

(2) It appears that the Appellant has turned over a New leaf.

(3) It is to be seen that the appellant had spent a period of 9 months in remand custody

from 4.5.81 - 9.2.82, in connection with the instant case, there is no indication on

record to show that the Magistrate had considered this matter in passing the sentence

of the Appellant.

In the case in hand the long delay of 30 years from the date of

offence is a mitigatory factor and no court would be able to decide otherwise

mainly for the reason that the court procedure, itself has taken to finally

conclude the matter by at least two decades. Such delays not only need to be

avoided but condemned in the interest of justice. As such we allow the

conviction to stand and substitute a sentence and impose a reduced sentence

of 2 years rigorous imprisonment, suspended for a period of 5 years and a fine

of Rs. 7500/- each which carries a default sentence of 6 months simple

I

f f I

f

r ! If I

5

imprisonment. In addition we direct that the victim be paid a sum of Rs.

30,000/- by each Accused-Appellant which also carries a default sentence of 6

months simple imprisonment.

Appeal allowed as above.

6J~~

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL I

!II

1II