==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

c.A. Application No.679/2008

In the matter of an Application for a

mandate in the nature of Writ of

Certiorari and Writ of Mandamus under

Article 140 of the Constitution of Sri

Lanka.

Basnayake Kariyapperumalage Nihal

Rupasinghe

Sinharagama, Kumbukwewa,

Mahawa.

Petitioner

Vs.

1. The Air Force Commander,

Air Force Headquarters,

P.O. Box 594,

Colombo.

2. M.H. Karannagoda

Air Vice Marshall

Director of Administration,

Air Force Headquarters,

Colombo.

Respondents

Before:

Counsel:

Argued on:

Decided on:

S.Sriskandarajah J

2

S. Sriskandarajah, J. P (C/ A)

W.Dayarathne P.C with Mrs.R. Jayawardane

For the Petitioner

M.M. B.Fernando DSG

For the Respondent

10.05.2011

27.07.2011

The Petitioner of this Application was a regular Airman of Sri Lanka Air Force from the

year 1996. After serving 2 years, the Petitioner claimed, that as a result of a terrorist

attack on 25/08/1998 at the base of Mankulam, he became disabled.

The Respondents submitted that the 1st information of the Petitioner's injury was by

way of a signal issued by the parent station which states that the injury was caused due

to misfire of the Petitioner's own weapon. The statement of Airman 18640 AC.

Wijeratne, who was on duty on the date of the incident along with the Petitioner when

describing the said incident has not mentioned a terrorist attack on the said Airman.

The Respondents claim that the petitioner has received the said injury by a misfire of his

own weapon. The Petitioner in support of his position relied on a statement made by

the Commanding Officer in Form 551 that the injury was caused by a terrorist attack.

But the said statement made by the Commanding Officer was thereafter rectified by the

same Commanding Officer by his letter dated 17th December 2003 stating that the initial

casualty signal and the incidental report sent had confirmed that the injury has been

sustained due to misfire of his own weapon. However the Form551 indicated same as

Gun short injury due to enemy fire due to oversight and the document (F115) cannot be

3

used as evidence. As such here by confirm that the injury sustained by the airman is

due to misfire of his own weapon.

The Petitioner was directed by document dated 25/9/1998 to be present before a

Medical Board and several Medical Boards were held to review his status with regard

to his fitness. The 1St Medical Board test was on 27/10/98 and the final report was on

20/10/2003. The Medical Board recommended the invalidation of the Petitioner after

considering the said reports. In consideration of the nature of the injuries, the Petitioner

has been placed on a lowered permanent medical category under the provisions of

paragraph 10 of Chapter 2 of the Air Force Order No. 680, commonly referred to as the

Air Force Health Policy and Assigned Light Duties.

Thereafter a final decision was taken for invalidation of the Petitioner after one year of

rehabilitation with effect from 20th March 2003. The Respondents submitted that this is

the procedure in regard to all personnel placed on a lowered permanent medical

category. In keeping with this decision, the petitioner was invalidated with effect from

20th May 2004. The Petitioner made a complaint to the Human Rights Commission and

the Human Rights Commission in its recommendation dated 7/11/2006, after

considering the facts and circumstances of the Petitioner's application, has not made

any observations on the cause of the injury caused to the Petitioner but recommended

that the Petitioner be paid a permanent pension. The Respondents submitted that the

said recommendation cannot be implemented due to the provisions of the Air Force

Pension Scheme. The said Pension Scheme provides in section 19(1)(b) that, a person to

be entitled for pension has to complete a period of 12 years. In the case of the

Petitioner, he has only completed 7 years in service; therefore the Petitioner is not

entitled to the benefit of pension. As there is a specific provision in the Air Force

Pension Scheme in relation to the award of pension; that a person has to complete a

given period, and as this Petitioner has not fulfilled that requirement, the Petitioner

cannot claim it as of right that he be paid a pension.

4

The Petitioner has also claimed that the decision for not to grant him" combat casualty

status" was wrong as the injury he sustained is from a terrorist attack and therefore he

has sought in this application that the said decision should be quashed by a Writ of

Certiorari. The Petitioner's main claim that the injury was caused by a terrorist attack is

only supported by a statement in Form 551 issued on 8/10/1998. That is a standard

form in which certain questions are raised and the answers to these questions are left

blank, to be filled by the Commanding Officer. One of the questions raised was: "Was

the injury due to his own fault, i.e., did it arise from negligence or misconduct or any

blameworthy cause within his own control?" This question was answered in the

negative "No". The other question posed was, "If so, state what way?" This question

was answered as "Due to terrorist gunshot attack."

The Respondents' position is that the aforesaid document was filled and issued

subsequent to the incident report which was the 1st information with regard to the

incident and that report clearly stated, the injury was due to misfire of his own weapon.

The Commander who has filled the aforesaid Form 551 has, by his subsequent letter

dated 17th December 2003, rectified his error and has stated that the Form 551, which

has stated gunshot injury due to enemy fire was due to oversight and the document

F551 cannot be used as evidence, and he has confirmed that the injury caused to the

Airman was sustained due to misfire of his own weapon.

Whether the injury of the Airman was caused by a misfire of his own weapon or by a

terrorist attack is a question of fact and it has to be decided on consideration of material

evidence and the circumstances. The relevant officers after careful consideration of the

facts have come to the conclusion that the injury caused to the Petitioner was due to the

misfire of the Petitioner's own weapon. The application before me is a judicial review

application and this Court, in judicial review proceedings considers on the legality of

the decision and not on questions of fact, whether the decision by the relevant officers

5

are right or wrong, but in considering the facts and circumstances, the decision that the

injury was caused due to misfire of the Airman's own weapon cannot be considered as

unreasonable. In these circumstances this Court is not inclined to interfere in the

decisions made by the Respondents and hence this Court dismisses this application

without costs.

~.~/t . ......---President of the Court of Appeal