==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A 7S0/1998(F) D.C Colombo S062/SPL

P. D. Keels Limited of No. 130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2.

PETITIONER

Vs.

J.W.Phillip Eardley Vernon Boteju Of No. 183, Nawala Road, Rajagiriya.

RESPONDENT

And

P. D. Keels Limited of No. 130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2.

PETITIONER-APPELLANT

Vs.

J.W.Phillip Eardley Vernon Boteju Of No. 183, Nawala Road, Rajagiriya.

RESPONDENT -RESPONDENT

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERA TNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J.

Palitha Kumarasinghe P.C with Asanka Ranwala For the Petitioner-Appellant

D.C. Mendis P.c. for the Defendant-Respondent-Respondent

14.02.2012

18.05.2012

2

This appeal concerns an order made by the learned District

Judge of Colombo on or about 7.9.1998 discharging order nisi pertaining to

registration of lis pendens in respect of an allotment of land marked lot (3) in

plan bearing No. 220, in the Colombo Land Registry. It would be necessary

to briefly state the relevant facts to ascertain the involvement of the

Appellant and Respondent.

One Naomi Leela Elizabeth Perera became entitled tothe above

allotment of land (lot 3) and by another plan bearing No. 1592 of 20.3.1997

caused the said lot 3 to be subdivided into two lots namely 'A' & 'B'.

3

Further the above Naomi Leela Elizabeth Perera caused the said lot 'B' to be

subdivided into 3 lots marked Bl, B2 & B3 by plan 1593 of 23.8.1993. As

such the said subdivided lots B 1, B2 & B3 is a part of lot 3 in above plan

bearing No. 220. The above named Naomi Leela Elizabeth Perera

transferred lot B 1, together with right of way over lots B2 & B3 to the

Appellant by deed No. 678 of 3.9.1997. By October 1997 the Respondent

filed a lis pendens in respect of the entire lot 3 in plan No. 220. Registration

of the lis pendens as above is the dispute and the appellant's position is that

it is unnecessary to register the lis pendens and the Respondent did not

register the lis pendens for a period of 11 years until the Appellant purchased

the property. (As pleaded in the Petition of Appeal). Appellant argue that

Respondent filed a lis pendens mala fide with intention to cause loss and

damage to the Appellant and also urge that under Section 33 of the

Registration of Documents Ordinance the Appellant is entitled to move the

District Court since registration of the lis pendens has become unnecessary.

Section 33 of the said reads thus:

(1) Registration of a priority notice, seizure notice, seizure priority notice, caveat, or

lis pendens may be cancelled at the request in writing of the person by whom or

on whose behalf it was presented for registration.

(2) A District Court may, on the application of any person interested in any property

affected by registration of a priority notice, seizure notice, seizure priority notice,

caveat, or lis pendens, if it is satisfied that the registration was or has become

4

unnecessary, order that the registration be cancelled. An application under this

subsection may be made in a suit or summarily under Chapter XXIV of the Civil

Procedure Code.

(3) A cancellation under this section shall be registered by the Registrar in the

prescribed manner.

There is reference made to two land cases, namely case Nos.

4955/ZL & 4956/ZL. Admittedly at the hearing of this appeal it transpired

that Respondent was not a party in case No. 4955/ZL, in which lis pendens

was registered. But it is not denied that Respondent was a party in case No.

4956/ZL. Case No. 4956/ZL was filed by the Public Trustee for ejectment of

the Respondent from a land situated in Nawala. This land is connected to lot

3 in plan No. 220. (As stated by Appellant in the written submission filed in

the District Court). The material placed before this court indicates that the

Respondent had taken up the position in case No. 4956/ZL that the

Respondent and his father was wrongly dispossessed by the Public Trustee

from the said lot 3 in plan 220 on or about 3.7.1975. On that basis

Respondent had by a claim in reconvention in respect of lot 3 prayed for

damages on the footing that he was dispossessed by the Public Trustee.

However after trial the Respondents claim in reconvention had been

dismissed and judgment was entered in favour of the Public Trustee.

5

Judgment entered in favour of the Public Trustee on 24.4.1990. (vide

judgment marked' J3 ').

It was submitted by both counsel that the Respondent had

appealed from the judgment (J3). Appellant further urge that:

5.l0 The Respondent, purported to have appealed against the said Judgment. However,

in the body of the Petition of Appeal, no allegation whatsoever in respect of the

alleged errors committed by the Learned Judge in dismissing his claim in re-

convention in respect of Lot No.3 in Plan 220 has been pleaded. In other words,

though an appeal has been lodged against the Judgment, the Respondent has not

appealed particularly, against the dismissal of his claim in re-convention in

respect of Lot No.3 of Plan No.220.

5.11 No lis pendens has been registered in the said Case No. 4956/ZL, which was

instituted on 10th May 1985 and dismissed on the 24th April 1990.

5.12. However, after Petitioner purchased the property on 3rd September 1997, the

Respondent tendered the purported lis pendens to the Land Registry on 3rd

October 1997.

5.13. By writing dated 26th November 1997 marked "L", the Petitioner called upon the

Respondent to cancel the sad lis pendens and pointed out the case number given

therein was erroneous.

5.14. The Respondent through his Attorney-at-law informed the Petitioner that he had

taken steps to cancel the lis pendens filed with the case reference 4955/ZL and to

tender a fresh lis pendens with case reference 4956/ZL. Up till the time the

Petition was presented to Court, the lis pendens with Case reference No. 4955/ZL

was registered in the Land Registry uncancelled and no new lis pendens with case

reference 4956/ZL has been registered.

Documents 11, J2 & J3 Uudgment in 4956/ZL) gives sufficient

details and the role played by the Defendant in that case who is the present

6

Respondent. The learned District Judge has made some forceful

observations regarding the Respondent. This court would not be in a position

to comment on same, but judgment J3 would certainly assist this court to

arrive at a conclusion as regards the registration of lis pendens.

Let me also consider the order of the Original Court. The

learned District Judge states that the objections of the Respondent is to the

effect that the transferor namely Naomi Leela Elizabeth Perera has no right

or title to the land in dispute and that by case No. 18164/L which had been

filed by Respondent's sister was an action filed to invalidate deed No. 678

executed in favour of the Appellant, which is pending in the District Court. I

must at this point state that either of the counsel appearing in this appeal did

not make any specific reference to Case No. 18164/4 or informed this court

of the outcome of the said case. Trial Judge also considered the position that

the lis pendens was registered in Case No. 4955/ZL where Respondent was

not a party and the Respondent's position that the lis pendance was to be

registered in fact for Case No. 4956/ZL where Respondent is a party. This

mistake was admitted by counsel who appeared before me. There is an

appeal pending from the judgment (J3) delivered in D.C Colombo Case No.

4956/ZL.

7

The trial Judge is of the view that since the appeal in Case No.

4956/ZL, and D.C Colombo 18164/L are still pending the Respondent is

entitled to register the lis pendens. Trial Judge also hold that the Respondent

is not entitled to register a lis pendens as regards case No.4955/ZL

This court is unable to agree with the views expressed by the

learned District Judge. It appears that the learned District Judge has not

considered the provisions contained in Section 33 of the Registration of

Documents Ordinance. Trial Judge has to give his mind as to whether

registration of the lis pendens becomes unnecessary in the circumstances of

this case. The lis pendens registered in case No. 4955/ZL cannot be

permitted to be maintained as the Respondent is not a party in that suit. In

any event mistake is admitted by parties. Nor is the Respondent a party in

Case No. 18164/L (document 'er'). No lis pendens in Case No. 4956/ZL, in

fact has been registered. I agree with the submission of learned Counsel for

Appellant that what is pending in the Court of Appeal is the 'Appeal' and

not the action. 'Lis pendens' means (Latin) A pending action - Oxford

Dictionary of Law 6th Ed. Edited by Elizabeth A. Martin & Jonathan law.

In Cooray V s. Perera 17 NLR 460 ....

8

Per Wood Renton C.J. and De Samiayo A.J. (Perera 1. dissentiente) -

Where in an action an order of abatement is entered under section 402 of the Civil

Procedure Code and the same is subsequently set aside, the action cannot be

regarded as having been lis pendens during the period between the passing of the

order and its being set aside.

Per Pereira J. - If during the period referred to above the action is not to

be regarded as lis pendens, the aim and object of the provision of the section

allowing an order of abetment to be set aside would be defeated.

The doctrine of lis pendens is one common to both English Law

and Roman Dutch Law. Effect of it appears to be that an alienation made by

a party to the suit pendent lite in favour of a person who has notice of the

suit is in operation against rights sought to be enforced in the suit by the

opposite party. Per Shaw A.C.J 3 CWR at 163. In the case in hand lis

pendens applied 7 years after judgment was delivered (J3) and Respondent

claim in reconvention rejected. No action was pending. Appeal from

judgment J3 cannot be construed to be an action. There was no pending

action.

Appellate Court in appeal has the power to substitute its

decision on matters in issue; Court would decide whether the decision under

appeal was 'right' or 'wrong' Appellate powers are condensed in Section

773 of the Civil Procedure Code and Constitutional Provisions.

9

Action as described III Section 6 of the Civil Procedure Coe

reads thus:

Every application to a court for relief or remedy obtainable through the exercise

of the court's power or authority, or otherwise to invite its interference,

constitutes an action.

I would refer to the following cases as regards 'actions'.

Action is not an apt - term to describe insolvency proceedings, the procedure in regard to which is regulated by "Insolvency Ordinance No 7 of 1853 ... The Civil Procedure has nothing to do whatsoever with insolvency matters.

Wither J. In re Abdul Aziz 1 N.L.R 196 ....

Damages cannot be claimed or awarded in a partition case.

Samarasinghe V s. Balahamy 5 NLR 379 ...

It has been approved by Basnayake J. In

Kiribanda Vs. Weerappa Chettiyar 50 N.L.R. 490 ....

An application made to appoint a guardian ad litem in a partition suit and to add as a defendant falls within the meaning of the action defined in section 6 of the civil procedure code.

Raman Chetty Vs. Abdul Razak 7 N.L.R 345

Parents have right to file action against school master to issue school leaving certificate of their child. There was an implied contract between the parties

Amaris Vs. Amarasinghe 21 N.L.R 176

Roman Dutch Law recognizes two classes of action. Rea (in rem) and personal (in personam) In the case of Court held an application made to a court in the course of and incidental to, an action is itself considered an action.

10

Subramaniam Chetty Vs. Soysa 25 N.L.R. 344

It was held by majority of the Supreme Court that an application for a writ of certiorari does not fall within the ambit of the expression of "civil suit or action"

Silverline Bus Co, Ltd. Vs. Kandy Omni Bus Co. Ltd 58 N.L.R 193

In the circumstances of this case the District Court should have

ordered and have the registration cancelled, as it has become unnecessary.

The Respondent does not seem to have an actual vested interest in the

property in dispute. Appellant is a bona fide purchaser who has purchased

the property for valuable consideration. There is also an apparent lapse of

time of about 7 years which the Respondent has not been able to explain in

either court. Therefore this court would set aside the order of the learned

District Judge dated 7.9.1998 (prayer 'a') Appeal allowed with costs in term

of sub paragraphs a, b & c of the Petition of appeal.

Appeal allowed.

(]1~G-~.,

JUDGE OF l'fiECOURT OF APPEAL

I