==== BLOCKS ==== 

I ! % I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No:99/2009

H.C. Trincomalee Case No:HCT /232/07

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED AND

DECIDED ON

Yaseek Ayoob

Accused-Appellant

Hon. The Attorney General

Respondent

SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J. (ACTING P / CAl &

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA, J.

Barana Gayan Perera with Prabha Perera for the Accused-Appellant.

Shanil Kularatne, SSC, for the A.G.

21.02.2014.

SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J. (ACTING PICA)

Accused-appellant is present in Court produced by the

Prison Authorities.

1

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of

his own wife Fawsiya Umma and was sentenced to death. Being

aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence he has appealed

to this Court.

Facts of this case may be briefly summarised as follows:

On the day of the incident around 10.30 in the morning

the wife of the accused-appellant who was living in separation from

her husband came to the house of the accused-appellant in order to

take her belongings. She came with Pakeer Mohideen who is the

Chairman of the Board of Trustee of the Mosque, Mohideen Kachchi

Mohideen, who is the Secretary of the Mosque, the daughter of the

accused-appellant, Ayoob Munahira and the son whose name was

not revealed in the evidence. In compound of the accused-

appellant's house, the deceased woman requested the accused-

appellant to give her belongings. The accused-appellant at this

stage requested the deceased woman to give the outstanding balance

of the loan which had been taken by both of them. The deceased

woman agreed to pay her portion (Rs.25,000 / -). However, over this,

they both argued and quarreled. During the course of the argument

the accused-appellant got angry. It is pertinent to state what

2

witness Mohideen Kachchi Mohideen stated in his evidence on this

point. He has said the following words.

"Suddenly Ayoob got angry. He lost his humanity and he became

like an animal."

He ran inside the house and brought a shovel which is used to make

Musket by Muslim people. The accused-appellant thereafter hit his

wife twice with the said shovel. Then the deceased woman ran to the

neighbouring house of Fareed. The accused-appellant armed with a

knife, went inside Fareed's house and stabbed his wife. He stabbed

only once. The depth of the injury was 2cm. It appears from the

evidence that he was having a ruffled mind over the separation and

the repayment of the loan taken by both of them. When the mind of

a person is ruffled and a problem caused by an individual is

simmering such a person can easily be provoked and loose his power

of self-control by an act of an individual which may sometimes not

provoke a normal man. In such a situation if he causes the death of

the said individual especially, when he was suffering from the loss of

his power of self-control, he is entitled to claim the benefit of the plea

of grave and sudden provocation. But for him to get the benefit of

the plea of grave and sudden provocation, the other person must do

some kind of act towards him. In this case the deceased woman

argued and quarreled with the accused-appellant over the

3

i

rt

outstanding balance of the loan taken by both of them. When I

consider these matters, I feel that he is entitled to the defence of

grave and sudden provocation. In this connection I would like to

consider the judgment of His Lordship H.N.G. Fernando, Chief

Justice in E. Samithamby vs. The Queen (75 NLR 49). In the said

case the accused-appellant killed his wife who was having an affair

with her brother-in-law. The accused-appellant who was ruffled over

this problem, consumed poison, but he did not die. After he

consumed poison, one day the wife of the accused-appellant abused

him and used the following words, "you cursed fellow. You did not

die even after drinking poison." Thereafter the accused-appellant in

that case took a knife and stabbed the wife. These were the facts of

the case of E. Samithamby vs. The Queen. His Lordship Justice

H.N.G. Fernando remarked thus-

"An offender may be said to have been deprived of his

power of self-control by grave and sudden provocation

within the meaning of Exception 1 to section 294 of the

Penal Code even though there was an interval of time

between the giving of the provocation and the time of

the killing, if the evidence shows that, all the time

during the interval, the accused suffered under a loss of

self-control."

4

In said case the accused-appellant was convicted of the

offence of culpable homicide not amounting to murder on the basis

of grave and sudden provocation. When I consider the facts of the

present case as narrated by the prosecution witnesses, I feel that the

accused-appellant has acted when he was suffering from loss of

power of self-control and acted under grave and sudden provocation.

Learned trial Judge has failed to consider this aspect. I therefore

hold that the accused-appellant is not guilty of the murder, but he is

guilty of the offence of culpable homicide not amounting to murder

on the basis of grave and sudden provocation. I therefore set aside

the conviction of murder and substitute a conviction of the offence of

culpable homicide not amounting to murder on the basis of grave

and sudden provocation which is an offence punishable under

Section 297 of the Penal Code. I sentence the accused-appellant to

a term of 16 years rigorous imprisonment and to pay a fine of

Rs.10,OOOj-, carrying a default sentence of 3 months simple

imprisonment. I direct the Prison Authorities to implement the

sentence from the date of the conviction.

5

Learned trial Judge is directed to issue a fresh

committal indicating the conviction and the sentence imposed by

this Court.

Verdict altered.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

TW

6