==== BLOCKS ==== 

1 j I

1 I I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

Court of Appeal

Application No:

CAJPHC/APN 137112

PROVINCIAL HIGH

COURT

(KALUTARA)

WRIT No - 06/2010

An application for Revision and/or

Restitution in intergrumin terms of Article

138( 1) of the Constitution of the Republic

of Sri Lanka against the Judgment/order

dated 3rd March 2011 of the Provincial

High Court of the Western Province

Holden at Kal utara in case No:

WP/HCCA/Kalutaral06/2010.

1. Roslin Gulawita,

No: 32, Weerasekera Place,

Kalutara.

1. Sidda Rupage Rohana Priyantha,

Pandeniya,

Halkandawila,

Payagala.

Peti ti oners.

1

ff

I ! ! j

1. A.M. Arif,

Additional Commissioner of Agrarian

1 Development,

Agrarian Development District Office, I!

IKachchery, IKalutara. IIII!2. Commissioner General of Agrarian

Development,

Agrarian Development Department,

P.O. Box - 537, I1! IColombo - 07. IIIrU.P. Siripsla, ,3. Ii f ,,Additional Commissioner General of [Agrarian Development (Legal)

Agrarian Development Department,

P.O. Box - 537, Colombo - 07.

1~t,.The Registrar of Lands,

~4. rf fLand Registry, iIMatugama.

; f

5. G.P. Simon, ,tPandeniya,

fHalkadawela, IPayagala.

!

2

f ! I -. I ! 6. Hon. Attorney General I Attorney General's Department 1 Colombo 12. I i

~ I I J

Respondents ! i AND I *

j I G.P. Simon, I 1 Pandeniya, I I

Halkadawela, ! I Payagala. I I I I j 1 5th Respondent - Petitioner ! ! I I I

1. Roslin Gulawita,

I No: 32, Weerasekera Place, I Kalutara.

j I {!

t I ~i !

~I

[-2. Sidda Rupage Rohana Priyantha, t

~I fI Pandeniya, J

I !

~Halkandawila, tI Payagala. If!li !

Petitioner - Respondents

i

fI!I3 IIf !!I III

1 I I

Before

I. Additional Commissioner of Agrarian

Development,

Agrarian Development District Office,

Kalugara.

2. Commissioner General of Agrarian

Development,

Agrarian Development Department,

P.O. Box - 537,

Colombo - 07.

3. Additional Commissioner General of

Agrarian Development (Legal)

Agrarian Development Department,

P.O. Box - 537, Colombo - 07.

4. The Registrar of Lands,

Land Registry,

Matugama.

5. Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

Respondent - Respondents

: W.M.M.Malinie Gunarathne, J

: P.R.Walgama, J

4

!l [I

II

fIIII

~ I 1

!

J I

I

Counsel : J.P. Gamage with Wellpili for Appellant.

: Rohana Deshapriya for 1 & 2 Petitioners.

:Suranga Wimalasena, SSC for 1,2,3 & 5 Respondent.

Argued on : 04.03.2015

Decided on: 02.10.2015

CASE-NO-CA (PHC) APN- 137/2012- JUDGMENT- 02.10.2015

P.R.Walgama, J

The instant appeal concerns the effect of the judgment of the

learned High Court Judge, dated 03 rd March 2011. The Petitioner-

Respondents moved court in terms of Article 154 P (4)(b) of the

Constitution, by which application, the Petitioners had urged for

the following reliefs.

The Petitioner- Respondents, made an appiication for a mandate III

the nature of writ of Certiorari against the 3rd Respondent to

quash the decision dated 30th December 2009 marked as PI I ,

further to Issue a mandate in the nature of writ of Prohibition

against the Respondents from taking any steps with regard to the

application made by the 5th Respondent for the cancellation of the

Deed bearing No. 009.

5

!I

1 I I I I ! I I !

!

I I

I

i

The Learned High Court judge having inquired In to the above

application had determined thus;

The 1 st Petitioner Respondent, ~ share of the land in Issue to the

2nd Petitioner Respondent by deed bearing No. 009, dated 18.10

.2008, and both became co owners to the said land.

Pursuant to the above transaction the 5th Respondent- Petitioner

made a request to the 1 st Respondent by ,",Oth .:.Y'0

October 2008 stating that he had worked In the land In Issue

as a tenant cultivator under the 1 st Petitioner Respondent, over 40

years and had requested to cancel the said deed, wherein the 1 st

Petitioner and the 5th Respondent- Petitioner were call for an

inquiry by the 1 st Respondent.

The 1 st Respondent recorded statements from the 1 st and the 2nd

Petitioners respectively. In the said inquiry the Respondent, asserted

that he was the tenant cultivator under the 1 st Petitioner

Respondent nearly for 40 years but the stance of the Petitioners

were, the Respondent Appellant was a labourer. It is salient to

not that according to the extract from the Agricultural Land

Registry, the name of the 5th Respondent does not disclose as

the tenant cultivator.

Thereafter the 1 st Respondent by his letter dated 6th November

2009, dismissed the application of the 5th Respondent Appellant.

Nevertheless under the direction of the 3rd Respondent a fresh

6

InqUIry was held by the 1 st Respondent. Pursuant to the said

InqUIry it was determined that the afore said deed IS not valid,

and has been cancelled.

The Learned High Court Judge, taking In to consideration the

document marked as P6, which is the Agricultural land Register

,was of the view that the contents stated therein is a sufficient

to prove the fact that the Respondent Appellant is not a tenant

cultivator under the 1 st Petitioner Respondent.

The Learned High Court Judge adverted to the Section 2 of the

Agrarian Development Act No. 46 of 2000, which states thus;

2( 1 ) "The owner of an extent of paddy land In respect of

which there IS a tenant cultivator, who intends to sell such

extent, shall in the first instant make an offer to sell such extent

to the tenant cultivator. Such offer shall be made to the tenant

cultivator by communication in writing, and send by registered

post, stating the price at which he offers to sell such extent. The

owner shall cause a copy of such communication to be sent by

registered post to the Agrarian Development Council within whose

area of authority such paddy land is situated."

7

\

I

\

1 I

It IS viewed from the documents herein tendered that the 15t

Respondent has dismissed the application of the 5th Respondent,

by his order dated 06.11.2009, which is marked as PI0.

The above dismissal was on the basis that the 5th Respondent

Appellant was not a tenant cultivator, and the 15t Respondent was

of the view that inquiry in terms of Section 2 does not warrant

as claimed by the Respondent Appellant.

Thereafter the 3rd Respondent sent has informed the 15t

Respondent by letter dated 30.12.2009, marked Pll, with copies

to the Petitioners to call for another inquiry in terms of Section

2 of the said Act.

Subsequently, pursuant to the said directive the I5t Respondent had

cancelled the above mentioned purported deed marked PI, which

act the Learned High Court Judge has construed as a violation

of Rules of Natural Justice.

The 5th Respondent Appellant has produced documents marked VI

to V3 in order to prove that he was a tenant cultivator of the

land In Issue. But the Learned High Court Judge was of the

VIew, that those documents do not establish hiC' r; n-htC' 2,S '1 ..l ...... v It...lf:,J. ... '''oJ ~

tenant cultivator. It IS salient to note that the 5th Respondent has

never paid the rental to the Petitioner Respondent.

8

The Learned High Court Judge has adverted to the document

marked P9. As per said letter, the 15t Respondent was compelled

to hold an InqUIry in terms of Section 2 of the

only to decide the rights of a tenant cultivator.

For the ongOIng reasons the Learned High Court Judge has

issued a writ of certiorari against the 3rd Respondent to quashed

his decision dated 30.12.2009 and had quashed the decision of

the 15t Respondent dated 14.07.2010 accordingly.

Further a writ of prohibition has been issued against the

Respondents from taking any step to abrogate the decision stated

In the document marked in PI O.

It is contended by the counsel for the 15t ,2nd ,3 rd respondents, that

the directive given by the 3rd Respondent to the 15t Respondent

to call the parties for a fresh inquiry, in terms of Section 2 of

the said Act, is ultra vires, since the matter in dispute has been

decided by the 15t Respondent by document marked PlO.

In the above setting it IS stated that the 15t Respondent has no

authority to change or vary his decision, the legality of his

decision could be reviewed, only by a competent court.

The Petitioner- Respondents contend that the 5th Respondent

Petitioner has not established any valid exceptional circumstances

9

t t

\

t I

for this court to exerCIse its revIsIOnary jurisdiction III terms of

Article 140 of the Constitution.

The Petitioner-Respondents had also stressed the fact that the 5th

Respondent -Petitioner IS guilty of latches In, invoking the

Revisionary jurisdiction of this court. Any how this Court is not

inclined, to treat the said objection as a fundamental matter which

decides the maintainability of this case.

Hence in the above setting I am of the VIew that the application

of the 5th Respondent- Petitioner's application is devoid of merits

and should stand rejected.

Petition is dismissed accordingly. We order no costs.

JUDGE OF TIlE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M.Malinie Gunarathne, J

I agree,

JUDGE OF TIlE COURT OF APPEAL

10

i f

r t i i I(

r ! • , i