==== BLOCKS ==== 

f

I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

C.A No 77/2014

In the matter of an application for the

grants of writs Certiorari, Mandamus,

Quo Waranto and Prohibition under

terms of Article 140 of the Constitution.

1. Abdul Rahuman Lebbe Uduma Lebbe,

No. 24,

Rifaipura, Thambaala,

Polonnaruwa.

2. Wijeyakoon Mudiyanselage Susantha

Priyabandara,

No. 51, BOP 316,

Thalpotha,

Polonnaruwa.

3. AnuraRajamanthri,

No. 181, BOP 316,

Thalpotha,

Polonnaruwa.

Petitioners

-Vs-

1

1. The Pradeshiya Sabha Lankapura,

Lankapura.

2. K.M. KamalawathieManike,

Secretary,

The Pradeshiya Sabha of Lankapura.

3. W.T.A. Manel,

The Commissioner of LocalGovernment,

Department of Local Government

(North Central Province)

Provincial Council Complex,

Dharmapala Mawatha,

Anuradhapura.

4. Returning Officer,

The Returning Officer of

Lankapura Pradeshiya Sabha,

Lankapura.

5. The Commissioner of Elections,

The Secretariat of the Commissioner of

Elections,

No. 395,

2

I

t

(

ft

II

(I

• Old Kotte Road,

Rajagiriya.

6. Ho. SusilPremajayantha, MP

The General Secretary of the United

People's Freedom Alliance,

No. 301,

T.B. Jaya Mawatha,

Colombo 10.

7. The Secretariat of the Commissioner of

Local Government (Polonnaruwa)

8. A.A.G.M.S. Alutwatte, Chairman

9. S.A. Bandula Samansiri, Vice Chairman

10. W.P. SarathWijesinghe, Member

11. K. Wijetunga, Member

12. K.M. Sunil Shantha, Member

13. W.G.S. Sarath Ananda, Member

14. W. NishshankaWeerasena, Member

15. Mustapha Nazardheen, Member

3

t

Before

Counsel

16. A.L.A. Latheef, Member

The Pradeshiya Sabha of Lankapura

08th to 16th Respondents

17. S.M. RanjithSamarakoon,

Chief Minister,

Chief Ministry,

North Central Province.

18. The Hon, Attorney General,

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

Respondents.

Vijith K. Malalgoda, PC. J. (PICA) &

A.H.M.D. Nawaz, J.

Senani Dayaratne for the Petitioners

Upali Jayamanna for the 1st and 2nd

Respondents

Harendra Rajapakshe for the 3rd and lih

Respondents

4

I

I

I

f I l

Argued & Delivered on

A.H.M.D.Nawaz J,

Kushan de Alwis PC with A.Tennekone

and Chamath Fernando for 6th

Respondent

Nerin Pulle DSG for 4th, 5th and 18th

Respondents

Faiszer Mustapha PC with Pulasthi

Rupasinghe for the 8th Respondent

Saman Galappathi for the 9th

Respondent

07.10.2014

ORDER ON INTERIM RELIEF

This application revolves around the Lankapura Pradeshiya Sabah and

the Petitioners aver that they are in the main application seeking to

impugn, inter alia, the actions/inactions of anyone or more of the

Respondents, and in particular the 8th Respondent Chairman for failing to

submit the budget for 2014, for a second time, after the initial

presentation of the budget was defeated by one vote in the Lankapura

Pradeshiya Sabha and cogent reasons for the defeat of the budget were

discussed, and recommendations were submitted by the Members of the

5

said Pradeshiya Sabha. The Petitioners have also prayed for interim relief

at prayers (m) and (n) of the Petition and the prayers are for the

following-

(a) An interim order suspending the decision that the Sth

Respondent is not deemed to have resigned from the post of

Chairman

(b) An interim order, directing the 1ih Respondent (the Chief

Minister of North Central Province) to suspend the Sth

Respondent from the post of Chairman of the Lankapura

Pradeshiya Sabha, inter alia, under and in terms of section lS5 of

the Pradeshiya Sabha Act.

In contra distinction to this claim of the Petitioners, the Sth Respondent-

the Chairman of the Lankapura Pradeshiya Sabah has filed his limited

objections disputing several of the averments contained in the Petition

and the Counsel for the Sth Respondent, Faiszer Mustapha PC has raised

preliminary objections to the grant of interim relief on the premise that

these interim reliefs are incapable of being granted as their grant would

be quite contrary to the provisions of the the Pradeshiya Sabha Act read

with the Local Authorities (Special Provisions) Act No. 21 of 2012.

Both in the contentions of the Counsel for the Petitioners Mr. Senany

Jayaratne as well as those of Mr. Faiszer Mustapha PC, the Counsel for

the Sth Respondent, loomed large the application of two very salient

provisions namely-the proviso to Section 169 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act

6

I

1IIIIII

1 I I I ,

I f .1

• which was introduced as an amendment to the Local Authorities (Special

Provisions) Act No. 21 of 2012 and Section 185 of the Pradeshiya Sabha

Act.

The introduction of the proviso by the Local Authorities (Special

Provisions) Act No. 21 of 2012 to Section 169 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act

has the following effect.

If the Council (sic) modifies or rejects all or any items inany budget or

supplementary budget or adds any item thereto and ifthe Chairman does

not agree to such decision of the Council, he shall resubmit the said

budget to the Council for furtherconsideration.

Where a budget or supplementary budget isnot passed by the Council

within two weeks after it isresubmitted for the second time, the

Chairman shall be deemed to have resigned from the office of Chairman

at theend of the said period of two weeks.

In terms of the proviso whose seeming effect is referred to above, the

condition precedent to the deeming provision coming into operation is

the duty to re-submit the said budget when there has been disagreement

to the first submission and only if the budget submitted a second time is

not passed within two weeks, the Chairman is deemed to have resigned

from office.

7

• In fact the main prayer (d) of the Petition invokes the jurisdiction of this

Court to quash a decision if any that the said Chairman (8th Respondent)

is not deemed to have resigned from office.

On a comparative perusal of the main relief (d) and the interim relief (m)

it is crystal clear that both reliefs are identical to each other. In both these

prayers which are not mutually exclusive, a decision to the effect that the

chairman is not deemed to have resigned from office is referred to and

until this Court examines that decision which would dispose of the

substantive rights and competing claims, this Court is of the opinion that

it need not prejudge the merits of these claims at this stage by

prematurely granting at this stage a relief which mayor may not be

granted at the end of the hearing upon a proper determination of the

main issues. The Court observes that the Petitioners pray for an interim

relief which is the same as the final relief.

Adverting to second interim relief at (n) which has been prayed for, the

Court observes that the said relief requires this Court to direct the 1ih

Respondent (the Chief Minister of the North Central Province) to suspend

the 8th Respondent (the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha in terms of

Section 185 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act.

At the hearing into this application for interim relief it has been brought

to the notice of Court that a process under Section 185 of the Pradeshiya

Sabha Act has been initiated and it is in progress. In the circumstances it

would be premature for this Court to give any interim relief on this score

and the Court bears in mind that it has to be circumspect n regard to the

remit of its powers to intervene in an ongoing statutory process.

8

• In the circumstances the Court is disinclined to grant the interim reliefs

sought and the Court grants the Respondents time to file objections

before this matter is set down for hearing.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Vijith K. Malalgoda, Pc. J. (PICA)

I agree

PRESID o THE COURT OF APPEAL

9