==== BLOCKS ==== 

..

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. Case No. 296/1999(F)

D.C.(Kegalle)

Case No. 2963/land

BEFORE

COUNSEL

In the matter of an appeal under Sec.

755(3) of the Civil Procedure Code.

1. Katlandage Podineris

2. G. Selenchina of Neluwakkakna,

Dedugla.

Defendants - Appellants

Vs.

1. Dona Emalyn Nona Liyange of

Nilwakka, Kegalle and 8 others.

Plaintiff - Respondents

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J

Sunil Abeyratne with

S.P.P. Samaranayake for the

Defendant Appellant.

1

I I ! I

! I

I I

ARGUED ON 21.11.2014

DECIDED ON 24.07.2015

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J

The Plaintiff Respondents had instituted this Action to get the ownership

declared of the amalgamated lands named, "Ritigaha Hena" and "Thittha

Atagahamula". The extent of the land given in the schedule is 10 "Pelas" of

paddy. The court commissioner who has surveyed the land on the commission

issued to him has submitted the Plan No. 549 dated 18.01.1987. According to

the said Plan, the extent of the subject matter is 3 roods and 28.8 perches. It

has been averred in the Plaint that the 1st Plaintiff as the widow of the person

who owned this land in 1934 and 2nd to 9th Plaintiffs as children became

entitled to the property in dispute. The course of action, according to the

plaint is the Defendant's denial of the Plaintiffs' title and disputes their rights.

2

I j

I

I

The 1st Defendant, in his answer, has stated that the land depicted in the plan

No. 549 had been given to the 1st Defendant's father for cultivation by the

original owner of this land. He has further stated that his father Singho

developed the land and possessed it for more than 25 years till his demise. The

1st Defendant claimed prescriptive title to the property on the basis that he

and his predecessors had possessed the property as against the Plaintiffs and

others for more than 25 years.

The learned trial judge has come to the conclusion that Singho had looked

after the property on leave and license of Karunanayaka.

The counsel for the Appellant contented that the learned trial judge has not

taken the evidence of the Appellant into consideration which stated his father

Singho cultivated the rubber plantation and commenced tapping in 1970 as his

own property. On perusal of the evidence of the 1st Plaintiff it appears that she

had no knowledge about the nature of the possession of Singho. She has

admitted that Singho had obtained the rubber cultivation permit in his name.

She has further admitted that she did not take any step to prevent the 1st

Defendant from constructing a house in this land.

According to the Surveyor's report, this land has been planted with cloves,

coffee, coconut and rubber. There are several jack trees and other mixed

plantations.

3

The learned District Judge has not addressed the issue that on what basis

Singho had developed this land and whether the Plaintiffs' case has been

brought on a proper course of action. The opinion of this court is that the

conclusion of the District Judge deciding that Singho had looked after the

property in dispute right though out with the consent and the licence of

Karunanayaka and his successors is not a considered decision. Therefore, this

court sets aside the judgment of the learned District Judge and dismisses the

Plaintiffs' case without cost.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

4