==== BLOCKS ==== 

I !

I ! ! ! ! I ! I ! I 1

I } 1 1 I I ! I 1

~

~ t

\

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

M. P. Kelum Sisira Kumara

ACCUSED-APPElLANT

C.A No. OS/2011

H.C. Anuradhapura 217/2005

BEFORE:

COUNSEl:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Sunil Rajapaksa J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDENT

A. Meddegoda for the Accused-Appellant

Chethiya Gunasekera D.S.G. for the Complainant-Respondent

17.07.2014

23.09.2014

1

2

GOONERATNE J.

The Accused-Appellant was indicted for grave sexual abuse of one H.

Shamalee Sandamalee on or about 01.12.2003, an offence punishable under

Section 365 (b)(2)(b) of the Penal Code as amended. The evidence reveal that

the victim was 13 years old when she gave evidence in the High Court and her

date of birth as recorded (folio 36) was 10.12.1994. Therefore she would have

been about 8 years old when she was subject to sexual abuse and harassment.

The Accused-Appellant was convicted for the above offence and sentenced for

10 years rigorous imprisonment and fined Rs. 5000/- which carries a default

sentence of 2 X years imprisonment.

The prosecution version as revealed by evidence was that the victim

identified the Accused who is called 'Sudumama' who did something to her?

The victim at the beginning of her examination-in-chief answered the above

question as 'yes'. The victim resided in a house which had collapsed and her

father had taken her and the other children to the house of the Accused.

Victim's mother was not in the island during the relevant period. The father

3

had left the children at the house of the Accused during the period/time of

offence and had gone for work. Victim had been sleeping inside the house

with her brother and the Accused had come to the place they were sleeping

and had taken the child out of the house, and removed her underpants. It is

described in her own words as ~ ®)@» ~@coD ~ ~ @)em ~

~~). Sexual act had been performed twice according to evidence.

(morning and evening) Although the victim had not replied correctly or with

certainty of the alleged sexual act, the several questions put to her by the

prosecuting counsel indicates at folios 43/44 of the brief that the incident that

happened in the afternoon, when she was on bed. There is evidence (40) that

the Accused had given her some toffees and sent the brother out, to bring

some fishing-hook. (m@ (!tm~) It is recorded as Ot, 00 ~ ®D C~

®~ 00) ~) (40). The Accused in the way the victim could explain was on

top of her, as explained frl;m CID. Accused had been in this position as told by

her for 20 minutes. At folios 48/49 the victim described the act of sex in the

best possible way in which she could explain. It is suggestive of unnatural sex

or anal sex and the position she was kept whilst the act of sex had been

performed (48/49).

Ii[;

~ r!f I

fI !

! I

~.!I1 il

~If! !,iII{

I

ft

~II I

(f ! ! !I

4

The learned counsel for the Accused-Appellant, inter alia urged the

following points.

(a) Uncorroborated medical evidence.

(b) Alleged position of sexual act as described by victim is an impossibility.

(c) Learned High Court Judge failed to consider

(1) Inconsistent position taken by the victim and vague description of

alleged sexual act.

(2) Absolute impossibility of sexual act as in (b) above.

(3) Failure to consider the medical report

(4) Alibi not considered and misdirected in law.

(5) Dock statement not analysed correctly.

Learned Deputy Solicitor General submitted to this court that the

victim was abused and harassed as above on 2 occasions by the Accused. He

also drew the attention of this court, mainly to the fact that the position of the

defence had never been suggested or put to the prosecution witnesses (60 &

61). It was also suggested to this court that the evidence of Premawathie (84,

,I1!I! I

t

!

f t

t1I

5

86 & 87) gives the background facts to this court and that the children along

with victim's brother and sisters were looked after by her for 13 days and

corroborated even by hearsay evidence about the complain made by the

victim to her as regards the incident.

The medical report suggest that the hymen was intact and opinion

stated therein states no evidence of vaginal penetration. Examination done on

23.03.2004. There is no doubt a delay, in the examination of this child who was

subject to abuse. The offence is one of grave sexual abuse, which does not

amount to rape. As such penetration has to be ruled out, and the offence is

not rape. As long as the ingredients of this offence (section 365(b)2(b)) are

established the medical report cannot be of much assistance. Further the

delay in examination of the victim may be another fact which matters and

medical evidence would diminish in value. Notwithstanding above, I would

deal with the evidence of the victim. In all these type of cases the age of the

victim matters to a very great extent. This was a very small child who was

abused and harassed as above. She could not at times provide direct answers

to some direct relevant question as regards the sexual act. However constant

[ IIIIIItI ~

~~ f ,

!II!

t: I ff II

[II

6

probing of the child victim by the prosecution led her gradually to explain the

act of child abuse which amount to grave sexual abuse. The details of the act

testified by the child in her own way and language is more than sufficient to

secure a conviction, along with other evidence led on behalf of the

prosecution. This court need not collect and refer to all other evidence to

prove guilt, which the learned High Court Judge has considered in the

Judgment of the High Court.

It is essential for a court of law in a case of this nature to be mindful

of all the circumstances and other various aspects such as age of child, mental

and physical condition, power of explanation etc. Furthermore a child of

tender years would be averse to court surroundings and proceedings. He or

she may prefer to avoid such surroundings, and wait for the first available

opportunity to leave the court room. One must also bear in mind the abuse

that the child had to undergo as in the case in hand. This may have a far

reaching effect on her mental condition in her future years to follow, at least

up to adulthood and may be even thereafter. In all these circumstances I hold

that it is very much safe to act upon her evidence and I will not fault the

learned High Court Judge to that extent. Before I conclude I would prefer to

7

draw a favourable view of the prosecution case and I fortify my views from the

famous Indian case of Bhoginbhai Hirjibhai Vs State of Gujarat (1983) AIR. SC

753 at 755. Indian Supreme Court held thus:

"By and large a witness cannot be expected to possess a photographic memory and to recall

the details of an incident. It is not as if a video tape is replayed on the mental screen.

Ordinarily a witness cannot be expected to recall accurately the sequence of events which

take place in rapid succession or in a short time span. A witness is liable to get confused, or

mixed-up when interrogate later on. The powers of observation differ from person to

person. What one may notice, another may not. An object or movement might emboss its

image on one person's mind, whereas it might go unnoticed on the part of another."

The defence case has been correctly viewed by the trial Judge. The

alibi has not been suggested to the prosecution, or elicited, when the

prosecution witnesses were giving evidence. I do agree with the defence that

Section 126A of the Code would not have an application as regards the case in

hand.

The views expressed by the trial Judge regarding the defence case

contained in the dock statement, cannot be rejected by this court. There is

enough and more evidence placed by the prosecution to prove the

prosecution case beyond reasonable doubt. If one collects all the items of

evidence led on behalf of the prosecution, the case of the prosecution is well

1! ! ! !I

!I

~ II(

I II; , !

r

8

established. Trial Judge's views that the defence case does not create a

reasonable doubt in the prosecution case cannot be faulted. In all the above

facts and circumstances we affirm the conviction and sentence and dismiss

this appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

N.S. Rajapaksa J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL