==== BLOCKS ==== 

I l ,

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

Demuni Punchi Singho,

Pahalawatte,

Bopagoda,

Rathgama.

Plaintiff

Vs.

Court of Appeal Case No:CA 976/97(F)

DC Case No: 9421/P Sammu Gunasena

Bopagoda,

Rathgama.

Defendant

AND BETWEEN

Sammu Gunasena

Bopagoda,

Rathgama.

Defendant - Petitioner - Appellant

1

BEFORE

Vs.

1. Demuni Punchi Singho{deceased),

Pahalawatte,

Bopagoda,

Rathgama.

lA. Demuni Kithsiri

lB. Demuni Kusalawathi

lC. Demuni Chandrani

All of Pahalawatte, Bopagoda,

Rathgama.

Substituted Plaintiff - Respondent-

Respondents

2. Sammu Patin de Silva (deceased)

Bopegoda, Rathgama

2A. Sammu Sriyani De Silva

Bopagoda, Rathgama.

And other Defendant -Respondant-

Respondats

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J

2

I! ,

'~

COUNSEL

Argued On

Decided On

P.W.D.C • .Iayathilake .I.

Chula Bandara with Lashani de Silva for

the Defendant Appellant

18.09.2014

25.09.2014

Sammu Gunasena, the Defendant, Petitioner, Appellant has made an application in

terms of Sec. 189(1) of the Civil Procedure Code moving to rectify an arithmetical

error in the judgement of the partition case No: 9421/P in the District Court of Galle.

He has stated in his petition, although the Plaintiff in his evidence had stated that the

Defendant Appellant was entitled to an undivided share of 882/15120 the actual

amount that should have devolved should have been 3064/15120. After an inquiry

held on this application, the learned District Judge has decided that the application of

the appellant is belated, as it has been made after 3 years from the pronouncement

3

I!1

II,

II

tItL

ffI I

fI lI

tI: P(,!jI,

of the judgement. He has further stated in his order, however the amendment

prayed for does not fall into Sec. 189 of the Civil Procedure Code. The reason given

by the learned judge for arriving at this conclusion is that the judgement of the

learned District Judge has been given after due consideration of the documents and

evidence led in the trial. Though the learned judge has come to this conclusion on

the said reason when examining the trial proceedings relevant to the particular

judgement it is obvious that judgement and the schedule of shares have been given

directly on the evidence of the Plaintiff as the evidence of the Plaintiff had been led

without contest. However practically, it is impossible that a judgement is delivered in

the open court examining the evidence and documents immediately after the

evidence is led. The learned judge may have trusted the evidence of the Plaintiff as

the other parties were also present and represented. Unfortunately even the District

Judge who had made the order in respect of the application made under Sec. 189 too

has not bothered to examine the evidence and the documents of the Plaintiff to

ascertain whether there is a merit in the application of the appellant. Instead, the

learned judge has given his mind to the fact that the said application had been made

even after the final partition has been done.

Appellant's undivided share has been given as a fraction, not as an extent. Therefore

he might have actually come to know about the extent of his share that has been

allotted to him after the final partition. So that the court should have investigated

4

fI

III

f!iIIt I!i Itt; !

the complaint of the appellant. This court is of the view that it is the duty of the

Plaintiff to assist court to rectify the error that had occurred in computating

undivided shares of the co-owners. According to the schedule of the deed marked as

1 Vi the undivided share of one fifth plus one three hundred and seventy eighth has

been transferred by the vendors of the said deed to the vendee that is the Defendant

Appellant. This fact has been testified by the Plaintiff Respondent in the trial.

Therefore, this Court direct to take necessary steps to bring to the notice of

substitute Plaintiffs to submit the schedule of shares calculated in accordance with

the evidence and the documents led in the trial. It shall be the duty of the District

Judge to investigate the shares according to the evidence and the documents and to

make necessary amendments of the judgement and the interlocutory decree

accordingly.

It is the Defendant Appellant who should take initial steps to issue notice on the

substituted Plaintiffs.

Order set aside.

I

t

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

5

l I!t

I,

fi

~ I

i~t II

I

1

~!I

I!I

j