==== BLOCKS ==== 

,

'I I 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 166/2009 (Writ)

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Ani! Gooneratne J. &

Deepali Wijesundera J.

Sonic Steel Industries (Private) Limited

No. 34, Abdul Jabbar Mawatha,

Colombo 12.

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. Prof. G. L. Peiris

Hon. Minister of Export Development &

International Trade,

Ministry of Export Development & International

Trade,

Rakshana Mandiraya,

21, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 12.

And 06 others

RESPONDENTS

K. Deekiriwewa for the Petitioner

F. Jameel D.S.G., for Respondents

31.05.2013

10.10.2013

2

GOONERATNE J.

The Petitioner company has sought a Writs of Certiorari, Prohibition

and Mandamus. The prayer relating to Mandamus had been prepared in very

wide terms, and the issue really pertains to payment of cess. According to the

Petitioner without there being statutorily authority, cess, had been collected, and

the prayer pertaining to Mandamus contains alternative relief. Certiorari is sought

to quash Gazette Notification 'X4' & 'xs' (dated 31.01.2009 & 6.11.2008

respectively). The learned Deputy Solicitor General who appeared for the

Respondent at the very outset informed this court that prayer If' & 'g' relating to

the Writ of Prohibition is very vague. This court observes that very many relief

prayed for by the Petitioner company, contained in the petition is prolix and the

remedy sought pertains to orders made in the years 2008 & 2009.

Petitioner company as pleaded is engaged in the importation of steel

and iron rods/coils. According to the submissions of learned counsel for the

Petitioner and the material contained in the petition the grievance of the

Petitioner mainly seems to be that money collected under cess order need to be

remitted directly to the Export Development Fund established under the Export

3

Development Board Act No. 40 of 1979. However it had not happened in that

manner but amount on cess diverted to the treasury violating statutory provisions

and constitutional provisions. Petitioner argues that cess money should accrue to

the export development Board Cess Fund and not to Government revenue, as

proceeds had to be utilized to meet the costs of Export Development.

The counsel for the Petitioner emphasis on Section 14 of the above

Act. Section 14 reads thus:

14 (1) There shall be charged, levied and paid a cess at such rates as may be determined

by the Minister from time to time, with the concurrence of the Minister in charge of the

subject of Finance, by Order published in the Gazette, on such imports and exoorts

specified in the Order.

(2) The amount of cess imposed under this section may be varied or rescinded by a like

Order.

(3) Every Order made by the Minister under this section shall come into force on the

date of its publication in the Gazette or on such later date as may be specified therein,

and shall be brought before Parliament for approval within four months of the date of

its publication. Any such Order which is not so approved shall be deemed to be revoked

as from the date of its disapproval, but without prejudice to the validity of anything

previously done thereunder.

(4) This section shall have effect as though it formed part of the Customs Ordinance, and

the provisions of that Ordinance shall apply accordingly.

(5) The proceeds of the cess recovered under this section shall be paid monthly by the

Principal Collector of Customs to the credit of the Fund.

(6) The cess imposed under this section shall be in addition to any import duty or export

duty or any other cess levied under any other written law.

,

\

If

4

Petitioner argues that Section 14(1) of the Act where the power to

impose cess conferred on the Minister is to be done only on certain specified

items, in order to raise funds for Export Development only. Further it has to be

credited to the fund. Petitioner blames the 6th Respondent and state there is a

total deviation from the above statutory scheme and imposed a totally

unwarranted amount on the Petitioner. Petitioner describes this as a manifest

error. I would also for purpose of clarity incorporate paragraphs 7 & 8 of the

petition since the Petitioner relies on same to a great extent. It reads as follows:

Further the Customs Department by misconstruing the Order and

also by deviating from the statutory provisions had collected certain unwarranted

{cess' amount and germane to that collection had collected unwarranted VAT

amount and unwarranted Nation Building Tax {NBT' amount also and as such

Commissioner General of Inland Revenue is named as the th respondent in this

case.

Petitioner states that the petitioner is one of the leading and lal"gest

importers of steel and iron roads and coils into the Country. Further it states that

it is involved in retail as well as wholesale business of steel and iron rods and coils

and as such is a major player in this commodity market. It is also pertinent to

state that until the publication of the impugned Gazetted Order bearing Gazette

No. 1586/26 dated 30.01.2009 the items namely steel and iron rods and coils

imported under the HS heading 72.07, 72.08, 72.09, 72.10, 72.11, 72.12, 72.13,

72.14, 72.15, 72.16, 72.17, 72.18, 72.19, 72.20, 72.21, 72.22, 72.24, 72.25, 72.26,

72.28, and 72.29 were not subjected to a {Cess' levy. A copy of the immediately

f

i

1 1 I I I

5

preceding Gazetted Order bearing Gazette No. 1574/7 dated 06.11.2008 marked

as "X5" is annexed and pleaded as part and parcel of this petition.

Petitioner further argues that the Minister's order has not made, to

charge or levy a cess only on a unit rate. In other words there is no order to

charge, levy and pay cess on the basis of the unit rate. In order to follow the

argument of the Petitioner the following from the pleadings are noted.

The Hon. Minister's IOrder' very clearly stipulates that "a Cess shall be

charged, levied and paid on all goods enumerated in Column III of the

Schedule I hereto at rates specified in the corresponding entry in Column IV

in the same Schedule hereto on the aggregate of a sum equivalent to their

value for customs duty purposes at the time of importation and a sum

equivalent to ten per centum of such value, provided however, that;"

Therefore it is abundantly clear that whenever there is an ad valorem rate

(indicates a percentage) specified in any item enumerated in Column III

then the cess can be computed according to the Order and could and has to

be paid or levied according to the Order.

But as in the case of Palm oil (HS Heading 15.11 or HS code 1511.90.20)

wherein only an unit rate of Rs. 6/- per k.g is given in the Column IV or as in

the case of steel rods and coils (HS Heading 72.13 or HS code 7213.91)

wherein only an unit rate of Rs. 10/- per k.g is given in the Column IV Cess

cannot be computed on the basis of the aggregate of a sum equivalent to

their value for customs duty purposes at the time of importation and a sum

\

fi,

I I

JI

I

i I I I j I

l ! 1

6

equivalent to ten per centum of such value as this basis or the method of

computation cannot co-exist with an unit rate and its alien to the

application of unit rate.

In other words on the one hand there is no "Order" to payor levy on the

unit rate and on the other hand there is no ad valorem rate specified in

Column IV corresponding to the manner or the basis of computation

stipulated in 'Order' itself.

The Petitioner complains mainly on the statutory aspect i.e order

made not to collect funds for the fund created under Section 13(1) of the enabling

Act but to generate funds to the Treasury which is not a prescribed purpose of the

Act. The impugned order violates Article 76(3) of the Constitution. In those

circumstances the Petitioner states that the total cess amount imposed on the

Petitioner company should be released to the Petitioner

The Respondents in their objections have specifically pleaded the

following as matters of law by way of preliminary objections.

(a) The Petitioner is guilty of lashes in regard to the Gazette Notification dated

06.11.2008 marked XS with the petition;

(b) In any event, the Order contained in XS was rescinded by the Order

contained in Gazette Notification dated 30.01.2009 marked X4 and thus

this application is futile.

I

f

I;I

~ r 1i l

I t

L

I

1 I

7

(c) The matter put in issue by the Petitioner, involves fiscal policy of the State

and is not amenable to judicial review.

(d) The Petitioner has no locus standi to have and maintain this application.

(e) In any event the act of remitting the money collected as Cess to the

Consolidated Fund, is in accordance with the law.

We have perused the objections of the Respondents and the affidavit of the

1st Respondent Minister as well as of the 4th Respondent. The Minister concerned

emphasis the government policy to remit the amounts collected on cess

payments with the Treasury, and refer to two circulars in this regard. As such the

grievance of the Petitioner is nullified by Government policy adopted in circulars

of 1ih July 2005 & 24th of April 2007 (6R1 & 6R2). As such it is not a policy in

breach of any law, and monies were deposited periodically in the Treasury. It is no

secret that the Director General of Customs collected cess as required by Gazette

Notification No. 1586/26 of 30.01.2009. We don't think there was a breach of law

in the manner pleaded by the Petitioner, but simply an arrangement within the

Government, which does not give rise to any illegality.

It is the fiscal policy of the Government and a Court of Law should

not disturb such a policy in the interest of Justice. Such a fiscal policy of the state

would not be amenable to the writ jurisdiction of this court. Further Parliament

8

has full control over public finance. Even otherwise the fiscal policy need not be

disturbed, by a writ application.

On the other hand it appears to this court that exercise of power on

the documents sought to be quashed by certiorari would be futile in the

circumstances of this case. As pleaded by the Respondent's order X5 was

rescinded by order X4 and as such the application of the petitioner is futile The

Writ of Certiorari and Mandamus has been refused by the Court of Appeal on

numerous occasions. A writ will not issue where it would be vexatious or futile.

(1958) 61 NLR 491, 496. Both X4 & X5 were issued more than 5 years ago.

Certiorari will not be issued to quash a particular exercise of power if it be futile

to do because it is no more operational or it has had its effect (pg. 988 - Principle

of Administration Law 3rd Edition by Sunil F. Coo ray.

In all the above circumstances of this case we are not inclined to

grant the relief prayed for by the Petitioner. As such this application is dismissed

without costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Deepali Wijesundera J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

\ \ I

1 1

f I,

i