==== BLOCKS ==== 

f

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A 257/1997 (F) D.C. Kurunegala 4009/L

Aluth Muhandiramge Somawathie (Deceased)

PLAINTIFF

Amarapathy Mudiyanselage Podisingho (Deceased)

And

1. (A) Sumanasiri Harischandra 1. (B) Susila Muthulatha 1. (C) Chithra Dharmalatha 1. (D) Liliat Chandrawathie 1. (E) Piyaseli Sarathchandra 1. (F) Jayasiri Nimalchandra 1. (G) M. Aratchilage Ariyasiri 1. (H) Bayani F onseka 1. (I) Pradeep Premachandra 1. (J) Dilhara F onseka

SUBSTITUTED PLAINTIFFS

Vs

1. (A) Lucy Nona 1. (B) Amarapathy M. Senarathne 1. (C) A.M. Indra Amarapathy 1. (D) A.M.M.J. Amarapathy 1. (E) A. M. Jane Nona Amarapathy 1. (F) A.M. Ashoka Chandrawathie 1. (G) A.M. Wijeratne 1. (H) A.M. Premawathie 1. (I) J.T. Somawathie

1. (J) A.M. Ramyalatha Sriyakantha 1. (K) A.M. Ranjit Senaratne 1. (L) A.M. Pushparani Chaminda 1. (M) A.M. Priyantha Damayanthi 1. (N) A.M. Samangtha Amarapathy 1. (0) A.M. Dhammika Amarapathy 1. (P) A.M. Wijesiri Amarapathy

SUBSTITUTED-DEFENDANTS

BETWEEN

Amarapathy Mudiyanselage M.J. Amarapathy of 1hala Keppitiwalana, Alawwa.

1. D. SUBSTITUTED-DEFENDANT-APPELLANT

Vs.

1. (A) Sumanasiri Harischandra 1. (B) Susila Muthulatha 1. (C) Chithra Dharmalatha 1. (D) Liliat Chandrawathie 1. (E) Piyaseli Sarathchandra 1. (F) Jayasiri Nimalchandra 1. (G) M. Aratchilage Ariyasiri 1. (H) Bayani Fonseka 1. (I) Pradeep Premachandra 1. (J) Dilhara F onseka

All of Keppitiwalana, Alawwa.

SUBSTITUTED-PLAINTIFF RESPONDENTS

2

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

1. (A) Lucy Nona 1. (8) Amarapathy M. Senarathne 1. (C) A.M Indra Amarapathy 1. (D) A.M.MJ. Amarapathy 1. (E) A. M. Jane Nona Amarapathy 1. (F) A.M. Ashoka Chandrawathie 1. (G) A.M. Wijeratne 1. (H) A.M. Premawathie 1. (I) J. T. Somawathie 1. (J) A.M. Ramyalatha Sriyakantha 1. (K) A.M. Ranjit Senaratne 1. (L) A.M. Pushparani Chaminda 1. (M) A.M. Priyantha Damayanthi 1. (N) A.M. Samangtha Amarapathy 1. (0) A.M. Dhammika Amarapathy 1. (P) A.M. Wijesiri Amarapathy

Anil Gooneratne J.

All of Keppitiwalana, Alawwa.

SUBSTITUTED-DEFENDANT RESPONDENTS

Rohan Sahabandu for the ID Substituted-Defendant-Appellant

W. Dayaratne P.C with R. Jayawardena For the Substituted Plaintiff-Respondents

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS TENDERED ON: 11.11.2011 - ID Substituted Defendant-Appellant 09.11.2011 - lA Substituted Plaintiff-Respondent

3

4

ARGUED ON: 26.08.2011 & 02.09.2011

DECIDED ON: 02.12.2011

GOONERA TNE J.

This was an action from the District Court of Kurunegala in a

case where Plaintiff-Respondent sought a declaration to the land described

as 'Damunugahamulawatta' depicted in plan No. 450 as lots 5D & 5E in an

extent of 2 roods 10 perches and also sought the eviction of the original

Defendant. Parties proceeded to trial on 8 issues, and after trial judgment

was entered in favour of the Plaintiff on or about 28.4.1997. Previously this

is a case where an appeal was taken on the judgment delivered by the

original court on 29.3.1975 in favour of the Plaintiff, but the Defendant-

Appellant having appealed from the judgment of 29.3.1975, the Court of

Appeal had set aside the said judgment and sent the case back to the District

Court for re-trial. As such this appeal arises from the 2nd trial held in the

original court and judgment delivered on 28.4.1997 as a result of the re-trial.

5

One of the main arguments put forward by the learned counsel

for the Appellant inter alia was that the District Court erred in it's judgment

in the answer to issue No.6 and identity of corpus He also argued that the

question of the original Defendant having a lease to the property was not

given due consideration and or failed to appreciate that on the lease

agreement the Defendant had a right to possess and therefore no cause of

action had accrued to the Plaintiff-Respondent to sue the Defendant. Trial

Judge's answers to issue Nos. 4 and 7 does not show consistency. There was

also much emphasis by the learned counsel for the Appellant that the

learned District Judge failed to appreciate the law and, the rules regarding

proof of documents, which greatly prejudice the case of the Defendants.

Learned District Judge in the judgment states the Defendant failed to prove

the documents (deeds) tendered to court. Counsel argued that if the

documents are objected and allowed to be marked in evidence subject to

proof and at the conclusion of the case where the documents are read in

evidence without the opposing party objecting to same the documents are

deemed to be proved. Learned District Judge has failed to appreciate the law

in this regard.

This is something that this court need to consider as the law is

settled on this aspect. On 23.10.1996 the case of the Defendants were closed

6

reading in evidence documents Dl to DIO. The proceeding of that day does

not indicate that the Plaintiff objected to any of the above documents at the

closure of the defendant's case. As such the above submissions of the

learned counsel for the Appellant cannot be faulted. At folios 276/277 of the

original brief and perusing same being a portition of the judgment, the trial

court Judge states that the answer of Podisinghe is that by deed of lease V 4

to V7, his brother Ausada Hamy got a lease of the property and he

(Podisinghe) possessed the property on the strength of the said deeds. On the

demise of Podisingho the original Defendant, the substituted Defendant in

the answer takes up the position that Halaldeen sold the property to

Podisingho's daughter (was never pleaded in the original answer of the

original Defendant). District Judge observes that there is no right to plead

such a position in the answer of the substituted Defendant-Plaintiff also

denies such transfer by deeds. Substituted Defendants cannot on deeds V2 &

V3 claim ownership since the original owner does not bring out such a

position. As such the Trial Judge states in the judgment that in these

circumstances the burden is on the Defendant to prove the deeds, under

section 68 of the Evidence Ordinance and the Defendant has not proved the

deeds in compliance with Section 68. Court also states that nor has plan No.

7

3961 of Surveyor General proved in court. The Surveyor was not called to

give evidence.

I have to disagree with the learned District Judge regarding the

above point. The law is settled and it is trite law that if a party fails to object

to documents at the closure of the case it is evidence for all purposes of the

law. There is a long line of authorities on this practice that had been adopted

by the original court from time immaterial. The following to be noted.

Sri Lanka Ports Authority vs. Jugolinija - Boal East 1981 (1) SLR at pgs

23/24 ..... .

... When PI was marked during the trial objection was taken "as the author of PI

has not been called". I take it, what was meant was, that PI be rejected unless the

author was called to prove the document. Counsel for the respondent closed his

case leading in evidence PI and P2. There was no objection to this by counsel for

the appellants who then proceeded to lead his evidence. If no objection is taken

when at the close of a case documents are read in evidence they are evidence for

all purposes of the law. This is the cursus curiae of the original Civil Courts. The

contents of PI were therefore in evidence as to facts therein (vide section 457

Administration of Justice Law, No. 25 of 1975) and it is too late now in appeal to

object to its contents being accepted as evidence of facts. Furthermore the trail

Judge has, in the course of his order, accepted the document in evidence in terms

of the provisions of section 32 (2) of the Evidence Ordinance. I cannot therefore

agree with the contention that the order of the trial Judge on this point is wrong.

8

The latest case on this aspect is the case of Latheef and another

vs. Mansoor 2100 Bar Association Law Reports pg. 204 ...

There remains, however, one more matter on which learned Counsel for the

contending parties have made submissions, which was raised in the context that

the usual practice of reading in evidence the documents that were marked and

produced at the trial in the course of witness testimony was not followed when the

case for the Respondents was closed on 27th April 1993. This is substantive

question 5, which specifically focuses on this issue, namely: is it mandatory to

read the documents in evidence at the conclusion of the trial? There is no

provision in the Civil Procedure Code that mandates the reading in of the marked

documents at the close of the case of a particular party. However, learned and

experienced Counsel who have appeared in the original courts in civil cases from

time immemorial developed such a practice, which has received the recognition of

our courts. For instance, in Sri Lanka Ports Authority and Another v. Jugolinija -

Boat East (1981) 1 Sri LR 18 Samarakoon, C.J., commented on this practice, and

ventured to observe at pages 23 to 24 of his judgment that if no objection to any

particular marked documents is taken when at the close of a case documents are

read in evidence, "they are evidence for all purposes of the law." It has been held

that this is the cursus curiae of the original courts. See, Silva v. Kindersle (1915-

1916) 18 NLR 85; Adaicappa Chettiar v. Thomas Cook and Son (1930) 31 NLR

385 Perera v. Seyed Mohomed (1957) 58 NLR 246; Balapitiya Gunananda Thero

v. Tolalle Methananda Thero (1997) 2 Sri LR 101; Cinemas Limited v.

Sounderarajan (1998) 2 Sri LR 16; Stassen Exports Ltd., v. Brooke Bond Group

Ltd., and Two Others (2010) BLR 249.

The last date of the trial proceedings in this case dated

23.10.1996, the Defendant has closed the case for the Defendant reading in

evidence documents VI to VI0. There had been no objection at that stage by

c

9

the Plaintiff to the said documents. Then the earlier proceedings dated

21.3.1995 at folio 233 indicates that after the Plaintiff was re-examined and

further trial was put off for 14.6.1995. On 14.6.1995 it is recorded that

Plaintiff has given evidence and has closed the case of the Plaintiff on that

date (folio 234). It is also recorded that as the Plaintiff is unwell counsel

cannot state whether Plaintiff s case would be closed or not. Further trial had

been put off for 13.9.1995.

On 19.6.1996 it is again recorded that Plaintiff has closed her

case. Defendant had commenced the Defendant's case on that date. Between

13.9.1995 and 19.6.1996 it appears that Plaintiff had expired and certain

substitution steps had been taken. What has to be observed is that Plaintiff

has closed the case on 19.6.1996 and no indication that Plaintiffs documents

were marked and read in evidence. Both the trial Judge and counsel for

Plaintiff has not followed the accepted procedure adopted by our courts from

time immemorial This is no doubt a serious lapse on the part of the District

Court. This court as well as all trial courts in the island would be bound by

the dicta developed over the years. Vide Sri Lanka Ports Authority vs.

Jugolinija - Boat East. As such all documents marked in evidence would be

legally admissible as evidence of the case inclusive of Defendant's

documents marked VI to VI0. As such it appears to me that the Defendant-

10

Appellant's version becomes more probable. On the death of the original

Defendant during the course of the trial children of the Defendant. were

substituted. The legal heirs of Defendant filed amended answer dated

24.4.1992. I think issue No.6 is important. By D2 deed of 1964 and D3 deed

of 1967 original owner Halaldeen transferred his interest to IF Defendant

Respondent, prior to deed P8.

I also cannot subscribe to the view of Plaintiff that the original

Defendant did not plead IE Defendant's title. The several lease bonds were

in operation and at least until 1980 the lessees could have continued to

possess. Plaint filed on or about 1972. As such on the strength of the lease

bonds possession cannot be disturbed. As such question of ejectment cannot

arise till 1980. Therefore pleading IF Defendant's title prior to 1980 may not

arise. Further all documents marked by the Defendants are legally

admissible and would be evidence for all purposes of the case. All lease

bonds D4 to D7 should have been considered by the learned District Judge.

Further deeds D4 - D7 refer to buildings. The title deeds D2 & D3 in favour

of 1 F Defendant refer to buildings. Plaintiff s deed P8 has no reference at all

to buildings. There is also evidence of payment of rent to Podisingho the

Defendant from 1.4.1968, prior to alleged date of ouster.

11

In view of above I am inclined to take the view that learned

District Judge has failed to accept the fact that the deeds executed in favour

of 1 F Defendant in terms of the Registration of Documents Ordinance takes

priority as that Defendant's deed had been registered prior to 1969. Deed

10861 executed in 1964 and deed No. 12644 in 1967. Plaintiffs deed No.

462 was executed in 1969. Evidence was led to support issue No.6 and that

fact is something that cannot be ignored or merely rejected on the basis that

the original Defendant failed to prove title derived by D2 & D3. The other

aspect of the case, is that of the evidence of witness Wickramasinghe. It is

in evidence that from 1968 to 1971, Podisingho the original Defendant

received rents, from the Co-operative Society. Thereafter from 1971 rent

was paid to the substituted Defendant's daughter of the Defendant, A.

Chandrawathie (IF Defendant).

Document V9 also cannot be ignored where payments of rents

are concerned. This would fortify the position that the Defendant is in

possession of the land in question. The other doubtful position of Plaintiff as

alleged by Plaintiff is that Plaintiff was ousted by Defendant on 30.1.1969.

Plaintiffs title deed is also dated 30.1.1969. This position of Plaintiff gives

rise to doubts with reference to ouster on the same date and title. I agree with

12

Defendant-Appellant that Plaintiffs posseSSIon gIves rIse to false

posseSSIOn.

There are items of evidence (not contradicted) that the learned

District Judge should have considered. A person or authority/organization

would not pay rent without any basis to a person unless nature of the

business or details of land in dispute or transaction is made known (vide

V9).

I have already observed that deeds D2 & D3 were executed in

1964 & 1967 and those deeds are legally admissible and has to be

considered as evidence for all purposes of the law. Above deeds were

executed prior to Deed P8. Therefore the Plaintiff-Respondent's argument

that Halaldeed did not have title to execute the deeds of leases in favour of

the Defendants is not tenable. As such the substituted Defendants could

claim lease hold rights by deed V7. I do not think that the question of

trespass would arise at all once a person is in occupation by a valid lease

document. Therefore collection of rents as by the Defendants as urged by the

Plaintiff-Respondents would not offend but fortify the Defendant's

position. The lease period has commenced from 1959 and would be

operative at least till 1980 on executing deed V7.

13

The learned President's Counsel for Plaintiff-Respondent

contested the submission of learned counsel for Defendant-Appellant and

supported the judgment of the learned District Judge. It was the position of

the learned President's Counsel that Plaintiff has discharged the burden of

proof and with deed P8 proved title to the property in dispute which deed

was not challenged by the Defendant-Appellants at the trial. As regards issue

No. 6 President's Counsel argue that deed V2 & V3 in favour of

Chandrawathie would not support the Appellant's case since Chandrawathie

has no right to plead a different title as a substituted Defendant. As such he

stated issue No.6 has been answered correctly by the District Judge. He

also urged that the title deeds were not proved as required by Section 68 of

the Evidence Ordinance. At this point I also refer to the case of Cinemas

Ltd. v. Sounderarajan (1998) (2) SLR 16 ...

(1) In a civil case when a document is tendered the opposmg party should

immediately object to the document. Where the opposing party fails to object, the

trial judge has to admit the document unless the document is forbidden by law to

be received and no objection can be taken in appeal- S. 154 CPC(explanation)

(2) Where one party to a litigation leads prima facie evidence and the adversary fails

to lead contradicting evidence by cross-examination and also fails to lead

evidence in rebuttal, it is a "matter' falling within the definition of the word

"proof' in the Evidence Ordinance and failure to take cognizance of this feature

and matter is a non-direction amounting, to a misdirection.

14

(3) Once a Court accepts and acts on a proxy or a power of attorney presumably

because no defect appears on the face of such document, any party who desires to

question the authority of that document has the onus of showing, the want of

authority. This rule is based on the presumption- omnia praesumuntur rite et

solemniter esse acts donec probetur in contrarium.

Learned President's Counsel vehemently argued that the lands

claimed by deeds V2 & V3 are not lands within the corpus or that it refers to

a different land. He demonstrated to court the schedule to the deeds V2 &

V3 and emphasized that it refers to a different land. It was also suggested by

him that no leasehold rights flow from deed V7, since Halaldeen by

executing deed P8 on 30.1.1969 (at least 1 year and 10 months after

executing V7) had no rights to the property and it would be an invalid deed

of lease (V7).

I have to emphasis that in this case Plaintiff s case had been

closed as observed above without following the dicta in the Sri Lanka Ports

Authority vs. Jugolinija Boal East; Latheef & Another V s. Mansoor. As

legal practitioners in a Civil Court has to follow the mandatory practice

which had been followed from time immemorial. Failure to do so would put

his client's case into jeopardy. This practice cannot be ignored and counsel

15

cannot make excuses, for not doing so. Leaving room for human error I

would still emphasis that one's omission should have been rectified (if court

permits) without any delay at all. It is for the Plaintiff to prove his title in an

action revindicatio and Defendant need not prove anything, and Plaintiff

need not show the weaknesses of the defendant's case. Burden of proof is

with the Plaintiff throughout the case. Wanigaratne vs. Juwanis 65 NLR 167;

Peeris vs. Savunhamy 54 NLR 207; to establish dominium to the land in

dispute Abeykoon Hamine Vs. Appuhamy 52 NLR 49.

There is another important aspect of this case regarding

identity. On the amended plaint (pg. 2107) Plaintiff predecessor in title J abar

was owner of schedule' B' to the plaint in lieu of his rights to that land,

possessed schedule A. (lots 5D1 & 5E1 in plan 450). On evidence Surveyor

has surveyed only lot 5Dl. (pg. 176) The land consists of lots 5D1 & 5El.

The commission to superimpose plan 3961 was not done (pg. 181). Lot (2)

in Surveyors plan not found (Plan 3961). There is disparity as regards lot 2.

As such identity is doubtful and Plaintiff did not attempt to show that two

lands are different. As such Plaintiff could not have filed action against the

Defendants when there was a subsisting deed of lease at least till 1980 (issue

7 answered in the affirmative). The action filed in 1972 to evict Defendants

16

whilst a lease IS III operation. Can a cause of action anse against the

Defendant?

Original action instituted on or about 1972. Amended plaint

filed on January 1992. Podisingho (defendant) filed answer in June 1973,

where he moved for dismissal of action. Defendant pleaded his brother

Ausada Hamy possessed the land on his behalf. Plaintiff amended the plaint

to bring the said land claimed by Defendant. On the death of Defendant the

substituted Defendant filed amended answer on 24.4.1992. Whilst pleading

the matters in the original answer also pleaded 1 E Defendant became owner

by deed V2 & V3 and sought permission to add IE Defendant as a party.

Court refused. 1 E Defendant however remained as a substituted heir of the

original Defendant. The lease agreements were in force in 1972. I also note

that land had been leased from 1959 to 1980. IE Defendant gave evidence at

the trial. Plaintiff-Respondent cannot have a cause of action to evict the

Defendant whilst the deed of lease was in force. Further there is some

difficulty, where identity of property is concerned. It is Plaintiffs burden to

establish identity of property and prove proper title to the land in dispute.

Answer to issue No.7 in the affirmative would fortify Defendant's position.

I have already stated about issue No.6. Trial Judge's reasoning in answer to

the said issue in the negative cannot be supported by his reasoning. The

17

rentals paid by the Co-operative Society is another relevant fact. (vide V9).

Plaintiff was not in a position to place evidence of possession through an

independent witness or at least through a witness other than Plaintiff. All

documents produced by the defendants inclusive of title deeds are

admissible as evidence for all purposes of this case.

Attention of this court was drawn to the schedules of deeds

marked V2 & V3 by the Plaintiff-Respondents. It is stated therein that the

land is not Damunugahamulawatta but Megahamulawatta. By this,

Respondent attempts to demonstrate that the land claimed by the Defendant-

Appellants is different. However one cannot arrive at such a conclusion by

merely reading a portion of the schedule in deeds V2 & V3. The entire

schedule need to be read along with the other recitals. As such I am unable

to accept the contention of the Plaintiff-Respondent.

In all the above circumstances I am not inclined to affirm the

judgment of the District Court. Plaintiff-Respondent has not discharged the

18

burden of proof properly to establish title, and identity of the land in dispute.

As such I set aside the judgment and dismiss Plaintiff-Respondents action.

Appeal allowed with costs.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL