==== BLOCKS ==== 

-IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

C.A Writ Application No. 439/2010.

In the matter of an Application under and in terms of Article 140 of the Constitution for mandates in the nature of Writs of Certiorari and Prohibition.

Gestetner of Ceylon PLC, No. 248, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02.

Vs.

1. Hon. Gamini Lokuge, Minister of Labour Relations and Productivity Improvement, Ministry of Labour Relations, Labour Secretariat, Narahenpita, Colombo 5.

2. Secretary, Ministry of Labour Relations and Productivity Improvement, Labour Secretariat, Narahenpita, Colombo 5.

3. Commissioner-General of Labour, Department of Labour, Labour Secretariat, Narahenpita, Colombo 5.

4. Mr.T. Piyasoma, Arbitrator, No. 77, Pannipitiya road, Battaramulla.

5. All Ceylon Commercial & Industrial Workers' Union, No. 457, Dr. Colvin R. de Silva

Mawatha, (Union Place), Colombo 02.

Respondents.

,

C.A. Writ Application No. 439/2010

Before.

Counsel:

Argued &

Decided on:

S. Sriskandarajah, J. (P/CA)

Sanjeewa Jayawardena for the petitioner.

Anusha Samaranayake SSC. for the

1 st_3 rd Respondent.

15.05.2012

S. Sriskandarajah, J. (P/CA)

The petitioner is a Company and the workmen whose

services were treated as terminated are belong to the 5th

respondent Union . The petitioner in this application is

seeking a writ of certiorari to quash the reference dated

13/01/2010 marked as P23. This reference is based on the

statement of the matter in dispute contained in P24. The

said reference was made by the Minister under Section 4(1)

of the Industrial Disputes Act. The petitioner and the

respondents agree that the said reference is not

reflecting the real dispute between the petitioner and the

members of the 5th respondent Union. As the said

reference is not reflecting the real dispute between the

parties this court quashes the said reference.

2

The above order is without prejudice to the Ministers

right to make a fresh reference under section 4(1) of the

Industrial Disputes Act as to whether the strike action in

issue is legal or illegal.

In view of the above the application is allowed

without costs.

- ' President of the Court of Appeal

Jmr/-