==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A. No. 435/97(F) D.C. Tangalle No.3105/P

Jamuni Ariyadasa Julgedara, Getamanna Road, Kudaheella Beliatta.

Plaintiff

-Vs- 1. Jamuni Nonahamy Bogahawatta, Gatamanne Road, Kudaheella, Beliatta. 2. Jamuni Belin Nona Julgedara, Getamanna Road, Beliatta

3. Jamuni Siripala Julgedara, Getamanna Road, Beliatta 4. Jamuni sirisena Lihiniya Tiles, Barawakumbuka, Ambalantota.

Defendants

And Now Between

Jamuni Nonahamy Bogahawatta, Gatamanne Road Kudaheella, Beliatta

Defendant-Appellant -Vs- 1. Jamuni Ariyadasa Julgedara, Getamanna Road, Kudaheella Beliatta

Plaintiff-Respondent 2. Jamuni Belin Nona Julgedara, Getamanna Road, Beliatta 3A. Jakodige Wimalawathi Julgedara, Gatamanna Road Kudaheela, Beliatta 4. Jamuni sirisena (deceased) 4A. Jamuni Malani 4B. Jamuni Jayanthi 4C Jamuni Dinesh Sujith Kumara

All of Lihiniya Tiles Barawakumbuka, Riduyagama, Ambalantota.

Defendants-Respondents

C.A.No. 435/97(F)

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED AND

DECIDED ON

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J.

D.C. Tangalle No.3105/P

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J.

Saman Galappaththi for the 1st defendant-

appellant

Thilan Liyanage with Nishshanka Pieris for the

plaintiff-respondent.

1 ph June 2013

1

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the order dated 1st

July, 1997 of the learned District Judge of Tangalle. By that order the

learned District Judge affirmed the final plan bearing No.714A drawn by

P.M.Gamage, License Surveyor who is the Commissioner appointed by

the Court. Having dissatisfied with the blocking out of the land referred

to in the said Plan 714A, the 1st defendant-appellant has moved for an

alternative commission and accordingly the Commissioner D.D.Y.

Abeywardane has submitted his plan bearing No.960215 dated 7th

July1996. The learned District Judge has refused to accept the said

alternative plan and affirmed the blocking out shown in plan 714A of the

Commissioner.

2

Being aggrieved by this order of the learned District

Judge,the 1st defendant-appellant has filed this appeal seeking to

confirm the alternative plan 960215 setting aside the order made

affirming the plan 714A of the Commissioner.

In support of the said application, learned Counsel for the

appellant submitted that the 1st defendant was in occupation of the land

and therefore she should have given the road frontage as shown in the

alternative plan. He also contended that it is insufficient to have 8 feet

roadway as shown in the Commissioner's plan and therefore he moved

that the alternative plan which shows a 10 feet wide road be accepted.

When this matter was taken up for argument on the 13th

March 2013, the plaintiff-respondent agreed to have the road referred to

above extended to become it to 10 feet in width. However, when the

matter was taken up today in the morning, Counsel for the 1st defendant-

appellant submitted that the appellant is not willing to have it widened to

10 feet despite the fact that the alternative plan which the appellant

sought to confirm show only a 10 feet wide road.

In the circumstances, it is clear that the 1st defendant-

appellant even though has claimed it is insufficient to have a 8 feet road,

she is now not interested in having even a 10 feet wide road that she

l I l

3

sought in the petition of appeal. Therefore, as far as the width of the road

is concerned, the relief prayed for in the petition of appeal cannot be

granted as the appellant is not interested in having such a relief now.

The appellant also has contended that it is unfair to prevent her

from having the road frontage as shown in the Commissioner's plan. The

plaintiff-respondent has been allotted Lot 6A in plan 714A with a road

frontage facing the main road. All the other parties were not given such

a road frontage. The shape of the land to be partitioned is such that it is

difficult to block out the land enabling two or more parties to enjoy the

road frontage as the width of the road frontage is so short. Therefore,

nothing is wrong by affording the available road frontage to the plaintiff,

he being the person instrumental in having the land partitioned that

benefitted all the parties to the action. The improvements claimed by the

1st defendant-appellant has also been considered by the Commissioner

and she has been allotted the area where her buildings are situated.

Hence, no prejudice has been caused to the appellant as far as her

improvements are concerned. On the other hand, if the division of the

land is made according to the alternative plan submitted on behalf of the

appellant, not only the block allotted to the plaintiff-respondent but .m. r

the blocks of lands allocated to the 2nd defendant and to the 4th

defendant also will get disturbed causing difficulties to them.

4

At this stage it must also be noted that the reason for the

preparation of the alternative plan had been a request made by the 3rd

defendant to the surveyor by the letter dated 23.11.1995, (vide page 90 of

the appeal brief) requesting to have the blocks of lands of the 1st and the

3rd defendant allocated to them jointly. This letter was given long after

the Commissioner has drawn up his plan. The Commissioner had visited ~ the land on 17th & 18th May 1994. Had this request"~ made to the r---

Commissioner at the appropriate time, he could have considered the

request made in the said letter dated 23.11.1995 and the division of the

land would have been made accordingly. Therefore, it is seen that the

alternative plan had been prepared upon after thoughts of the 3rd

defendant and it shows that it was not a genuine application.

Under those circumstances, it is not correct to interfere with the

blocking out of the land by the Commissioner, Gamage.

For the aforesaid reasons, I am not inclined to interfere with

the order dated 01 st July, 1997 of the learned District Judge of Tangalle.

Accordingly, this appeal is dismissed with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Kwk/=