==== BLOCKS ==== 

Page 1 of 8

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for a mandate in the nature of Writs of Certiorari and Prohibition under Article 140 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. 1. Viyanralalage Seaman Nishantha Udaya Kumara Colony 88,Okkampitiya, Moneragala. Case No. CA (Writ) 974/2007 2. Ekanayaka Mudiyanselage AsangaBandaraEkanayaka “AmbaSevana”, Divugalpitiya, Keppetipola. 3. Hewa Bambarandage Madhu Sri Kumara Ambalanwatta, Welihena, Bopagoda, Akuressa. 4. Nissanka Mudiyanselage Mahinda Pradeep Nissanka Yaya 10, Hospital Road, UvaTissapura, Mapakadawewa. 5. KandanpulliHewage Ravindra Kumara Wijesiri “Madushanka”, 10th Mile Post, Medagama, Bibile. Petitioners

Vs. 1. Secretary Ministry of Education and Local Government, Uva Provincial Council, Badulla. 2. Secretary Ministry of Education, “Isurupaya”, Sri Jayawardanapura Kotte.

Page 2 of 8

3. M.D. Mangala Piyaseeli, Buttala. 4. H.M. Gunaratne, Naagadeepa Gama, Uraniya, Mahiyanganaya. 5. R.T.Jayalath Ratnayake, Mahthanna, Kirawangama, Haldamulla. 6. G.M. Sanjeewa Pradeep Kumara Alwis, No. 14, Akkara visipaha, Moneragala. 7. A.K.M. Menaka Priyadarshanee, Alanmulla, Medagama, Bibile. 8. C.L. Siriwardena, No. 6, Kotmallanda, Spring Valley, Badulla. 9. Y.M. Anusha Dilhani, No. 33, Nelumgama, Badulla. 10. K.A.W. Vajira Senadheera Bandara, No. 99, Kolluwatta, Oboda Ella, Bndarawela. 11. K.D. Susantha Pushpakumara, Jana Udana Village, Meeragahawatta, Welikadagama, Bandarawela. 12. R.M. Ayesh Lakshitha Ratnayake, Teachers Quarters, B/Halpe Central College, Hela Halpe.

Page 3 of 8

13. H.M. Kanthi, Getagahawatta, Rambukpotha, Badulla. 14. I.M.Thivanka harshani Mayurakanthi, “Suramapaya”, Digatenna, Bandarawela. Respondents

Before: Janak De Silva J.

N. Bandula Karunarathna J.

Counsel:

Manohara De Silva P.C. with Imalka Abeysinghe for the Petitioners

Suren Gnanaraj SSC for 1st and 2nd Respondents

Chandrasiri Wanigapura for the 3rd to 5th Respondents

Shantha Jayawardena with Chamara Nanayakkarawasam for the 6th to 14th Added Respondents

Written Submissions Filed On:

Petitioners on 31.07.2019

1st and 2nd Respondents on 11.03.2019 and 17.10.2019

3rd to 5th Respondents on 28.06.2019

6th to 14th Added Respondents on 11.03.2019 and 17.10.2019

Argued On: 23.10.2019

Decided On: 26.05.2020

Page 4 of 8

Janak De Silva J.

The Petitioners are members of the Student Union of the Faculty of Music in the University of

Visual & Performing Arts and the 3rd Petitioner functions as its President. The 1st, 2nd, 4th and

5th Petitioners reside within the Uva Province.

They are assailing the decision of the 1st Respondent contained in P7 by which applications

were called to recruit Aesthetic and English teachers to Sri Lanka Teachers' Service. The

recruitment is for employment in the Uva Province Provincial Public Service.

The advertisement specified the following prerequisite qualifications:

(1) Passing National Music Final Examination

(2) Passing Bathkande Music Final Examination

The Petitioners complain that this restricts the recruitment of aesthetic teachers including

music teachers to Diplomats with the above qualifications excluding graduates thereby

depriving the Petitioners from applying for the post of teachers in the Uva Province. It is further

claimed that the above qualifications have not been recognized by the Ministry of Education as

diploma courses and as such the proposed recruitment violates section 2.11 of the Minutes of

Sri Lanka Teacher Service (P8 and P9).

The Petitioners are seeking the following relief:

(a) Writ of Certiorari quashing the decision of the 1st Respondent to call applications only from

the diplomats for vacant music teachers' posts in the Uva Provincial Council contained in the

newspaper advertisement marked P7 and any subsequent decision taken based on the said

decisions;

(b) Writ of Certiorari quashing the decision of the 1st Respondent recruiting only diplomates to

the post of music teacher in the Uva Province excluding graduates;

(c) Writ of Prohibition prohibiting the 1st Respondent recruiting anybody to the post of music

teacher based on the qualifications contained in the newspaper advertisement marked P7;

Page 5 of 8

(d) Writ of Prohibition prohibiting the 1st Respondent recruiting only diplomates to the post of

music teacher in the Uva Province excluding graduates.

The application of the Petitioners must be dismissed on procedural requirements on at least

two grounds.

Firstly, the Petitioners have failed to add necessary parties. The rule is that all those who would

be affected by the outcome of the writ application should be made respondents to the

application [Amaratunga J. in Wijeratne (Commissioner of Motor Traffic) v. Ven. Dr. Paragoda

Wimalawansa Thero and 4 others [(2011) 2 Sri.L.R. 258 at 267]. While this is the general rule a

particular application of this rule in relation to school admission is found in Gregory Fernando

and Others v. Stanley Perera, Acting Principal, Christ The King National School and Others

[(2004) 1 Sri.L.R. 346] where this Court dismissed in limine an application which sought a writ of

certiorari to quash the temporary list of successful candidates without making the successful

children parties to the application.

In this instant as well, after P7 was published 450 candidates were selected but the Petitioner

did not make any of them Respondents. Only 12 candidates out of the said 450 are

Respondents and that too after they intervened. It is clear from letters marked X15 to X15(d)

that the selected candidates were granted fixed term appointments every six months and that

they have not been confirmed in the public service notwithstanding having served for almost 12

years. The said letters, X15 to X15(d), state that the said Fixed Term appointments are subject

to the final determination of this Court.

Since the reliefs claimed by the Petitioners adversely affect the rights of parties not before

Court the application is liable to be dismissed on that ground alone.

Secondly, the Petitioners have suppressed and/or misrepresented material facts to Court. It is

established law that discretionary relief will be refused by Court without going into the merits if

there has been suppression and/or misrepresentation of material facts.

Page 6 of 8

This principle has been consistently applied by courts in writ applications as well.

[Hulangamuwa v. Siriwardena [(1986) 1 Sri.L.R.275], Collettes Ltd. v. Commissioner of Labour

[(1989) 2 Sri.L.R. 6], Laub v. Attorney General [(1995) 2 Sri.L.R. 88], Blanca Diamonds (Pvt) Ltd. v.

Wilfred Van Els [(1997) 1 Sri.L.R. 360], Jaysinghe v. The National Institute of Fisheries [(2002) 1

Sri.L.R. 277] and Lt. Commander Ruwan Pathirana v. Commodore Dharmasiriwardene& Others

[(2007) 1 Sri.L.R. 24].

In Fonseka v. Lt. General Jagath Jayasuriya and Five Others [(2011) 2 Sri.L.R. 372] a divisional

bench of this Court held:

“(1)A petitioner who seeks relief by writ which is an extra‐ordinary remedy must in

fairness to Court, bare every material fact so that the discretion of Court is not wrongly

invoked or exercised.

(2) It is perfectly settled that a person who makes an ex parte application to Court is

under an obligation to make the fullest possible disclosure of all material facts within his

knowledge.

(3) If there is anything like deception the Court ought not to go in to the merits, but

simply say" we will not listen to your application because of what you have done.”

The essence of the complaint of the Petitioners is that the recruitment sought to be done is

prejudicial to graduates such as the Petitioners. However, according to the Sri Lanka Teachers

Service Minute, diploma holders are recruited to Class 3 Grade II of the Teachers Service

whereas graduates are recruited to Class 3 Grade I of the Teachers Service. Diploma holders

recruited as teachers are only entitled to teach students from Grade I to the G.C.E. O/L whereas

graduate teachers can teach students from Grade I to A/L. As such from time to time

applications have been called separately from diploma holders and graduates to fill vacancies in

the Teachers Service based on the service requirements.

Accordingly, in so far as the Uva Province is concerned applications were called only from

graduates to fill vacancies that existed in Class 3 Grade I of the Sri Lanka Teacher Service in the

Uva Province in February 2007 (R1) four months prior to P7 thereby providing employment

Page 7 of 8

opportunities to graduates. This is a material fact which the Petitioners have suppressed and as

such this application is liable to be dismissed on that ground alone.

An examination of the merits of the application is unnecessary given the above facts, yet for the

sake of completeness I will proceed to examine them as well.

As explained earlier, diploma holders and graduates are treated as two distinct and different

classes in terms of the Teachers Service Minute P8 and P9. The Petitioners did not assail the

Service Minute. The Petitioners cannot challenge the validity of the recruitment sought to be

done by P7 based on the said distinction drawn in the Teachers Service Minute P8 and P9

between diploma holders and graduates.

The Petitioners contend that the proposed recruitment is contrary to Article 12(1) of the

Constitution and, it is implied, that this application should be referred to the Supreme Court in

terms of Article 126(3) of the Constitution. Reliance is placed on Perera v. Prof. Daya Edirisinghe

[(1995) 1 Sri.L.R. 148 at 156].

However, P7 is dated 23.06.2007 whereas this application was filed on 19th November 2007

after more than the one month stipulated in Article 126(2) of the Constitution. In Shanthi

Chandrasekaram v. D.B. Wijetunga and Others [(1992) 2 Sri.L.R. 293 at 297] Fernando J. held:

"Article 126(1) confers sole and exclusive jurisdiction in respect of infringements of

fundamental rights, and Article 126(2) prescribes how that jurisdiction may be invoked.

Article 126(3) is not an extension of or exception to those provisions: if a person who

alleges that his fundamental rights have been violated fails to comply with them, he

cannot smuggle that question into a writ application in which relief is claimed on

different facts and grounds, and thereby seek a decision from this Court."

In any event, the complaint that the National Music Final Examination and the Bathkande Music

Final Examination have not been recognized by the Ministry of Education as diploma courses is

incorrect. By letter dated 09.10.2007 [3‐5R2] the Secretary, Ministry of Education informed the

Secretary, Provincial Ministry of Education, Uva Province that the two examinations are

recognized.

Page 8 of 8

The Petitioner refers to the date of this letter and submits that it is post‐facto and should be

disregarded. However, it only supports the averments made by the 1st and 2nd Respondents

that these two examinations have been recognized by the Ministry of Education.

For all the foregoing reasons, I dismiss the application.

With regard to costs, I am inclined to order costs as sought by the 3rd to 14th Respondents in

view of the facts of the case. The Petitioners shall each pay to the 3rd to 14th Respondents Rs.

5,000/= each as costs of this application. Hence each of the 3rd to 14th Respondents is entitled

to receive a total of RS. 25,000/= as costs of this application.

Application dismissed with costs as set out above.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

N. Bandula Karunarathna J.

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal