==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A (Writ) Application No. 744/09

1. Udagangoda Kudaakara Ralalage Nimal Boralugoda, Keenagaha Ella Road, Amupitiya, Imbulpe. 2. Heenmahaththaya Liyanage, No. 41, Vidyala Mawatha, Pelmadulla

Petitioners Vs. 1. National Gem and Jewellery Authority, No. 25, Galle Face Terrace, Colombo 3. 2. Hasitha Thilakaratne, Former Chairman, National Gem and Jewellery Authority, No. 25, Galle Face Terrace, Colombo 3. 2A. Anil .Koswatta Former Chairman, National Gem and Jewellery Authority, No. 25, Galle Face Terrace, Colombo 3. 2B. General Rohan Daluwatta, Chairman, National Gem and Jewellery Authority, No. 25, Galle Face Terrace, Colombo 3.

3. D.H.M. Rathnasiri, Former Secretary, Ministry of Enterprise Development and Investment Promotion, No. 46/56, Lanlib Building, Nawam Mawatha, Colombo 2. 3A. Dr. R.H.S. Samaratunga, Secretary, Ministry of Enterprise Development and Investment Promotion, No. 46/56, Lanlib Building, Nawam Mawatha, Colombo 2. 4. Wimalaratne Muthugala, Senior Provincial Manager, National Gem and Jewellery Authority - Provincial Headquarters, Ratnapura. 5. R.M.M.B. Kumari, Legal Officer, Ministry of Enterprise Development and Investment Promotion, No. 46/56, Lanlib Building, Nawam Mawatha, Colombo 2. 6. Indika Chaminda Kariyawasam, 7. Sameera Chathuranga Kariyawasam, Both of 'JayasewanCi', Naluwewa, Balangoda.

Respondents

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application under Article

140 of the Constitution of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for mandates

in the nature of Writs of Certiorari,

Mandamus and Prohibition.

*******

(.A. (Writ) Application No. 744/09

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

1

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

: Manohara De Silva PC with

Pubuduni Wickramaratne for the

Petitioners.

Janak De Silva D.S.G. for the 1st

to 5th Respondents.

Wijedasa Rajapakshe PC with

Rasika Dissanayake for the 6

th

and ih Respondents.

: 13th November, 2013.

: 24th February, 2014

Oeepali Wijesundera J.

This application relates to a granting of a Gemming licence to a

land called Raththanaketiya Kumbura. The petitioners have filed this

application against the respondents for a writ of certiorari to quash the

decision of the 1 st, 2nd, 3rd and 5th respondents to revoke the cancellation

of the Gemming Licence issued to the 6th and 7th respondents by P27

and the decision to grant the licence to 6th and ih respondents by P23A.

And for a writ of mandamus against the 1 st and 2nd respondents to issue

a Gemming Licence to the 2nd petitioner and to implement the decisions

in P26. Also a writ of Prohibition against the 1 st to 5th respondents to

prohibit the 6th and 7th respondents from gemming on Raththanaketiya

Kumbura.

The learned Deputy Solicitor General appearing for the 1 st to 5th

respondents informed court that they have not filed objections to the

petitioner's application and that they will abide by any order given by this

court.

2

A Gemming Licence was granted to the land called

Raththanaketiya Kumbura for the year 2004 bearing No. 33037 to

Dingiri Mahathaya who is the father of 6th and ih respondents. The 1st

petitioner objected to this licence on the basis that Dingiri Mahathaya is

entitled only to undivided 1/3 share of the said land. Thereafter this

permit was suspended (P11A) and an inquiry was held for which the

petitioners have failed to attend and the suspension was withdrawn

(P12). His licence was extended in 2005 to which the 1st petitioner has

objected and appealed to 1st respondent and the license was

suspended (P13). An inquiry was held and on the grounds of not having

ownership to 2/3 share of the land his licence was cancelled. Dingiri

Mhathaya has filed a writ application in the Court of Appeal which was

later withdrawn. Thereafter another licence was issued to Dingiri

Mahathaya for the year 2006/2007 against which the 1 st petitioner filed a

writ application in the Court of Appeal.

The 1st respondent has informed court that he is willing to hold a

fresh inquiry and the proceedings were terminated (P18).

An inquiry was held at the Ratnapura Provincial office as agreed,

and decided that the 2nd petitioner should be given a licence for

Gemming since he owned 2/3 of the said land (P21). The 2

nd petitioner

3

on lease agreement 21375 obtaining the rights of 2/3 share of the land

has applied for a Gemming License.

Dingiri Mahathaya has complained to the Human Rights

Commission against the findings of these inquiries, and the Human

Rights Commission has recommended a Gemming Licence for the 6th

and 7th respondents and it was granted (P23A). The petitioners have

complained against this order and again an inquiry was held and the

licence was granted to the 2nd petitioner against which 6th and ih

respondents find CA 597/09 in the Court of Appeal to quash the

decision of the statutory inquiry which the petitioners states is wrong

and under Sec.15(1) of the National Gem and Jewellery Autority Act

they should file action in the Supreme Courts.

The learned Presidents Counsel for the petitioners stated that

under the said act a Gemming Licence should be given to a person who

owns the land or 2/3 of the land on consent of the owners, whereas the

2nd petitioner has obtained the consent of the owners of the land, he

should be granted the licence. Marking documents P11, P2A, P2B, P3

and P4 the petitioner stated the petitioners got title from Mohottihamy.

He submitted that the father of the 6th and ih respondents Dingiri

Mahathaya who got title from Kiri Appuhamy (P7) inherited only 1/3

4

share of the land from Mohottihamy who had 3 sons, on the face of

these documents.

The 6th and 7th respondents claimed the entire land stating Kiri

Appuhamy's title which was transferred by Deed No. 409 (P7 and 6R1)

to Dingiri Mahathaya father of the 6th and 7th respondents. The 6th and

ih respondents learned counsel stated that in 2004 a Gemming

Licences were issued to Dingiri Mahathaya which is marked as 6R6 (a)

to (d) to which the petitioners objected and it was cancelled on the basis

that he did not own 2/3 share of the said land. The 6th and 7th

respondents after going before the Ombudsman and the Human Rights

Commission have got the licence. They have also filed a writ application

CA 59712009 against the respondents which was later terminated after

the 1 st ,2nd ,3rd and 5th respondents gave an undertaking to take steps

according to law. The argument of the 6th and ih respondents is that the

petitioner did not acted under Sec.15 of the said act and applied for a

licence and that without a proper application they cannot appeal. They

argued that without an application a writ does not lie.

Documents marked and produced as P11 which is a lease

agreement given to the 2nd petitioner shows that 2/3 share of the said

land has been given to him which are the shares of 2 sons of

5

Mohottihamy. P2A, P2B, P3 and P4 shows that Mohottihamy whos title

is claimed by the 6th and ih respondents had more than one son namely

Kiri Appuhamy therefore the 6th and ih respondent's claim of the entire

land is not correct. Kiri Appuhamy inherited only 1/3 share of the land

from his father Mohottihamy.

The 6th and 7th respondents stated that there was no valid

application under Sec. 15 of the National Gem and Jewel/ary Authority

Act but document marked as P19 shows that the 2nd petitioner has in

fact made an application after he received P11. The 6th and ih

respondent's argument on this issue is not correct.

The 6th and ih respondents argued that the Human Rights

Commission and the Ombudsman directed the respondents to issue a

Gemming License to them.

Sec. 15 (8) of the said Act reads thus;

(8) Where the Authority:-

(a) Refuses an application for a licence made under

subsection (3);

(b) Revokes a licence under subsection (7),

6

The applicant or the licensee may before the expiry of a period of

thirty days from the date of such refusal or revocation, as the case

may be, appeal to the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister

(hereinafter referred to as the "Society")

Sec.15(11) reads thus;

(11) An applicant of licensee dissatisfied with a decision of

the Secretary disallowing, under subsection (9), an appeal

made to such Secretary under subsection (8), may appeal

from such decision of the Secretary, to the Supreme Court

within thirty days of the date on which such decision is

communicated to him.

It is quite clear that the 6th and 7th respondents have not acted

accordingly to the said act. Their contention of Court of Appeal directing

the 1st respondent to issue a licence is not correct. They have not acted

under Se.15(8) (b), when the licence was cancelled they have gone to

the Human Rights Commission and the Ombudsman which is contrary

to the said act. The Human Rights Commission does not have

jurisdiction to sit in appeal. The licence issued on their directions cannot

7

stand under this Act. Findings of statutory inquiry held under the

National Gem and Jewellery Authority Act cannot be revoked by the

respondents without the intervention of court, this decision has been

taken unlawfully and is arbitrary and done without jurisdiction.

The application of the petitioner is allowed on the afore stated

reasons. Prayers (c) (d) (e ) (f) and (g) of the petition are granted.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

8