==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COUT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA.90/2012 H.C.Gampaha No. 174/06

Madurapperumage Priyantha No: 01, Ranwala Devidugama, Meethisigala.

Appellant Vs. The Hon. Attorney General Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

I ..

f i • , I I j i 1 , 1 ! 'I I I t

~ !

\ ,

~ I I I I t . ~ t I I I I I ! ,

CA.90/2012

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

Sisira J.De Abrew, J

1

H.C.Gampaha No. 174/06.

Sisira J .De Abrew, J

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J

Isuru Somadasa for the Accused-Appellant.

Yasantha Kodagoda DSG for the AG

31.10.2013

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases .

The accused - appellant in this case was convicted for rapIng a girl

named Danansuriya Arachchige Sujeewa Disana Kumari and was

sentenced to a term of ten years rigorous imprisonment, to pay a fine of

Rs. 2500/-carrying a default sentence of three months rigorous

imprisonment and to pay a sum of Rs. 25,000/- as compensation to the

victim carrying a default sentence of two years rigorous imprisonment.

Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence he has appealed

to this court. Facts of this case may be briefly summarised as follows:

The prosecutrix in this case was below average intelligence (according to

the doctor). On the day of incident between 3.30 p.m. and 5.30 p.m. the

accused-appellant has come to the house of the prosecutrix and raped her

in her brother's room. According to the doctor there was a vaginal

penetration. The doctor has found two recent contusions in the vagina.

I \

'.

2

w'}/ Prosecutrix states that accused-appellant j8 inserted his male organ to her

vagma. Learned Counsel for accused-appellant contends that her

evidence cannot be relied upon as she, in the cross examination, has

stated that she could not remember what happened after the accused-

appellant came to the house. But it appears from the evidence that she is

a person who forgets things due to her mental condition. (below average

intelligence). Learned Counsel brings to the notice of Court the history

given by her in the short history. She has said that the accused-appellant

had promised to give her money. Harping on this statement learned

Counsel contends that she has given her consent. We are unable agree

with this submission. It was only made by the accused-appellant that he

would give money. That would not mean that prosecutrix had given the

consent to the sexual act. The accused-appellant, in the dock statement,

had denied this incident. When we consider the evidence led at the trial

we are of the opinion that the prosecution has proved its case beyond

reasonable doubt. Therefore we refuse to interfere with the judgment of

the learned trial Judge. We affirm the conviction and the sentence and

dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL