==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

Court of Appeal Application

No.681/2007

In the matter of an Application for a

Writ of Mandamus made under Article

140 of the Constitution of the Republic

of Sri Lanka

Mr.K.U.R.Wickremasinghe of

No.ll1, Sunethra Devi Road

Kohuwela, Nugegoda

Vs.

1. Secretary

Ministry of Trade, Commerce &

Consumer

Affairs

21, Rakshana Mandiraya

Vauxhall Street

Colombo 02.

2. Secretary,

Ministry of Planning

Central Bank Bldg

Colombo 01.

3. Secretary,

Petitioner

Ministry of Public Administration & Home

Affairs, Independent Square, Colombo 07.

f i I I

) I )

~ ,

I

f

t

1 ! t ! !

t II I i

\

Before:

Counsel:

Argued on:

Decided on:

2

4. Secretary

Ministry of Policy Planning &

Implementation

Central Bank Building,

Colombo 01.

5. Director General, Establishments,

Independent Square

Colombo 07.

6. The Food Commissioner,

Food Commissioner's Dept.

No.330, Union Place,

Colombo 02.

7. Director of Pensions,

Office of the Director of Pensions

Colombo 01.

8. The Hon. Attorney-General,

Attorney-General's Department

Colombo 12.

Respondents

S. Sriskandarajah, J. P(C/A}

S.P. Sriskantha,

for the Petitioner

Ms.M.M.B.Fernando DSG

for the Respondents

23.02.2011

25.07.2011

3

S.Sriskandarajah J

The Petitioner in this application is seeking a mandate in the nature of a Writ of

Mandamus compelling anyone or more of the Respondents to pay and settle the

Petitioner's entitlements i.e. Balance salary, Balance Pension and consolidated interest

specified in document marked P12.

The Petitioner was appointed as a Food Control Inspector in the Food Control

Department with effect from 1st July 1972. By letter dated 17th February 1978 the

Petitioner was informed that the Provident Fund Scheme, to which he was originally

admitted had been abolished and he was now absorbed into the Pension Scheme. The

Petitioner submitted that whilst he was serving at the Regional Office of the Food

Control Department in Galle, he was informed by the Food Commissioner, that the post

of Food Control Inspector had been suppressed and hence his services had been

terminated. At the time of termination of the Petitioner's employment he was 49 years

of age and his pension was calculated based on his services of 19 years. The Petitioner

contended that the said post of Food Control Inspector was never suppressed and he

had been misled by the said letter of termination and that his services had been

wrongfully terminated 11 years before his compulsory age of retirement. He claimed

that in terms of the circulars issued by the Ministry of Public Administration a total sum

due to the Petitioner as at 3rd of June 2007 by way of balance salary, balance pension

and consolidated interest is Rs.4,523,014/22. He has sent a letter of demand on the 16th

of May 2007 through a lawyer, but he has not received any response from the

Respondents.

The Respondents contended that on the year 1990, the Cabinet of Ministers took a

decision upon the recommendation of the Salaries and Cadre Committee pertaining to

the Food Department of the Ministry of Food and Co-operatives to re-organize the

4

activities of the Food Department and to retain the services of certain officers and

suppress the balance post on a similar procedure that was adopted to close down the

Department of Marketing. Accordingly 1149 posts were suppressed, including 8 posts

of Food Inspectors, and such officers were placed on retirement from 1st February 1992,

and the petitioner who was holding the post of Food Inspector was offered a placement

in the Social Service Department. However, the Petitioner refused to accept the said

posting and indicated his willingness to go on retirement and also requested that the

compensation and pension be paid expeditiously. In view of the request of the

Petitioner, Petitioner's retirement was effected and he was retired from 1st of February

1992.

The decision to suppress the post of Food Inspectors to which the Petitioner belongs

was made by a Cabinet decision and it is a policy decision of the government, steps

were taken by the Respondents in order to retire the officers who were holding the

suppressed post in accordance with the procedure adopted in similar situations. In this

instant case the Petitioner was in fact offered on humanitarian grounds to place him in

another government department and continue his service, but the Petitioner, by his

letter dated 29.01.1992 has informed that he wishes to go on retirement and has

requested the authorities to pay compensation and pension expeditiously. In view of

this fact, the Petitioner's compensation and pension was paid. The Petitioner by this

application is seeking a Mandamus to pay his balance salary up to the date on which he

reaches his retirement age, and pension should be calculated according to the salary

that he would have received if he has retired on his retirement age. The Petitioner is

seeking these rights after 15 years of his retirement, and the Petitioner by his letter

dated 29.01.1992 has refused to accept a posting in another government department,

and has requested that he be retired. In these circumstances the Petitioner cannot claim

that in the normal circumstances he would have served until he reaches his retirement

age.

5

In view of the above, the Petitioner is not entitled to claim for the balance salary and the

other benefits as of right and there is no public duty on the respondents to grant those

benefits to the Petitioner. In Ratnayake and others v CD.Perera and others 1982 2 SLR 451 at

456Sharvananda,] with Victor Perera,], and Colin-Thome,], agreeing held;

"The general rule of Mandamus is that its function is to compel a public

authority to do its duty. The essence of Mandamus is that it is a command issued

by the superior Court for the performance of public legal duty. Where officials

have a public duty to perform and have refused to perform, Mandamus will lie

to secure the performance of the public duty, in the performance of which the

applicant has sufficient legal interest."

Hence the Petitioner is not entitled to a Writ of Mandamus, as prayed for in this

application and this Court dismisses his application without costs.

/. ~ /t:----~ ...-f->resident of the Court of Appeal