==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA case No: 208I2000 (f) D.C. Kandy case No: 12717/L

Wattarantenna Mudiyanselage Tikiri Banda Kalotuwagodawatta, Waharkgoda, Danture.

Plaintiff Vs. 1. Weerasekara Mudiyanselage Bandara Menike (Deceased) 2. Weerasekara Mudiyanselage Wijerathna Banda (Deceased)

Defendants 1. Dasanayake Ralalage Podimenike 2. Weerasekara Mudiyanselage Sarath Bandara Weerasekara 3. Weerasekara Mudiyanselage Upul Bandara Weerasekara 4. Weerasekara Mudiyanselage Nimal Bandara Weerasekara 5. Weerasekara Mudiyanselage Shantha Bandara Weerasekara

Substituted Defendants AND BETWEEN

1. Dasanayake Ralalage Podimenike 2. Weerasekara Mudiyanselage Sarath Bandara Weerasekara 3. Weerasekara Mudiyanselage Upul Bandara Weerasekara (Deceased) 4. Weerasekara Mudiyanselage Nimal Bandara Weerasekara 5. Weerasekara Mudiyanselage Shantha Bandara Weerasekara all of Delgahakotuw , Walgampaya , Danture.

Substituted Defendants-Appellants Vs.

Wattarantenna Mudiyanselage Tikiri Banda Kalotuwagodawatta , Waharkgoda , Danture.

Plaintiff-Respondent

1 l l

'

- /

C .A. Appeal No. 208/2000(Fl -D.C. Kandy No. 12717/L

Before

Counsel

Argued & Decided on

Upaly Abeyrathne, J.

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

Upul Ranjan Hewage for the Defendant-Appellant.

Plaintiff-Respondent is absent and unrepresented.

31.01.2013. *********

1

Learned Counsel for the Appellants informs court that

the learned Additional District Judge of Kandy had delivered

judgment in this case on 28.01.2000. The substituted 3rd

defendant namely Weerasekera Mudiyanselage Upul Bandara l

Weerasekera had died on 08.06.1998 before the delivery of said

judgment. Counsel further informs court that plaintiff-respondent

had not taken steps for substitution in place of the deceased 3rd

defendant. He further informs that learned Additional District

Judge had delivered her judgment without effecting the

substitution. In proof of the said fact the death certificate of

said Weerasekera Mudiyanselage Upul Bandara Weerasekera, the

substituted 3rd defendant has been produced marked 'X1 '.

f f

~ r

..

2

I have perused the said death certificate. According to

the death certificate Weerasekera Mudiyanselage Upul Bandara

Weerasekera had died on 08.06.1998. The judgment had been

delivered on 28.01.2000. I have perused the journal entries of

the main case record. It appears from the said journal entries that

no steps had been taken for substitution in place of the deceased

substituted 3rd defendant, Weerasekera Mudiyanselage Upul

Bandara Weerasekera. In these circumstances, the judgment

delivered by the learned Additional District Judge dated

20.01.2000 is therefore void. Hence I direct the registrar of this

Court to send back the main case record to the District Court of

Kandy for the purpose of substitution and all consequential

steps and thereafter to deliver judgment.

The present District Judge 1s competent to deliver

judgment in this case.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

/mds