==== BLOCKS ==== 

t I I [

J I 1 I I I 1 I

~ 1

~

1 I I

~ I I

( 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

In the matter of an application for Revision

of the Judgment of the Provincial high Court of Southern Provincial sitting at the Galle delivered on 16/09/2013 in H.C. ?RA/32/13 Revision in Magistrate's Court of Galle Case No.3514/13

C.A. (PHC) APN No.117/2013 RA

H.C.Galle No.HC/RA/32/13

MC Galle Case No.3514/13

Ananda Sarath paranagama.

No.189/1, Matara Road, Unawatuna.

Vs.

Party of 2 nd part Petitioner -Petitioner

1. Dhammadinna Sarath Paranagama

No.195/1, Matara Road,

Unawatuna.

2

2. Kamitha Aswin Paranagama

No.195/ 1, Matara Road,

Unawatuna.

Parties of 1st part Respondents-Respondents.

Officer in Charge,

Police Station, Habaraduwa.

Informant-Respondent-Respondent

C.A. (PHC)APN 117/2013 H.C. Galle No. HCRA/32/23

Before

Counsel

Argued on

Decided on

A. W .A. Salam, J. &

Sunil Rajapakshe, J.

Subashini Cooray with Buddhika Gamage

for the 2nd Party-Petitioner-Petitioner.

Janake Balasuriya with Hashan for the 18t party -

Responden t -Responden t.

20.11.2013

12.12.2013

3

A.W.A.Salam,J.

This is a revision application to set aside and revise the judgement of

the High Court dated 16/09/2013 and the order of the learned Magistrate

dated 04/09/2013. The order of the Magistrate has been entered in respect

of the land described under chapter (vii) of the Primary Court Procedure Act

No. 44/1974. By the said order the learned Magistrate inter alia order made

the demolition of the parapet wall in question. The learned High Court

Judge in the exercise of the revisionary power has affirmed the order of the

Magistrate. Against the said judgment, an appeal has already been filed by

the party of the 2nd part-petitioner-petitioner and the present revision

application has been filed merely to obtain the interim relief for stay of the

execution of the order of the learned Magistrate. When the matter of the

application for revision was supported for interim relief, this Court by order

dated 20/9/2013 issued a stay order restraining the execution of the order

of the Magistrate. The 18t party- Respondent - Respondents have presently

raised several objections against the extension of the stay order inter alia on

the ground that the petitioner had failed to comply with the Rule 3 of the

Supreme Court, in that he has failed to annex a certified copy of the

proceedings in High Court and the Magistrate's Court. As a matter of fact,

the petitioner in this application has referred to his inability to produce the

copy of the proceedings and the sought the permission to do so in due

course. The petitioner has later produced the certified copies of the relevant

proceedings and therefore the objection raises with regard to noncompliance

of the Supreme Court Rules fails.

4

The next objection raised aginst the extension of the stay order and

maintainability of the revision application is the failure on the part of the

party of the 2nd party petitioner-petitioner to exercise uberrima fides and

suppression of material facts.

Having considered this ground urged by the party of the 1 st part -

respondent-respondents, I am of the view that no such grounds have been

prima facie established.

The other ground urged by the party of 1st part -respondent-

respondents is that no exceptional circumstances have been averred in the

application. As the Court has already come to the conclusion that as the

exceptional circumstances have been averred in the petition and this

question too should be gone into at the conclusion. The last ground raised

against the maintainability of the application is that as the party of the 2nd

party -petitioner-petitioner, has other alternative remedies and therefore is

not entitled to maintain the application. The last ground also needs to be

gone into at the conclusion of the argument into the revision application.

Considering all the circumstances relevant to the issuance of the

interim relief, Court considers that the objections raised against the