==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 794 / 2000 F

D.C. Hanbatota No. 18/93 / L

Pemawathie Andaraweera,

No. 18, Dalugahahena,

Kiula, Hungama.

Vs.

Plaintiff

Ariyadasa Andaraweera'

Aluth Ela Road,

Kiula, Hungama.

Defendant

And Now Between

Ariyadasa Andaraweera'

Aluth Ela Road,

Kiula, Hungama.

Dfendant-Appellant

Vs

Pemawathie Andaraweera,

No. 18, Dalugahahena,

Kiula, Hungama.

Plaintiff -Respondent

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

M.S.A. Wadood with Palitha Subasinghe for the Defendant appellant

Gamini Senanayake for the Plaintiff Respondent

23.07.2013

15.10.2013

The Plaintiff Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the Respondent)

has instituted the said action against the Defendant Appellant (hereinafter referred

to as the Appellant) in the District Court of Hambantota seeking for a declaration

that she is entitled to possession of the land described in the schedule to the plaint

as the nominee under and in terms of a land permit bearing No. LL 32353 (P 1).

The Appellant has filed an answer denying the averments contained in the plaint

and praying inter alia for a dismissal of the Respondent's action. The case

proceeded to trial on 11 issues. After trial the learned District Judge has delivered

a judgement in favour of the Respondent. Being aggrieved by the said judgement

dated 25.04.2000 the Appellant has preferred the present appeal to this court.

The Appellant took up the position that his father did not nominate a

successor till his death on 04.02.1992 and the alleged nomination of the

Respondent was fraudulent. The Appellant further averred that since there had

been no nomination of a successor the eldest male child of the Appellant's father

should become the owner of the land in dispute and since the eldest child was not

1I

I I I

J I I

\

1

1 1

I ,

3

claiming the title to the land, the Appellant being the next male child was the

person entitled to succession under the provisions of the Land Development

Ordinance. The learned counsel for the Appellant further contended that the

Respondent has not been legally nominated by the father of the Respondent.

The Appellant has raised issue No.8 challenging the authenticity of

the alleged nomination of the Respondent as the successor to the land in suit.

Hence a burden cast on the Respondent to prove that she had been duly nominated

as the successor to the land in suit by her father. The Land Development Ordinance

No.l9 of 1935 stipulates the procedure in relation to the nomination of a successor.

Section 56 of the said Ordinance reads thus;

56( 1) The nomination of a successor and the cancellation of any such nomination shall be effected by a document substantially in the prescribed form executed and witnessed in triplicate before a Government Agent, or a Registrar of Lands, or a divisional Assistant Government Agent, or a notary, or a Justice of the Peace. (2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall not apply to any nomination or cancellation of

a successor made by last will in the manner hereinafter provided, or to the nomination and cancellation of a successor to a land alienated on a permit made in the manner provided in section 87. (3) A document by which the nomination of a successor or the cancellation of any such

nomination is effected under subsection (1) shall not be deemed to be an instrument affecting land for the purposes of the Registration of Documents Ordinance, nor shall the provisions of Chapter II of that Ordinance apply to any person before whom any such document is executed.

According to Section 60 of the said Ordinance no nomination or

cancellation of the nomination of a successor shall be valid unless the document

(other than a last will) effecting such nomination or cancellation is duly registered

before the date of the death of the owner of the holding or the permit-holder.

At the trial the Respondent has led evidence of Gam Aacharige

Gunadasa and Sauneris Saranasinghe Edirisuriya Patabendige. Gam Aacharige

Gunadasa who gave evidence on behalf of ' J anapada Niladari' has testified that the

I

1

r

4

father of the Respondent who was the permit holder of the land in suit had not

made any request to nominate the Respondent as successor to the land and the

nomination of the Respondent as successor to the land had been made upon a letter

requesting to nominate the Respondent as the successor to the land, sent by the

Grama Niladari, Kiula North. The said official witness has produced the said letter

of the Grama Niladari, Kiula North marked V 2. No doubt that the said procedure

followed in nominating a successor was in violation of Section 56 of the said

Ordinance. Apart from that the Respondent has not adduced any evidence to show

that her nomination had been registered under Section 60 of the Land Development

Ordinance.

It is clear from the said evidence that the Respondent has failed to

prove that her nomination as the successor to the land in dispute had been made

according to the procedure set out in Section 56 and 60 of the Land Development

Ordinance.

In this regard the learned counsel for the Respondent submitted that

since the nomination of the Respondent by the original recipient has not been

challenged in a proper forum by way of a writ the Appellant is precluded in

challenging the said nomination in a District Court.

I am not inclined to agree with the said submission of the learned

counsel. Sections 56 and 60 of the Land Development Ordinance set out a

procedure which should be followed by a permit holder when he wishes to

nominate a successor. Sections 56 and 60 do not represent any administrative act

which should be performed by a government officer. Therefore it is not amenable

to writ jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal and any matter pertaining to the

r

1

.-

5

procedure laid down in Sections 56 and 60 of the Land Development Ordinance

falls within the jurisdiction of a District Court.

Hence I am of the view that the learned District Judge has failed to

adhere to the provisions contained in Sections 56 and 60 of the Land Development

Ordinance. In the said circumstances I dismiss the action of the Respondent and

allow the appeal of the Appellant with costs.

Appeal allowed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

l