==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

Appeal made in terms of Article 138

(1) of the constitution, Sec. 798 of the

Civil Procedure code and Sec. 320 (1)

of the criminal Procedure code of

No.SO of 1979.

C.A. Contempt of Court No. CA1/2008F

Kankanam Pathiranalage

lngal Piyadhasa of No.1/16,

Aluth para,

Madawalamulla,

Galle.

Plaintiff- PETITIONER

Vs.

1. K.P. Lakshmi of No.12/2/B,

Aluth para,

Madawalamulla,

Gall e.

1st defendant Respondent

1

2. Jayantha Siriwardhana,

Aluth para,

Madawalamulla,

Gal le.

Respondent

And

3. Jayantha Siriwardhana,

Aluth para,

Madawalamulla,

Galle.

Respondent Appallent

1. Attorney General,

Attorney General Department,

Hulftsdorp,

Colombo 12.

Respondent

2. Kankanam Pathiranalage

lngal Piyadhasa of No.1/16,

Aluth para,

Madawalamulla,

Galle.

PLAINTIFF-PETITIONER- RESPONDENT

2

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued On

Decided On

P. W. D. C. Jayathilake J.

RESPONDENT

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J

Rohan Sahabandu PC for the

Appallent.

Vikum de Abrew SSC for the 1st Respondent.

18.01.2013

12.06.2013

Ajith Ranjan Weerasooriya licenced surveyor and a court commissioner of

District Court Galle was appointed as the commissioner of partition case

NO : P/15227. He issued notice for the preliminary survey to be done on

06.11.2005. On that day he went to the land with his team of workers and

commenced the survey at about 9.00 a.m. When the plaintiff was pointing

out the boundaries, K.P.Lakshmi the 1st defendant Respondent raised

3

objections, but did not make any obstruction. Then Jayantha Siriwardana

Respondent Appellant who was at a nearby house threatened the

commissioner saying "get out of the land immediately"

Then the surveyor had stopped his survey and returned with his team. He

has submitted P2 in which he reports to the court that the 1st Defendant

opposed to the survey and Appellant threatened him. He has also submitted

the bill of his survey for the day {P3) amounting toRs: 4340.00.

Respondent Appellant and the 1st Defendant Respondent were charged for

contempt of court under section 53{1) of the Partition Act. As the

Commissioner had stated in his evidence that the 1st Defendant did not

obstruct him even though she denied boundaries shown by the plaintiff, the

1st Defendant had been discharged. But the learned Additional District Judge

has convicted the Appellant accepting the evidence of the commissioner

given against him and rejecting the evidence of the 1st Defendant in which

she asserted that Appellant was a mentally and physically weak person. The

reason given for the rejection of that piece of evidence was that it had not

been proved by means of relevant documents such as a medical certificate

according to the section 106 of the Evidence Ordinance.

Several grounds have been raised on behalf of the Appellant Respondent at

the inquiry against the complaint of the commissioner. One of them was

that the commission issued to him was irregular due to the fact that he had

not been authorized to enter the neighboring lands. Therefore the

commissioner was erroneous in executing the survey without getting the

commission papers corrected.

4

The preliminary survey plan which had been completed subsequently had

been marked as Rl. The Commissioner had admitted that the house at

which the Appellant was at the time of the incident was outside the subject

matter according to Rl. lt had been revealed at the inquiry that the

Appellant is the husband of the 1st Defendant Respondent and was 74 years

old at the time of the incident. There was no evidence about any physical

action of the Appellant which caused obstruction to the survey.

If it is presumed that the commissioner had gone for the survey under the

authority given by the District Judge by formal commission papers issued

under section 16 of the partition Act, he should have known that he had the

power to conduct the survey without caring any interruption or disturbance.

Commissioners are authorized by the commission issued to them to enter

the subject matter as well as neighboring lands. As officers who carry out

court's orders they are bound to discharge their duties without hesitation

despite the acts of other persons. Even the commissioner is guilty of

contempt if he fails to execute the commission without any valid reason.

Somindra V. Surasena & Others {2003} 3 SLR 159 is a case decided in 1998. In

that case the 11th Defendant Appellant had been charged for contempt

under Sec.53 {1} (b) of the partition act for obstructing the commissioner by

shifting the chain of the surveyor at the time of the survey. U.DE.Z.

Gunawardena, J. in his Judgment, has stated as follows

"Assuming that the defendant -appellant pulled or slightly shifted an

instrument, that is, the chain of the surveyor, it is such trivial conduct

which would not have actually prevented the survey -if, in fact, the

surveyor had been keen to proceed with it. lt looks as if the surveyor had

5

'W,<,/>W4 ____________ _

been too quick to take offence and that he had obviously left the land in a

huff."

In this case even if the commissioner says that he had the fear of danger of

his life, I am of the opinion that he should not have fallen into that situation

just on the words uttered by a 74 year old person. He is not fit to be a court

commissioner if he is such a weak personality. Generally surveys are

conducted on lands which are subject to disputes among the parties residing

in them. Therefore court commissioners shall not expect a warm welcome to

the land by the parties. On the maturity and the experience of the officer he

should know how to exhibit his impartiality and independence to win the

confidence of the parties.

The relevant provision of Law to charge a person who obstructs the

commissioner is Sec. 53 (1} (b) of the Partition Act.

Sec. 53(1} (b)

"Obstruct or resists any person acting under the authority of the

court or exercising any power conferred on him by this Law."

In order for an act to be act of obstruction for the meaning of above section

the particular act shall necessarily be deliberate. The word resists mean an

action of using force to oppose. Accordingly the mere utterance of some

words does not constitute the offence prescribe by Sec. 53 (1} (b) of the

Partition Act.

6

'

Therefore this court decides that the learned Additional District Judge has

erroneously come to the conclusion that the Respondent Appellant has

committed the offence that he was charged with. This court sets aside the

conviction and the sentence and discharges the Respondent Appellant from

the charge levelled against him.

Conviction and sentence set aside.

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

7