==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A. Application No. 679/09 (Writ)

In the matter of an Application for mandates in the nature of Writs of Certiorari and Mandamus in terms of Article 140 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Muthusamy Dharmaratnam of No. 52/2, Peradeniya Road, Kovilawattte, Katukele, Kandy

Petitioner.

-Vs-

1. Commissioner for National Housing, Housing Division, Ministry of Construction, Engineering Services, Housing and Common Amenities, 2"d Floor," Sethsiripaya", Sri Jayawardanapura Kotte, Battaramulla.

2. Dr. M.S.Jaldeen, 3. Mr. R.W.M.S.B. Rajapakse, 4. Mr. J.M.S. Bandara, 5. Mr. M. Sritharan,

Chairman and Members of the Board of Review constituted under the Ceiling on Housing Property Law.

Respondents.

Before:

Counsel:

Argued on:

Judgment delivered on:

Anil Gooneratne, J

6. T.S. Balasubramaniam,

C/0: No. 36, Sagara Road,

Bambalapitiya, Colombo-04.

Respondent-Respondent

Anil Gooneratne, J &

H.N.J. Perera, J

Ikram Mohamed PC with A.M. Faiz for the Petitioner.

U. Abdul Najeem for the 61h Respondent-Respondent.

13.03.2013

27.05.2013

******

The premises in suit belonged to the ' Selva Vinayagar Kovil' trust of Katukela,

Kandy, was vested in the Commissioner of National Housing in accordance with the

Provisions of the Ceiling on Housing Property Law. Along with the premises in dispute

bearing No. 52/2 Peradeniya Road, Kovilwatta, Kandy, several other premises which

belonged to the above Kovil was also vested as aforesaid. Material furnished indicates

that the vesting was communicated to the trustees by letter of 13.11.1982 (P 1 ). Petitioner

2

alleges that he was in occupation of the premises in dispute since 1986. It is also pleaded

that the 6th Respondent occupied the premises prior to 1986 as tenant and the 6th

respondent had agreed to assign his tenancy rights for Rs. 175,000/- and having accepted

this sum, placed the petitioner in occupation.

The Petitioner seeks a Writ of Certiorari to quash the order of the Commissioner of

National Housing marked PI 0 and P 1 Oa and also an order to quash the Board of Review

order dated 26.08.2009 (Pl7) which confirmed the order of the Commissioner. Board of

Review held; whilst confirming the order of Commissioner, that the Respondent T.S.

Balasubramaniam (6th Respondent) is the tenant of the premises in suit. A writ of

mandamus is sought to compel the Commissioner of national housing to sell and transfer

the premises in dispute to the Petitioner.

It is disclosed in the petition that the 6th respondent placed the Petitioner in occupation of

the premises in question and left for U.K ( per letter P3) and has expressed his

willingness to purchase the premises in question in or about 1999. ( as in P3) but has not

till August 2003 taken any steps to pursue the same with the Commissioner.

It is also pleaded that by P2(plaint) the trustees of the above named Kovil filed action

against the 6th Respondent on the ground of subletting and thereafter withdrawn the

action since the premises was vested as above. In the meanwhile as pleaded in the

3

petition letter P4(23-ll-2001) was addressed by the Commissioner, to the occupier and

requested to forward an application to purchase the premises. Accordingly this being the

case of the petitioner, made an application to purchase the premises and provided

documents to prove his occupation. Vide P5, P5a to P5f. The Commissioner had taken

time to follow up action on petitioners requested to purchase, has informed him to

deposit the amount valued with certain other charges amounting to Rs. 367,850/- (P6).

The Petitioner deposited the said sum ( vide P7). However by notice P8 both the

Petitioner and the Attorney of the 6th respondent was called for an inquiry, by the

Commissioner. Having inquired into the question of tenancy ( as pleaded in paras 12, 13

and 14 of the petition and the corresponding averments of the affidavit) the

Commissioner of National Housing made order by PIO and PIOa that the 6th Respondent

is the tenant to whom the offer was made to purchase the premises in dispute and to

refund the sum ofRs. 367,850/- to the Petitioner.

It was urged on behalf of the petitioner the several grounds pleaded in para 14 of the

petition to contest the above order PIO and P10a of the Commissioner of National

Housing, and the grounds urged in para 18 to challenge the order of the board of Review

marked P17.

We have considered the case of both parties. On behalf of the 6th Respondent , the

following maters were inter alia urged;

4

a) Respondent being an employee of the Hatton National bank, Kandy had resided

with his family for over 40 years in the rented premises.

b) Petitioner was occupying an adjoining premises and the 6th respondent permitted

the petitioner to utilize part of his premises to store some commodities.

c) 6th Respondent left for U.K in or about 1999. Respondent only handed over the

premises to the petitioner for safe custody during his absence.

d) By documents 6Rl & P3 the 6th respondent establish the fact that by letter of

26.07.1999 application to purchase the property in dispute was made to the

Commissioner, and he could not follow up action.

e) Based on document PS and P5e the Commissioner of National Housing

believing same to be bona fide documents at the initial stages decided to sell the

premises to the petitioner.

f) 6th Respondent communicated by 6R2 of September 2003 and demonstrated that

document P5e was a bogus or fraudulent document which was never signed by

6th Respondent. As such by P8 Commissioner summoned both parties for an

inquiry and came to the conclusion as in PI 0 and P lOa.

We have considered the case of either party. Even on the hearing date learned counsel for

the Petitioner did not seriously contest original tenancy of the 6th respondent. It was his

position that the 6th respondent was a non-occupying tenant, and due to 6th respondent

absence from Sri Lanka the Commissioner earlier decision to sell the premises to the

Petitioner is the correct decision. The Commissioner of National Housing after inquiry

made order as in document PIOa and has carefully analyzed all facts and circumstances,

5

and accepted the tenancy of the 6

1h respondent. We cannot find any flow in the inquiry

procedure and the decision of the Commissioner in PI 0 and PI Oa.

Section I2(2) ofthe Ceiling on Housing Property Law reads thus:

Any house vested in the Commissioner under this Law shall, if the Commissioner

proposes to sell such house, be offered for sale, in the first instance, to the tenant, if any,

of such house, and where the tenant does not accept such offer, the Commissioner may

sell such house to any other person. Where any house vested in the Commissioner is at

the time of vesting not let to a tenant, the Commissioner may sell such house to any

person.

The 61h Respondent being the original tenant lawfully exercised his right to purchase the

rented premises. Absence from the country for a period of time cannot preclude him from

applying to purchase the premises in dispute and any other like the petitioner, cannot

take undue advantage when the rights of the genuine tenant is asserted or where the

tenant exercise his statutory right to purchase as in Sec. I2(2) above.

In Thurairajah Vs Bibile .... 1992 SLR Vol I pg. 116-119 held .....

"The Ceiling on Housing Property Law. No. of I973 requires that eligibility to

purchase an excess house from the Commissioner is founded on a tenancy with the

owner. A sub-tenant does not have priority over the tenant whose prior claim is

statutorily recognized under section 12(2) of the Law. "

6

The Board of Review has very carefully affirmed the orders of the Commissioner of

National Housing ( PI 7).This Court does not wish to interfere with such orders of the

Commissioner and the Board of Review. As such we dismiss this application without

costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

H.N.J.Perera, J

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Kpm/-

7