==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A. 628/98 (F) C.A. 628A/98 (F) D.C. Kalutara Case No: 5152/P

Mohomed Hashim Mohomed Jifser No: 35, Snapulla Road, Gardhanagar.

Complainant - Vs- Mohomed Naseem Mohomed Nawari No:29, Snapulla Road, Gardhanagar. And Others

Respondents

•

C.A. 628/98 IF)

C.A. 628A/98 (F)

Before

Counsel

Argued &

D.C. Kalutara Case No: 5152/P

K.T. Chitrasiri,J.

Sabry Nilandeen for the 11th and 14th defendant-Appellants in C.A. 628/98 and for the 11th and 14th Defendant-Respondents in C.A. 628/98A

H. Withanachchi for the 2nd and 3A Defendant-Appellants in C.A. 628/98A and for the 2nd and 3A defendant-Respondents inn C .. A. 628/98(F)

M.U.M.Ali Sabry,P.C. with Sanjeewa Dasanayake for the Plaintiff-Respondent in both C.A. 628/98 and C.A. 628/98A

Decided on 12.02.2014

********

K.T. Chitrasiri,J.

Heard all three Counsel in support of their respective cases.

These two appeals have been filed seeking to set aside the judgment

delivered on 14.08.1998 of the learned District Judge of Kalutara. By that

judgment, an order had been made allotting 1 18 share to the plaintiff and

the balance 7 I 8 shares to the 1 st Defendant -Responden t of the land

sought to be partitioned having accepted virtually the pedigree of the

1

I

II

fII i f! )

~

!t! r! !i !IIIIiIr

\

I i

j ,

J

plaintiff-respondent. Being aggrieved by the said decision of the learned

District Judge, these two appeals have been filed seeking to set aside the

impugned judgment in addition to the other reliefs prayed for in the two

petitions of appeal.

At this stage it is necessary to note that nothing has been looked at

by the learned District Judge as to the matters raised in the statements of

claim filed by the defendants including that of the appellants. Learned

Judge has merely stated that the issues of the defendants will not arise

despite the fact that some of those have come up with completely a

different pedigree. Accordingly, no shares were given to any of the

defendants in the judgment not having addressed to their claims.

At this stage, it is brought to the notice of Court that the

learned District Judge has not looked at the evidence adduced on behalf

of the 9th to 16th Defendants though they have raised issues bearing Nos.

18 to 31 relying upon a pedigree [as shown in their statements of claim]

completely different to the pedigree of the plaintiff. Learned District

Judge has not even answered those issues. Instead she has merely stated

that those will not arise. Learned District Judge, being the person who is

given the task of investigating title of each and every party to a partition

action in terms of Section 25 of the Partition Act, should not have

answered those issues of the 9th to 16th defendants in that manner

particularly when they have produced even the deeds alleged to have

2

executed in connection with the land sought to be partitioned to establish

their rights. Learned Counsel for the 11th to 14th defendant-appellants

submits that the deeds marked 13V1 to 13V5 refers to a land in extent of

three acres in which the name of the land referred to in the deeds

produced by the 9th-16th defendant-respondents as well as the plaintiff

also appears. Nothing is found in the judgment as to the consideration of

those matters submitted by the learned Counsel for the appellants.

Therefore on the face of the record, learned District Judge seems to

have misdirected herself; particularly when it comes to the claim of the

9th-16th Defendants. In the circumstances, Counsel for the 11th to 14th

defendant-appellants submits that the learned District Judge has not

evaluated the evidence led, along with the matters contained in the deeds

produced particularly on behalf of the 9th to 16th defendants.

Having considered the above matters all three Counsel appearing

for the two sets of appellants as well as the respondent agree to have this

matter remitted back to the District Court for a trial de novo.

It is difficult for this Court too, to consider such an issue without

hearing the evidence of the respective parties since it involves a large

amount of facts of the case. Accordingly, this case is to be remitted back

to the District Court of Kalutara for re-trial enabling the trial judge to act

in terms of Section 25 of the Partition Act and accordingly to investigate

title of all the parties to the action.

3

, t

1

For the aforesaid reasons, the judgment delivered on 14.08.1998 of

the learned District Judge of Kalutara is set aside. This case is to be sent

back to the District Court of Kalutara for re-trial. Both appeals are

allowed. No costs.

Appeals allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Jmrj-

4