==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRILANKA

CA 1330/96 F

DC Galle 7445/P

Before; A W A Salam, J

THAWALAMA GAMAGE BABY

NONA,

BAN GALAWATTA ,

MABOTUW ANA,

WANDURAMBA

4TH DEFENDANT APPELLANT

VS

MABOTUWANA WITHANAGE

JOHN, MABOTWANA PLAINTFF-

RESPONDENT AND OTHERS

Counsel: Athula Perera with Priyantha Ananda for 3rd defendant-

respondent and N R M Daluwatta PC with Mala Maitipe for 4th

plaintiff-respondent.

Argued On: 12.07.2011

Written Submissions tendered on: 27.10.2011

Decided: 24.04.2012

CA 1330/96 F DC Galle 7445/ P page 1

A W Abdus Salam, J

This is an action to partition the land depicted in preliminary plan

No 374 dated 01.09.1983 made by Gamini Nihal Amarasingha,

Licensed Surveyor produced marked as "X" at the trial.

Exclusions were sought by 3rd and 4th defendants in their

statements of claim of Lots C and B respectively, depicted in plan

"X" based on the premise that they did not form part of the corpus.

When the matter was taken up for trial on 30.5.1986, the parties

agreed to have the said lots B and C excluded from the corpus.

Thereafter the plaintiff and the 2nd defendant gave evidence at the

trial and concluded their cases. Accordingly, judgment was

delivered on the same day, thus confming the partition action to

lots A and B depicted in plan X. In the judgment, undivided shares

were allotted to the plaintiff and the 1 st defendant in the proportion

of 79:70. The interlocutory decree entered was registered at the

land registry under Volume H 60/202.

Subsequently, the plaintiff filed a motion on 4.7.1988 and moved

that the proceedings dated 30.5.1988 be expunged, the

interlocutory decree entered on the same day be vacated and the

case be set down for trial afresh.

The district Judge having considered the motion on 9.1.1989 (nearly

2 1/2 years after the interlocutory decree) vacated the judgment

and interlocutory decree dated 30.5.1986. The 3rd defendant

thereafter amended the statement of claim and took out a

CA 1330/96 F DC Galle 7445/ P page 2

commission to show the lots to be excluded by way of a

superimposition of the title plan, on plan x.

Finally, the district judge who succeeded the judge who vacated the

judgment and interlocutory decree embarked upon a fresh

investigation of title and entered judgment and interlocutory decree

identifying the corpus as lots AI, B and D in the preliminary plan

(as superimposed) and allotted shares to the plaintiff, 1 st defendant

and 2nd defendant in the proportion of 16:2:20 shares respectively

and kept 2 shares unallotted.

Later, the 4th defendant filed a petition supported by an affidavit

moving that the order vacating the judgment and interlocutory

decree entered initially be set aside and the judgment and

interlocutory decree entered for the second time be vacated on the

ground that court had no jurisdiction to vacate its own judgment

and in any event the 4th defendant had no notice of the application

made by the plaintiff to have the proceedings expunged and

judgment and interlocutory decree vacated. The learned district

judge by order dated 2.10.1996 refused the application of the 4th

defendant based on premise that the initial judgment and

interlocutory decree had been vacated after notice of motion filed by

the plaintiff given to the Attorney-At-Law of the 4th defendant by

registered post. This appeal has been preferred by the 4th

defendant-appellant to have the said order of the learned district

judge set aside.

CA 1330/96 F DC Galle 7445/ P page 3

As has been rightly contended by the learned president's counsel

on behalf of the 4th defendant-appellant, two matters arise for

consideration. The basic question is whether the court had

jurisdiction to vacate its own judgment, and if not, whether the

vacation of its own judgment is ultra vires.

This being a partition action the elementary question of law that

needs to be focused at the outset is the conclusive effect and

fmality attached to a judgment and interlocutory decree entered

under section 26 of the Partition Law, No 21 of 1977 as amended.

In terms· of section 48(5) of the Partition Law the interlocutory

decree entered, shall not have the final and conclusive effect

conferred on it by section 48 (1) as against a person who, not

having been a party to the partition action, claims any right, title or

interest to or in the land or any portion of the land to which the

decree relates as is not directly or remotely derived from the decree,

if, he proves that the decree has been entered by a court without

competent jurisdiction. As such the plaintiff- appellant does not fall

under the category of persons enumerated under subsection 5 of

section 48 nor does the court comes under the category of being

devoid of competent jurisdiction.

In terms of Section 48 (4) of the Partition Law a party to a partition

suit not served with summons, or a minor or a person of unsound

mind, not represented by a guardian ad litem, or a party who has

duly filed his statement of claim and registered his address, fails to

CA 1330/96 F DC Galle 7445/ P page 4

appear at the trial, and in consequence thereof the right, title or

interest of such party in the subject-matter of the action has been

extinguished or otherwise prejudiced such party may, on or before

the date flxed for the consideration of the scheme of'partition under

section 35 or at any time not later than 30 days after the return of

the commission for the sale under section 42 is received by court,

apply to the court for special leave to establish the right, title or

interest of such party to or in the said land notwithstanding the

interlocutory decree already entered. The plaintiff-appellant

without doubt does not fall into any other category of persons

mentioned in section 48 (4) either.

Quite signiflcantly, no appeal has been preferred under section 48

(l)against the original judgment and ID. Remarkably, the plaintiff-

respondent has not flied his motion under the provisions of section

48 (4) of the partition law but on the footing that the terms of

settlement to exclude lots B and C had been mistakenly entered

into. Taking into consideration the inordinate delay in flling the

motion of the plaintiff-respondent, it is abundantly clear that the

plaintiff-respondent and the 1st defendant-respondent have

incontestably conceded the flnality and conclusiveness of the

interlocutory decree.

In this respect, it is useful to apply the principle Expressio unius

est exclusion alterius (the express mention of one thing excludes

others). In other words this principle means that items not on the

list are assumed not to be covered by the Statute. The same

principle is also expressed in a different manner with sound

CA 1330/96 F DC Galle 7445/ P page 5

reasoning and logic by the expression inclusio unius est exclusio

alterius which means that inclusion of one is the exclusion of

another.

The principles of law relating to interpretation of Statutes referred

to above are demonstrative of the position that the plaintiff-

respondent's motion falls totally outside the purview of section

48(4) and (5) of the Partition Law. In the circumstances, the relief

sought by the plaintiff-respondent in the motion could not have

been granted by the learned district judge. Hence, not only the

impugned order has been made without jurisdiction but all such

other steps taken after the impugned order are of no avail or force

in law.

The importance of adhering to the terms of settlement has been

emphasized in the case of Sinna Veloo VS. MIS Lipton Ltd 1963-66

NLR 214 where Herath J. held that once the terms of settlement

entered upon and recorded by court, a party cannot resile from the

settlement even though the decree has not yet been entered.

The general principle of law does not permit an appellate court to

interfere lightly with a settlement entered into by the parties and

notified to court. The rationale behind this has been expressed by

West J. in the case of Balprasad vs Dhamidhar Sakhram which is

printed as a footnote to the case of Shirekulidima's Pa's Hedga vs

Blya 1886 10 Bombay 435. The said foot note is referred to by

Nagalingam,J in Perera vs Perera 50 NLR 81. For easy reference the

said foot note is reproduced below ..

CA 1330/96 F DC Galle 7445/ P page 6

"The admission of a power to vary the requirements of a decree

once passed would introduce uncertainty and confusion. No one's

rights would at any stage be so established that they could be

depended on and the court would be overwhelmed with

applications for the modification on equitable principles of orders

made on a full consideration of the cases which they are meant to

terminate. It is obvious that such a state of things would not be far

removed from a state of judicial chaos".

In the case of Gunasekara Vs Leelawathie Sri Kantha Law Report

Vol 5 Page 86, it was held that a compromise decree is but with

the command of a judge superseded it. It can therefore be set aside

on any of the grounds, such as fraud, mistake, misrepresentation

etc., on which a contract may be set aside. The plaintiff-respondent

has not sought to prove any such ingredients to avoid the terms of

settlement.

The next question that arises for consideration is whether the 4th

defendant-appellant has been notified of the motion filed by the

plaintiff-respondent seeking the vacation of the judgment and

interlocutory decree. A perusal of the motion (2nd page) indicates

that there are three attorneys-at-law on record who are entitled to

receive notice of the motion. According to the endorsement made

against the names of the said attorneys that law only one

registered articles receipt number has been mentioned. That is the

registered article receipt No 1681. As has been submitted by the

learned President's counsel, it is practically impossible to deliver a

notice enclosed in one envelope to three different attorneys-at-law.

CA 1330/96 F DC Galle 7445/ P page 7

It is a matter of record that the learned district judge on 9.1. 1989

(page 116 of the brief) has not taken the trouble to verify as to

whether all those who are affected/whose rights are prejudiced by

the motion have received notice. Had this been properly done, the

4th defendant-appellant may not have had to invoke the appellate

jurisdiction of this court to espouse his cause.

The 4th defendant-appellant is attacking the impugned order inter

alia on the failure to serve notice of the motion on him as the court

had no jurisdiction to act on such a motion, even if it was entitled

to vacate the judgment and ID. It is trite law that where the want

of jurisdiction is patent, objection to jurisdiction may be taken at

any time. In such a case it is in fact the duty of the Court itself ex

mero motu to raise the point even if the parties fail to do-so.

In Farquharson v. Morgan 1[70 Law Time 152 at 153] Halsbury L.C.

said, " It has long since been held that where the objection to the

jurisdiction of an inferior court appears upon the face of the record,

it is immaterial how the matter is brought before the Superior

Court, for the Superior Court must interfere to protect the

prerogative of the Crown by prohibiting the inferior court from

exceeding its jurisdiction. In the same case, Lopes L.J. said, " The

reason why, notwithstanding such acquiescence, a prohibition is

granted where the want of jurisdiction is apparent on the face of

the proceedings is explained by Lord Denman (6 N. & M. 176) to be

for the sake of the public, because 'the case might be a precedent if

allowed to stand without impeachment and I would add for myself,

because it is a want of jurisdiction which the court is informed by

CA 1330/96 F DC Galle 7445/ P page 8

the proceedings before it, . and which the judge should have

observed, and a point which he should himself have taken. " ---"

re-quoted from W. Robison Fernando Vs Henrietta Fernando, 74

NLR57

In Ittapana v. Hemawathie 1981 1 Sri L. R. 476, it was held by the

Supreme Court held that the failure to serve summons is one

which goes to the root of the jurisdiction of the court which means

that if the defendant is not served with summons or otherwise

notified of the proceedings against him, the judgment entered in

such circumstances is a nullity and the persons affected by the

proceedings can apply to have the proceedings set aside ex debito

justitiae. See also Sithy Maleeha v. Nihal Ignatius Perera and

Others 1994 3 SLR 270 (Emphasis is mine)

In the instant case the 4th defendant-appellant has taken up the

position that he was not served with notice of the proceedings

which culminated in the judgment and interlocutory decree having

been set aside and a fresh jUdgment and interlocutory decree

substituted in that place.

In the attendant circumstances, I am of the opinion that it is the

duty of this court to set aside the impugned order and expunge all

subsequent proceedings taken by the learned district judge so as to

give effect to the fIrst judgment and the interlocutory decree that

followed.

CA 1330/96 F DC Galle 7445/ P page 9

As the plaintiff-respondent has failed to give notice to the appellant

of the motion which in actual fact had led to the present appeal,

the appellant is entitled to recover costs of this appeal from the

plaintiff-respondent fIxed at Rs. 25000/-.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Kwk/-

CA 1330/96 F DC Galle 7445/ P page 10