==== BLOCKS ==== 

i

J

\"

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL

OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

U.G.Wimalawathie

No.488/1, Thimbirigasyaya Road,

Colomb 0 05.

Defendant-Appellant

CA. Appeal No.293/98(F) Vs.

D.CColombo No.6333/RE A.V.Gunawardane

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

K.T.Chitrasiri,J

475/10, Thimbirigasyaya Road,

Colombo 05.

Plaintiff-Respondent

K.T.Chitrasiri, J

Wijedasa Rajapaskse PC with Dasun Nagashena and Rajitha Rajapakse for

the Defendant-Appellant

B.O.P.Jayawardena for the Plaintiff-Respondent

30.08.2013

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the judgment dated 30.04.1998 of the learned

Additional District Judge of Colombo. The original plaintiff (hereinafter referred to as the

plaintiff) filed this action inter alia to have the defendant evicted from the premises referred to

IIlIf !

~ ! I i

2

in the schedule to the plaint. In the amended plaint dated 09.05.1994, the plaintiff has shown

two causes of action against the defendant-appellant (hereinafter referred to as the defendant)

and it is the basis upon which this action has been instituted. The issues ofthe plaintiff also had

been suggested on the basis of those two causes of action. Those issues are directed to have

the defendant ejected from the premises in suit on the basis of:

~ arrears of rent; and

~ for causing damages which would amount to deteriorate the premises in suit.

Learned District Judge dismissed the case filed, relying on the cause of action alleged to

have arisen on the basis of arrears of rent. No appeal has been preferred to challenge the said

dismissal of the action filed on the basis of arrears of rent. However, the learned District Judge

has decided the case filed on the basis of deterioration caused by the defendant to the

premises in question, in favour of the plaintiff. Accordingly, the defendant is to be evicted from

the premises in suit. Being aggrieved by the said decision of the learned trial judge, the

defendant filed this appeal to have it set aside.

The cause of action alleged to have arisen to the plaintiff on the basis of deterioration

caused to the premises has been raised in the issues bearing Nos.3, 4 and 5. In those issues, it is

clearly mentioned that the second cause of action alleged to have arisen to the plaintiff is on

the basis of deterioration of the premises due to the acts of the defendant. It is morefully

described in paragraph 5 of the amended plaint as well. In that paragraph 5, the manner in

which the defendant alleged to have caused damages to the premises is described in detail.

Learned District Judge has clearly identified the provision in law namely Section 22(1) (d) of the

I, I

\ t I

3

Rent Act No.7 of 1972 that is applicable in this instance and he at the outset has also referred to

this Section in his judgment. Applicability of the provisions contained in the Rent Act to this

action has not been disputed. Hence, there is no dispute as to the applicability of the Section

22(1) (d) of the Rent Act No.7 of 1972 in this instance since the cause of action pleaded by the

plaintiff is directly on that provision of law.

Section 22(1) (d) ofthe Rent Act NO.7 of 1972 reads thus:

"the tenant or any person residing or lodging with him or being his

subtenant has, in the opinion of the Court, been guilty of conduct

which is a nuisance to adjoining occupiers or has been convicted of

using the premises for an immoral or illegal purpose, or the

condition 0/ the premises has, in the opinion 0/ the court,

deteriorated owing to acts committed by or to neglect or de/ault

0/ the tenant or any such person;"

(emphasis added)

The aforesaid Section allows to have a defendant ejected, if the court in its opinion

decides that the condition of the premises has deteriorated owing to the acts committed by

........... the defendant-tenant or any such person.

Therefore, it is the burden of a plaintiff who seeks to have a tenant evicted from

tenanted premises on the basis of deterioration caused to the premises, to establish that the

premise in suit has become deteriorated owing to the acts of the defendant. Learned

4

President's Counsel for the appellants submits that there is not an iota of evidence is found to

establish that there had been deterioration of the premises due to the acts of the defendant in

this case. learned Counsel for the plaintiff-respondent submits that there is evidence to show

that the defendant has effected numerous changes to the premises that includes structural

changes as well. His contention is that those changes alone would amount to deterioration of

the premises.

A tenant can be ejected on the basis of Section 22(1) (d) of the Rent Act No.7 of 1972,

only upon establishing the premises in suit becoming deteriorated owing to the acts of the

defendant. Therefore, establishing deterioration of the premises is a sine qua non in such a

situation. Deterioration means the condition becoming worse or decay than what it was.

In order to prove this requirement the plaintiff has called an engineer by the name of

Ranjith Tissa Madanayake. In his evidence, he has stated the way in which the changes to the

premises had been effected. [vide proceedings at pages 113 and 114 of the appeal brief] As

pointed out by the learned President's Counsel, he has not said anything as to the premises

becoming deteriorated owing to the effected changes that he has spoken of. Not even a

question been posed to him making a suggestion to that effect.

Even the plaintiff has not come out with the aspect of deterioration though she was

elaborating on the changes effected to the premises by the defendant. [vide proceedings in

pages 141 and 142 of the appeal brief] In short, the plaintiff has failed to present any material

to show that the premises became deteriorated due to the acts of the defendant. On the other

hand, the defendant in her evidence has stated that the changes referred to by the witnesses of

5

the plaintiff have been effected only after having obtained permission from the Rent Control

Board made in the application bearing NO.189S2 marked VS. [Vide proceedings to the page

154] Obtaining permission from the Rent Control Board to effect changes to the premises in

suit has not been disputed even by the plaintiff.

Contention of the learned Counsel for the plaintiff-respondent is that the changes

effected to the premises in suit would amount to deterioration of the premises. As I have

mentioned hereinbefore, deterioration means the condition becoming worse or decay. In this

connection, I also wish to refer to the case of Musthapa Thamby lebee vs Ruwanpathirana.

[1988 (1) SLR page 186] In that decision, Thabiah J, agreeing with Ranasinghe C J and

Seneviratne J held thus:

"To obtain ejectment on the ground of deterioration of the premises as

contemplated in 5.22 (l)(d) of the Rent Act the acts complained 0/ must

cause some damage to the premises let and thereby worsen its

condition. Demolition of the bucket latrine and construction of a water-

sealed latrine cannot be said to cause a deterioration of the condition of

the premises let. What the tenant did was to effect a useful improvement

which would serve a useful purpose and this rendered the property more

valuable. 1/

[emphasis added]

In the said decision, 4th edition of the book titled "Landlord and Tenant in South Africa"

by Wille, had also been quoted and I reproduce the same for convenience.

6

"A necessary improvement is one which is necessary for the protection or preservation of

the leased property. The other forms of improvements are divided by authorities into

useful improvements, namely, those which improve the property or add to its value and

luxurious improvements such as statutory" [page 265J

Indeed, the changes that had been effected by the defendant to the premises in suit in

this instance may probably have added more value to the property. In the circumstances, it is

my view that the plaintiff has failed to establish that the condition of the premises in suit was

made to deteriorate owing to the acts of the defendant. Learned District Judge has not address

his mind to the matters referred to above on those lines when he decided the issue No.3

affirmatively. His conclusions are on the basis that the changes effected in whatever the form

would amount to deterioration of the premises. It is where the learned District Judge has

misdirected himself.

For the aforesaid reasons, I allow the appeal with costs. The judgment of the

learned District Judge dated 30.4.1998 is set aside. Accordingly, I make order dismissing the

plaint of the plaintiff. Learned District Judge is directed to enter decree accordingly.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

KLP/-

I I

\ • f