==== BLOCKS ==== 

1 .1

\

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 1116/2000 F

D.C. Galle No. 11149/ L

Hewawasam Patuwatha Badaturuge Gnanatilake, Kuamarakanda, Dodanduwa.

Plaintiff

Vs.

1. Peduru Hewage Simon Silva, 2. Peduru Hewage Nihal, Both of Kumarakanda, Dodanduwa.

Defendant

AND NOW BETWEEN

Hewawasam Patuwatha Badaturuge Gnanatilake, Kuamarakanda, Dodanduwa. Battaramulla.

Plaintiff Appellant

Vs

1. Peduru Hewage Simon Silva, 2. Peduru Hewage Nihal, Both of Kumarakanda, Dodanduwa.

Defendant Respondents

,

BEFORE

COUNSELS

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

Plaintiff Appellant- Absent and unrepresented

Defendant Respondents- Absent and

unrepresented

22.05.2012

The Plaintiff Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant)

instituted the said action against the Defendant Respondents (hereinafter referred

to as the Respondents) in the District Court of Galle seeking a declaration of title to

the land described in the Plaint.

The Respondents filed answer denying the averments contained in the

plaint and prayed for a declaration of title to the land described in the answer. The

case proceeded to trial upon 13 issues. After trial, the learned Additional District

Judge dismissed the action of the Appellant. Being aggrieved by the said judgment

dated 28.01.2000 the Appellant has preferred the present appeal to this court.

The Appellant has set out several grounds of appeal in paragraph 13

of the petition of appeal. His main grievance was that the learned trial judge has

failed to evaluate the evidence of the case.

~ t I! t I I i ! I I r ,. I l I !

~ ,

3

I have carefully considered the impugned judgment of the learned

Additional District Judge. The learned Trial Judge was of the view that the

Appellant has failed to prove the case on a balance of probability. When I consider

the evidence of this case it seems to me that the learned trial judge has come to a

right conclusion after going through the evidence led before court.

In the said circumstances I see no reason to interfere with the

judgement of the learned Additional District Judge dated 28.01.2000. Therefore I

dismiss the appeal of the Appellant without costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

,

I I f, I I ! ,

I II

t f