==== BLOCKS ==== 

..

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C. A No. 25011997 (F) D.C. Kurunegala No. 3376/P

1.

2.

K. A. Jayasekera of Maharachimulla, Alawwa.

PLAINTIFF

Vs.

1. K. A. Gunasekera Appuhamy of Meewewa, Kongahakotuwa, Kalugamuwa.

2. K. A. Nandasena of Maharachimulla, Alawwa.

DEFENDANTS

And

K. A. Jayasekera of Maharachimulla, Alawwa.

PLAINTIFF -APPELLANT

Vs.

K. A. Gunasekera Appuhamy of Meewewa, Kongahakotuwa, Kalugamuwa.

K. A. Nandasena of Maharachimulla, Alawwa.

DEFENDANTS-RESPONDENTS

K. A. Jayasekera of Maharachimulla, Alawwa. (deceased)

PLAINTIFF -APPELLANT

f I

t !

i i ! I

r ! I I II

~

'"

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

1. W. M. F. Princess Fernando 2. K. A. S. R. Jayasekara 3. K. A. A. W. Jayasekara 4. K. A. S. N. Jayasekara

All of Maharachchimulla, Alawwa.

Parties sought to be substituted as

lA2 IB2 lC2 ID PLAINTIFF-APPELLANT -PETITIONERS

Vs.

1. K. A. Gunasekera Appuhamy of Meewewa, Kongahakotuwa, Kalugamuwa.

2. K. A. Nandasena of Maharachimulla, Alawwa.

DEFENDANTS-RESPONDENTS

Anil Gooneratne J.

Jacob Joseph with Sandamali Somarathne and S. Senanayake for the

lA, IB. lC & ID Plaintiff- Appellants

N.M. Reyaz for the 2nd Defendant-Respondent

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON: 23.09.2011 - Defendant-Respondent 30.09.2011 - lA, IB, lC & 10 Substituted-Plaintiff-Appellants

ARGUED ON: 25.08.2011

DECIDED ON: 14.10.2011

2

I j l I , I [ ! I i

I I , ! I I \ ! ! I I l I i I I ,

I

~ I f I I! ! I I {

3

GOONERA TNE J.

This was a partition suit filed in the District Court of

Kurunegala. The subject matter or the corpus was admitted and 7 points of

contests were raised. The proceedings of 24.2.1997 indicates that there was

no contest between the parties and both parties agreed to lead only the

evidence of Plaintiff and signed the record accepting the decree of court.

Land in question is called Medawattehena. According to the plaint and

evidence led suggest that the original owner was one Peiris Appuhamy. The

said Peiris Appuhamy as in paragraph 3 of the plaint by deed No 383 of

12.7.1927 transferred and sold the land to K.A.Gunasekera Appuhamy.

Evidence was led on this fact but it is recorded that Plaintiff could not trace

the deed No. 383. (e;)® OO~e> ®C) @(%)CO) CS)l;B>®C) @eD)5)l;6) ~eD»). By deed P2

of 27.10.1966 said Gunasekera Appuhamy transferred the land to the

Plaintiff, which rights he acquired from above deed No. 383. Plaintiffs

father is Gunasekera Appuhamy. His father had by deed P2 transferred 1

acre to Plaintiff.

In his evidence Plaintiff states his father has by deed No. 383

acquired 1/4 share from the land in question and however the father

transferred 1 acre to Plaintiff. In evidence Plaintiff admits that his father

could only have transferred what he had acquired from deed No. 383. Two

4

other deeds 2V 1 & 2V2 had been marked at the trial through the Plaintiff.

By 2Vl of 24.9.1960 Peiris Appuhamy transferred the balance Y2 share to

Gunapala. Both Gunapala and Peiris Appuhamy together by 2V2 transferred

to the 2nd Defendant the Y2 share. (CSJfmo)@ COO) sad er~cs»® e~e~e)))@)

~Cl)t5;}e) CSJfmo)@C) Sad ~CS)®eCS)es5 eratS) ~ Y2 Cl) e OC2Je) Q@)CS)

1960.12.17 ~ei)tS) eroCl) 10365 ~o~ 2 E) 2 ~o~ (i)~ee)es5 2 E)oitS)OOl;

~edeDC) ee)o) ~es5ei»).

Plaintiff in his evidence suggest the following share allocation.

Plaintiff Y4 unalotted Y4 2nd Defendant 1/2.

In the petition of appeal and in the submission to this court the learned

counsel for Appellant stressed the following:

(a) The plaintiff begs to produce marked x 1 the deed bearing No.3 83 aforesaid, deed

833 marked x2 and deed 2311 marked x3 and deed No. 10190 as x4 and moves Court to

admit and receive the said deeds marked xl, x2 and x3 in evidence under Section 773 of

the Civil Procedure Code and Article 139(2) of the Constitution of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

(b) The plaintiff states that he obtained the relevant title deeds bearing Nos. 383 dated

12.7.1927 attested by E.E.G. Daniels, N.P and 833 dated 12.3.1947 attested by D.A.A

Seneviratne, N.P only on 28.2.1977 after the trial in the above case. The plaintiff also

obtained a certified copy of the deed bearing No. 2311 attested by D.T.S. Goonatilleka,

N.P on 5.6.1946 only on 27.3.1997.

5

(c) According to the deed bearing No. 383 K.A Punchirala the grand father of the

plaintiff has transferred title to the said land to K.A. Gunasekera Appuhamy the 1 st

defendant, the father of the plaintiff.

(d) By the deed bearing No. 383 the 1st defendant has received about l;4

share of the said land from the said K.L. Punchirala.

Under deed bearing No. 2311 K.L. Peiris Appuhamy and the said K.L.Appuhamy

have received from Mudiyanselage Ukkuhamy undivided 12 share of the land in suit.

The 1st defendant also received under deed bearing No. 833 dated 12.3.47

from the aforesaid K.L.Appuhamy another (1/4) one quarter share of the said land.

The said K.L.Peiris Appuhamy has transferred his l;4 share of the said land to

K.L.Gunapala by deed No. 10190 marked 2Dl.

The said K.L.Peiris Appuhamy and K.L.Gunapala have transferred an undivided

12 share of the said land to the 2nd defendant by deed bearing No. 10365 dated 27.1 0.1960

marked 2D2.

Learned counsel for Respondent objected to the submissions set

out above by learned Counsel for Appellant and drew the attention of this

court to the settlement between parties entered in the District Court on

24.2.1997 and submitted that there is finality in view of the said settlement.

Learned counsel vehemently objected to a fresh trial and cited the case of

Beatrice Dep vs Lalani Meemaduma 1997(3) S.L.R 379 and stressed that the

requirements in the above case are not satisfied. In the said case it was held:

6

(1) It must be shown that the evidence could not have been obtained with reasonable

diligence for use at the trial.

(2) Evidence must be such that if given it would probably have an important

influence on the result of the case, although it need not be decisive.

(3) The evidence must be such as is presumable to be believed or in other words it

must be apparently credible although it need not be incontrovertible.

(Ratwatte vs. Bandara 70 N.L.R 231 & Ladd Vs. Marshall followed)

Learned counsel for Respondent also submitted that even if the deeds

referred to above are permitted to be led in evidence his share if at all would

be 511 i h share of the land in dispute.

I have taken note of the following which have been highlighted

in the written submissions of 2nd Defendant-Respondent.

(a) Record does not show that Plaintiff-Appellant applied for certified copies of

deeds or that he made an application to the District Court and was refused.

(b) The District Judge proceeded to trial an agreement reached by parties. Both

parties represented by counsel.

(c) Already contested issues should not be re-highlighted. There has to be finality.

(d) Trial Judge has investigated title. Duty to investigate title does not precede the

parties objection to prove their title. In this regard the following authorities are

cited.

Faleel vs. Argeen 2004 (1) SLR 48 per Weerasuriya J. PICA stated at page 51 ....

Therefore, the principle laid down in Kumarihamy v Weeragama (supra) which

was a full bench decision, has to be reiterated, namely that after investigation of

title and having being satisfied that the parties before it alone have interests in the

land to be partitioned there is nothing to prevent the court allowing parties to

compromise their dispute.

7

Thilagaratnam v. Athpunathan 1996 (2) SLR 66 Anandacoomaraswamy J. at pg. 68 ....

We are not unmindful of these authorities and the proposition that it is the duty of

the Court to investigate title in a partition action, but the Court can do so only

within the limits of pleadings, admissions, points of contest, evidence both

documentary and oral. Court cannot go on a voyage of discovery tracing the title

and finding the shares in the corpus for them otherwise parties will tender their

pleadings and expect the Court to do their work and their Attorney-at-Law's work

for them to get title to those shares in the corpus.

(e) Re-trial would cause grave prejudice to 2nd Defendant-Respondent and will not

bring finality to parties decree.

(f) The conditions laid down in the case of Beatrice Dep vs. Meemaduma not

satisfied. All 3 limbs of the case above mentioned has to be fulfilled.

The substituted lA, 1B, 1C & 1D Plaintiff-Appellant submit in their

Written submissions that trial proceeded on the available deeds and as at the

date of trial all the deeds relating to title was not available. The deceased

Plaintiff pleaded in the petition of appeal (paragraph 16) to produce deed

x( 1) to x( 4) referred to therein, and invite this court to exercise the powers

vested in this court under Section 773 of the Civil Procedure Code and

Article 139(2) of the Constitution. No doubt when one read and understand

the above provisions it is clear that the Court of Appeal has wide powers and

discretionary powers, to deal with appeals and even admit fresh evidence

having in mind that justice should prevail at all times and the Court of

8

Appeal is legally bound to give effect to the above legal provisions to ensure

rights and interests of parties, legally. However these powers need to be

exercised very cautiously.

The judgment of the learned trial Judge however cannot be

faulted. Parties agreed to settle and evidence was led accordingly and

judgment was entered on material placed before the trial court by the

Plaintiff. Therefore there is finality reached between the litigants in the trial

court, though in a partition suit there is a duty cast on the District Judge to

investigate title. In this regard parties could compromise their dispute as in

the case in hand, supported by the case of Kaleel vs. Argeen, and within the

limits stated in the case of Thilagaratnam vs. Athpunathan. Looking at the

entire case in hand what really strike me is the absence of material to show

that the Plaintiff failed to obtain the necessary deeds with reasonable

diligence for use at the trial. On the other hand I cannot deny the possibility

that if fresh evidence by permitting the aforesaid deeds to be produce in

evidence, would have an important influence in the result of the case. Nor

can I conclude that such production of deeds as evidence would not be

apparently credible.

• 9

It is important to fathom from the above mentioned decided

cases re-Beatrice Dep's Case, Ratwatte vs. Bandara & Ladd Vs. Marshall

that in order to justify the reception of fresh evidence all three conditions

laid down in the above cases should be fulfilled. The dicta in the above cases

had been followed and adopted for quite a long period of time. It is

regrettable that Plaintiff had failed to demonstrate and prove that he could

not obtain the deeds relied by him as at the date of trial to be used at the trial,

with reasonable diligence. This aspect of the case had not been established

according to the available material. Mere statement that he could not obtain

the deeds, would not suffice.

In all the above circumstances I am reluctantly compelled to

dismiss this appeal without costs.

I

t

r I ! ! t I ! t

~ f