==== BLOCKS ==== 

, ,---

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Case No: CA 897/99(F)

DC A vissawella 19413/L

In the matter of an Appeal in terms

of Section 754(2) of the Civil

Procedure Code.

Abdul Wahab Mohamed Badoordeen,

182, Garagoda, Yatiyantota.

Plaintiff

Vs

Paliskara Mudiyanselage

N. Amarasiri, Pahala Garagoda, Yatiyantota.

Defendant

AND NOW BETWEEN

Abdul Wahab Mohamed Badoordeen,

182, Garagoda, Yatiyantota.

Plaintiff-Appellant

Vs.

Paliskara Mudiyanselage N Amarasiri,

Pahala Garagoda, Yatiyantota.

Defendant-Respondent

\

J

\ J :

, ,

)

, -of

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED

A.W.A. SALAM,J.

Nirma Karunarathna for the Appellant and

T. Weragoda for the Respondent.

11.07.2012

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS TENDERED ON: 13.07.2012

DECIDED ON 08.08.2012

A.W.Abdus Salam,J .

. he plaintiff filed action for a declaration of title to the

set out in schedule 2 of the plaint and for

ejectment of the defendant. He also claimed damages

from the defendant for wrongful removal of a Jak tree

stood on the subject matter. As has been disclosed in the

plaint the land in schedule 2 of the plaint is a divided and

defined portion of a larger land set out in schedule 1 of

the plaint.

The title to the larger land starts with one Sopi Nona who

was a co-owner of 1/20 share. The plaintiffs main

contention was that the larger land was partitioned, in

terms of a settlement entered in the conciliation board in

1974. The plaintiff stated that a defined portion of the

2

. "

,~. , larger land, namely Lot 7 was allotted to the said Sopi .,,":'/'

','

.~'

Nona in the year 1974 and she possessed the same as an

independent entity from 1974 onwards and then

transferred it to her son one Jayaratna in the year 1991

who in turn transferred it to the plaintiff by deed No

129 dated 19th January 1991. The plaintiff complained

that the defendant without any manner of title on 1 st

December 1993 entered the subject matter and cut a jak

tree thereby disputing the title of the plaintiff and causing

damages to him. The defendant in his answer denied the

principal allegation made against him and moved for a

dismissal of the action.

At the commencement of the trial 9 issues were raised by

the plaintiff and the defendant raised 5 issues. The

plaintiff gave evidence and then called his immediate

predecessor in title to testify on his behalf. The defendant

gave evidence and called the Grama Sevaka to corroborate

his version. The learned district judge at the conclusion of

the trial after granting the parties an opportunity to tender

written submissions delivered his judgment dismissing the

3

,. r

,-"

/' if

plaintiffs case on the ground that the plaintiff has failed to

establish the ingredients necessary to be entitled to

judgment in a rei-vindicatio action.

As far as the plaintiffs case is concerned, the land in

question is a portion of a larger land which was owned in

common by several people. Soppy Nona, the predecessor

in title of the plaintiff who is said to be the original owner

(in so far as as the plaintiff has traced), was the owner of

an undivided 1/20 share. The plaintiff sought to establish

that the larger land was partitioned consequent upon a

settlement entered in the Conciliation Board. It is

common ground that Sopi Nona is a sister of the father of

the defendant and the plaintiff has conceded that the

defendant's father was also a co-owner of the larger land

.t at one point of time. In oreder to prove his case against

the defendant, the plaintiff maintained that due to the

father of the defendant not having discharged a mortgage,

his rights in the land had got wiped out. I can not

understand as to how the soil rights of a co-owner can get

wiped out, if a mortgage bond is not discharged unless the

4

,.. .. t..;..· ~--

rights sold on a hypothecary decree. It is basic law that

the failure to discaharge a mortgage bond affecting land

continues to burden the land with such encumberance

but the title remains with the mortgagor.

Although, the burden in an action of this nature to prove

title to the land is squarly on the plaintiff, there has been

an obvious failure on the part of the plaintiff to prove that

the co-ownership of the original land namely the larger

land described in schedule 1 of the plaint had ceased to

exist at a particular time. Besides, he has failed to tender

in evidence the settlement arrived at the Conciliation

Board. The original of the amicable partition plan also has

not been tendered by the plaintiff. The learned district

judge having analyzed the evidence has come to the

finding that the plaintiff has failed to adduce cogent

evidence with regard to his claim of prescription for lot 7.

The amicable plan of partition relied upon by the plaintiff

has not been signed by all the co-owners. Further no

amicable partition deed has been executed among the

5

t·~··-

,.

parties either. The defendant and his family members

have been resident on the land according to the electoral

registers produced at the trial for a long period of time.

The learned District Judge has emphasized that the

plaintiff in a rei-vindicatio action cannot rely on the

defects of the defendant's title or the infirmities of the

defence as a ground to strengthen his case or to fill the

omisslOns. This principle of law has been succinctly laid

down in the case of Wanigarathne Vs Juwanis Appuhamy

65 NLR 168 and the learned District Judge has correctly

applied this principle to the facts of the present case and

dismissed the plaintiffs action. Having given my anxious

consideration to the approach adopted by the learned

District Judge to ascertain as to whether the plaintiff is

entitled to the relief claimed, I am in total agreement with

the reasoning of the trial judge that had culminated in the

dismissal of the action. Hence, I see no reason to deviate

from the findings of the learned district judge and in the

circumstances, the appeal warrants no intervention of

6

I ,.

this Court. For reasons stated, this appeal stands

dismissed without costs.

~~ ...

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

7

! •.

It\tJ!

tif

I

1\ }