==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APEAL OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

Case No.CA/WRIT 155/2012

In the matter of an Application for a Mandate

In the nature of a Writ of Certiorari under and

in Terms of Article 140 of the Constitution of

the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

01. Thappasara Muhandiramalage

Karunaratne

Egodawatte,

Ma-Nana,

Kalawana.

02. Thappassara Muhandiramlage Ratnapala

Pallehawatte,

Ma-Nana,

Kalawana.

03. Seelawansa Hitahamillage

Lokumahathmaya

Thappassarakanda,

Kalawana.

04. Nayingala Vidanalage Gunawardena,

Ma-Nana,

Kalawana.

PETITIONERS

Vs.

2

01. National Gem And Jewellery

Authority,

21, Galle Face Terrace,

Colombo 01.

02. Wimalaratne Muthugala,

Regional Manager,

National Gem And Jewellery

Authority

Ratnapura.

03. Senior Legal Officer,

National Gem And Jewellery

Authority,

21, Galle Face Terrace,

Colomb01.

04. Kannangara Koralalage Kulasiri,

Kannangara,

Koswatta,

Kalawana.

05. Thappassara Muhandiramlage

Samarana yake

Ma-Nana,

Kalawana.

06. Thappassara Muhandiramlage

Gnadasa

Koswatta,

Kalawana.

07. Thappassaa Muhamdiramlage

Jeewananda

Shantha Kumara Dissanayake,

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued on

Written Submission on

Decided on

S.Sriskandarajah,J

3

Koswatta,

Kalawana.

08. Thappasara Muhandiramlage

Podimahaththaya,

Ma-Nana,

Kalawana.

RESPONDENTS

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

R.M.D.Bandara with L.L.D.Silva,

for the Petitioner.

M.U.M.Ali Sabry PC

For the 4th Respondent

11.03.2013

18.03.2013 (Petitioner & 4th Respondent)

06.06.2013

The Petitioners claim that they are the owners of undivided 3 I 5th shares of the

land called Indura Kumbura situated in the village Thappassara in Kalawana, in the

district of Ratnapura, containing in extent of about 1 Acre 0 Rood 20 Perches. The

Petitioners submitted that in relation to this land, the 4th Respondent has obtained a

gemming licence bearing No.RT72055A from the National Gem & Jewellery Authority.

The Petitioners in this Application have challenged the issuance of the said licence to

4

the 4th Respondent and have sought a Writ of Certiorari to quash the decision of the

Gem & Jewellery Authority to issue the said licence to the 4th Respondent. The

Petitioners challenge the said decision on the basis that the 4th Respondent has not

established that he owns 2/ 3rd share of the land or he has obtained consent of so many

of the other owners as to ensure that he and such other consenting owners together

owned at least 2j3rd of the land. The Petitioners submitted that in terms of Rule 8(2) of

the said Gem Corporation by-laws published in the Ceylon Government Gazette (Extra-

ordinary) dated 9/03/1971, no licence shall be granted to any person unless:

(a) He himself owns the land;

(b) He has obtained the consent of so many of the other owners

as to ensure that the Applicant and such other consenting

owners together own at least 2/ 3rd of the land in respect of

which the application has been made.

The Gem & Jewellery Authority has wide powers to determine the rights of

parties in relation to a land in which a gemming licence is sought and in arriving at a

decision, the authority is bound to give a hearing to the parties and to arrive at a

decision according to the provisions laid down by law and the rules framed there

under. It is the contention of the Petitioner that the 4th Respondent has not established

the 2j3rd rights on the land in dispute and, as such, the Authority has no legal right to

issue a licence to the 4th Respondent.

The 4th Respondent submitted that the only document submitted by the

Petitioners to prove their right to the land in dispute is deed bearing No.6292 marked

4Rl, and the 4th Respondent submitted that the said deed does not bear any reference to

the land in dispute and, at the same time, the 4th Respondent submitted that, in addition

to the ownership of a portion of the land, he has also produced a Lease Agreement

marked P3, and in terms of which, some of the eo-owners had permitted the 4th

Respondent to carry on gem mining in the said land. He also submitted that in respect

I

5

of the remaining shares, the other eo-owners of the said land in dispute had submitted

their concurrence letters to the 2nd Respondent Authority prior to renewal of licence in

question. It is the submission of the 4th Respondent that he has established his right to

gem in the whole land in dispute.

On the request of the Gem & Jewellery Authority, the 4th Responent entered into

an agreement with the Gem & Jewellery Authority on 15/03/2012, wherein the 4th

Respondent agreed to deposit the ground share proceeds from the proceeds of the sale

of gems in respect of the 3/5th share in the Authority, and on this condition the licence

was issued to the 4th Respondent. The Gem & Jewellery Authority is empowered under

Act No.50 of 1993, to issue a licence subject to such terms and conditions as may be

prescribed.

This application is a judicial review application and this Court cannot go into the

facts of the case, and the procedure before this Court is not equipped to call for

evidence to ascertain the correctness of the position taken by the Petitioner and the

Respondents in relation to their shares in respect of the land in question. The Gem &

Jewellery Authority is empowered under the National Gem & Jewellery Authority Act

to inquire into and to issue licence to carry on the gem industry that is proposed to be

carried on in a private land. The Applicant, for the said licence, according to the rules

of the said Authority should, at least the owner of 2/3rd share of the said land, in the

instant case, the 4th Respondent, has submitted that he is not only owing a substantial

portion of the said land, but has also obtained the consent of the other eo-owners of the

said land. In addition, the 4th Respondent has also agreed to deposit the ground share

from the proceeds of sale of 3/5 with the Gem & Jewellery Authority, which portion is

claimed by the Petitioner. The ground share of 3/5 from the proceeds of sale was to be

deposited with the Authority. The pedigree, the ownership and the shares of the

Petitioner and the 4th Respondent has to be determined by a competent civil court, for

the parties to claim their respective rights before the Authority for the purpose of

gemming. But as the National Gem & Jewellery Authority has given power for the

'.l·H.,.,'"""~.~~JI'dt;;.;,;,oi>'.-..u-·· '

6

Authority to issue licence in relation to gemming industry on private land, the

Authority has rightly conducted an inquiry, after giving a hearing to the parties

concerned, had arrived at a conclusion that the 4th Respondent is entitled for the licence

to gem in the said land. The Authority also has protected the interests of the Petitioner

by directing the 4th Respondent to deposit ground share from the proceeds of sale in the

Gem & Jewellery Authority. As such, the 4th Respondent's failure to establish his rights

in a competent court on the said land, will not be adversely affect the rights of the

Petitioner. In the given circumstances the issuance of the licence to the 4th Respondent

cannot be reviewed as illegal or unreasonable and, therefore, the Petitioner's application

for a Writ of Certiorari to quash the said licence has no valid basis and, therefore, this

Court dismisses this application without cost.

President of the Court of Appeal