==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Maduwala Gedara Premadasa

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

C.A 261/2009

H.C. Panadura 1847/2004

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake J.

Vs.

Hon Attorney General

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

RESPONDENT

Amila Palliyage for the Accused-Appellant

Thusith Mudalige S.S.c. for the Respondnet

24.03.2014

26.05.2014

1

2

GOONERATNE J.

Accused-Appellant was convicted of grave sexual abuse, and offence

punishable under Section 365(2)(b) of the Penal Code and was sentenced to a

term of 8 years rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs.5000, and in default of

payment of fine for simple imprisonment of 6 months. Accused-Appellant was

also ordered to pay compensation to the prosecutrix in a sum of Rs. 25,000/-

which carries a default sentence of 2 years rigorous imprisonment. In brief the

fact of this case may be summarized as follows:

The Accused-Appellant and the prosecutrix and her family were living

in the Ceylon Electricity Board Quarters at Horana, and their houses were

adjacent to each other. The prosecutrix was only 12 years old at the time she

was subject to sexual abuse. She had identified the Accused-Appellant who

was called IKaiu Mama' and at that time he was staying alone in his house. The

prosecutrix used to go to the house of the Accused in the evening after she

return from school, and the Accused-Appellant had taken her to the toilet and

closed the door and had sexually abused the prosecutrix by liking the genitals

3

of the prosecutrix, when he is in a sitting position. This sort of behavior had

continued at least on about 4/5 occasions, and the prosecutrix had not

disclosed any such incident to her mother through fear. The accused having

done so had given the prosecutrix money and chocolates. She used to share

the chocolates with her class mates. One day the brother of the prosecutrix

had been searching for her when she had come out of the toilet of the

Accused and the brother had grabbed the chocolates from her and hit her and

when asked by the brother as to who gave the chocolates she said it was 'Kalu

Mama'. Thereafter her mother had questioned the prosecutrix about the

alleged incident but she had not told the mother about it and the mother had

told her that if there is something which cannot be disclosed advised her to

inform the class teacher.

The class teacher being suspicious as to how the prosecutrix had

money in her possession had questioned her. Initially she did not admit,

subsequently told the teacher that 'Kalu mama' had given her money after

such incidents. This had been reported by the teacher to the school Principal

who had informed the Probation Officer. Thereafter the police had taken over

the investigation, visited the house and the scene of the incident. She also

made a statement to the police and was also examined by a Medical Officer.

4

The learned counsel for the Appellant contended that the indictment

does not refer to a particular date and suggested that the charge is vague since

it does not refer to a particular date of incident. It was also argued that the

learned High Court Judge has erred by considering the evidence of the

Accused-Appellant as corroborative evidence to prove the prosecution case.

Learned counsel also emphasized that the learned High Court Judge had erred

by evaluating the defence case in the light of the evidence of the prosecution

witnesses. He also stated that there is a serious misdirection in law as the

learned High Court Judge has not applied the same standard when evaluating

the evidence of the Accused. Learned counsel specifically argued that the

Accused-Appellant's position is a total denial of the incident and submitted to

court that it is unsafe to act on the testimony and the unreliable evidence of

the prosecutrix in the absence of corroborative evidence. He also mentioned

that the medical evidence does not support the case of the prosecutrix. In the

course of his submission he also drew the attention of this court to certain

omissions and contradictions. Learned counsel also referred to the history

given by the patient to the medical officer and stated that another was

involved.

5

The learned Senior State Counsel in his address to this court

emphasized that the evidence of the class teacher who was a witness for the

prosecution was never challenged by the defence. He referred to the evidence

of the class teacher and the observations she made regarding the victim i.e

money dealings by the victim in the canteen with the other class mates,

constantly found in the canteen with others. This witness questioned the

victim about the money in her possession and the victim admitted on

questioning her that the uncle gives money. The purpose of giving money to

her was also revealed i.e for touching or embracing her body. Thereafter this

witness had reported to the sectional head and thereby the principal of the

school was also informed and the principal informed the Probation Officer

which enabled the police investigations to commence. Learned Senior State

Counsel states that the above items of evidence fortify the case of the

prosecutrix, and thereby take the case forward to the point of police

investigation, from the evidence of the victim. He also argued that the

omissions referred to by the learned counsel for the Accused-Appellant are

contrary to the provisions of Section 145 of the Evidence Ordinance.

The learned trial Judge has very carefully analysed the evidence of

the victim. Very correctly the learned High Court Judge has observed that

6

there had been no contradictions marked in cross-examination of the victim

but refer to the omissions. I find that the trial judge has given her mind to all

the omissions, and decided the truthfulness of the version of the victim. I do

agree that the evidence should be rejected only if its a material omission

which goes to the root of the case. The omission suggested does not appear to

be material to the case in hand, and the defence had not succeeded in casting

doubts of the incident itself. The several details elicited in evidence-in-chief

which are so germane to the incident remain un-contradicted. Further the

victim was only about 12 years old at the time of the incident and having

considered the tender age there is no basis to reject the evidence based only

omission which does not go to the root of the case. In Best Footwear (Pvt.) Ltd.

Vs. Aboosally 1997 (2) SLR 137 per Jayasooriya J. ...

Learned defence counsel also referred to an alleged misdirection

based on burden of roof and presumption of innocence. Learned counsel

relied on the case of James Silva Vs. The Republic of Sri Lanka 1980 (2) SLR at

176. In the said case it was held that it is a grave error of law for a trial Judge

to direct himself that he must examined the tenability and the truthfulness of

the evidence of the defence in the light of the evidence led by the prosecution.

In the instant case the position seems to be somewhat different to the above.

j 1 I i j 1 I I i

~ I I I I ,

7

The position of the Accused-Appellant, was a total denial of the incident. The

Accused gave evidence, and denied the incident and in his evidence the

Accused stated that he had a suspicion of the victim party falsely implicating a

criminal charge, over an alleged cycle theft. The Accused does not distinctly

state that he was falsely implicated but goes on to state that he only has a

suspicion about a false charge. At pgs. 230-232 of the brief the learned High

Court Judge refer to the evidence of the Accused, and rejects the position of

the accused mainly on the basis that alleged incident cannot be denied based

on evidence, and that the Accused could not produce a charge as regards the

theft of a cycle to demonstrate that it was the victim's party who falsely

implicated the Accused. In arriving at a conclusion on this aspect of the case

the trial Judge considered the victim's age and all other circumstances

concerning her tender age and state that a victim of such an age (12 years)

would on one hand be reluctant to disclose the incident due to social stigma

and the consequences that flow from the society, on such a disclosure. In

other words as far as possible she and her parents would be reluctant to

disclose such an incident and as such cannot accept the fact that the victim

and her parents would go to an extent to falsely implicate the Accused due to

a cycle theft. The trial Judge in this regard refer to the case of Hirjrbhai Vs.

1

~

i I

I

I i I

8

State of Gujurat AIR 1983 S.C 753 and Indian case which refer in details to

social stigma flowing from incidence of rape etc. When I consider the entirety

of the trial court Judge's Judgment I think it is unfair to observe that the trial

Judge has decided to examine the truthfulness and the tenability of the

defence case In the light of the prosecution case or by a comparison of the

prosecution case. In the Judgment the learned High Court Judge no doubt, has

given her mind to the rejection of a suggestion of the false implication by the

mother of the victim, but goes on to analyse the evidence of the Accused and

rejects the Accused' version on such a defence and to arrive at such a decision

to reject the Accused' version, had considered a few decide cases as referred

to above. Therefore I am reluctant to act on the submissions of learned

counsel for the Accused that the trial Judge has been misdirected on the

burden of proof and the presumption of innocence. It is necessary to examine

the entirety of the Judgment of the High Court on that point alone and not on

isolated items of evidence. Nor can such a view prevail to create a doubt about

the guilt of the Accused.

On the question of vagueness of the incident regarding the date of

incident and the reference made therein to the period, we cannot see any

prejudice being caused to the Accused party, on this aspect since it was not a

9

sole isolated incident but the alleged acts had been committed on several

dates, which shows repetition and continuation of Acts.

In the circumstances and in the context of the alleged incident I wish

to observe that the victim's version is sufficiently corroborated by the

evidence of the other prosecution witness especially by the evidence of the

victims school teacher and that of the mother. It is in fact adds to establish the

consistency of the victim's story, and satisfy the test of probability. As such we

are not inclined to interfere with the Judgment of the learned High Court

Judge. Conviction and sentenced affirmed. Appeal dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL