==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I

~ J f f

~ I j I i 1 I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. NO.687/98(F)

D.C.BANDARAWELA CASE NO.426/L

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON

DECIDED ON

1. R. J inadasa 2. D.M.Karunawathie Both are at 4th Mile Post, Gurutalawa.

Defendant -Appellants Vs.

1. A.M.Samarasiri Kulasekera 2. A.M.Sisil Chandrasiri Kulsekera Both are at No.12j2, Polduwa Road,

Battaramulla.

Substituted-Plaintiff-Respondents

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J

S.A.Kulasooriya with Charith Galhena for the Defendant-Appellants

H.Vithanachchi for the Substituted-Plaintiff-Respondents

28.05.2013

21.06. 2013 by the Defendant-Appellants 19.06.2013 by the Substituted-Plaintiff-Respondents

03.09.2013

I! f

1l

tI

r;' I

f I

1 1 ;J j

I

CHITRASIRI, J.

At the outset, I will briefly refer to the facts of this case. The original

plaintiff (hereinafter referred to as the plaintiff) namely, A.M.Alexander

Kulasekera filed this action by his plaint dated 25.10.1982 seeking inter alia to

have a declaration, declaring that he is the legitimate holder of the permit

marked PI by which, permission had been granted for him to possess the land

referred to in the 1 st schedule to the plaint. In that plaint, it is stated that the

plaintiff obtained the aforesaid permit dated 2.10.1952 under the reference

No.17/70, enabling him to possess the land referred to in the first schedule to

the plaint. It had been issued by the State in terms of the provisions contained

in the Land Development Ordinance. Further it is stated that possession of a

particular portion of the said land referred to in the first schedule to the plaint

was forcibly taken over by the defendant-appellants (hereinafter referred to as

the defendants) and the said portion of the land is described in the second

schedule to the plaint. Accordingly, the plaintiff sought to have the defendants

evicted from the land referred to in the second schedule to the plaint on the

strength of the permit marked PI issued in the name of the plaintiff. The

defendants in their answer whilst praying for a dismissal of the action have

stated that they were in possession of the land referred to in the 2nd schedule to

the plaint for about 28 years.

Learned District Judge having accepted the rights of the plaintiff

referred to in the permit marked PI, granted the reliefs to the plaintiff as prayed

for in the prayer to the plaint. Being aggrieved by the said decision, the

2

I

I I I I

defendants have appealed. When the appeal was taken up for hearing in this

Court, learned Counsel for the defendant-appellants restricted his argument

limiting it to the two issues mentioned herein below. Therefore, this appeal could

be decided in favour of the defendant-appellants, only if either of those two

issues is decided against the substituted-plaintiff-respondents. Learned Counsel

for the respondents did not object to have the appeal concluded in that manner.

The two issues raised by the learned Counsel for the appellants are as follows:

(1) Whether the permit marked PI is valid in law when there is no

evidence to establish that the original plaintiff had paid the

annual fees payable to the Government in respect of the said

permit upon which the claim of the plaintiff had been made.

(2) Whether the substitution, effected on 20.07.1998 substituting

the two substituted-plaintiff-respondents in the room of the

deceased-plaintiff, is valid in law.

I will first advert to the 1 st issue referred to above. Admittedly, the plaintiff

has failed to pay the annual fees for a considerable period of time before filing

this action. It is evident by the following evidence of the plaintiff.

" ......... ~C)C) ~~(9®C)Oo!D qDd~»®5~ Q)~ ®(5)~D). ~@o!SJ q~oz<~C) Q)~ ~C)C)

(5)afO)l. oz.25/-~@o!SJ ®(5)~D). q~o~ 00)) ®(5)~Dl. Q)~0Q)C)~ q~oz<~C)

3

J ! I

Relying upon the aforesaid evidence of the plaintiff who admitted that he

failed to pay the annual fees due to the State, learned Counsel for the appellant

has argued that the learned District Judge should not have acted upon the

permit in the absence of such evidence as to the payment of annual sum payable

to the State. He also has referred to the condition (v) found in the permit marked

PI in support of his contention. Condition (v) referred to in the permit reads

thus:

"(u) The annual sum payable to the crown by the permit holder shall be

Twenty one Rupees and ...... Cents (Rs.21/ -Cents .. .) and it shall be paid on

the First day of March each year. "

In the circumstances, it is necessary to ascertain whether the failure to

pay the annual fees would invalidate the permit marked PI, particularly in view

of the aforesaid clause (v) contained in the said permit. The evidence of the

plaintiff referred to above indicates the reasons as to why the plaintiff did not

pay the annual sum due to the State. He has stated that he paid Rs.25/-

annually at the beginning. He has then stated that the Government did not

accept the dues despite his attempts to pay those dues thereafter. Also, he has

said that the Government informed him not to pay the annual fees and to his

4

understanding it was probably due to a decision of the Government to Issue

"Grants" to such lands under the "SWARNABOOMI PROGRAMME".

In the circumstances, it is seen that the plaintiff had no intention of

evading the payment of annual sum due to the State. The plaintiff in this

instance cannot be penalized for the conduct of the others, particularly when

those others who prevented the plaintiff making the dues, are the persons who

are authorized to accept the annual fees. Hence, it is seen that the reasons for

the failure to make the payment had been beyond the plaintiffs control.

Such circumstances should necessarily be considered in favour of the

permit holder when making a decision to have a permit cancelled even if there is

a condition in a permit issued by the Government to annul the same for non-

payment of fees. Therefore, it is my view that the circumstances of each case

should independently be considered before coming to a conclusion to make a

permit invalid on the ground of non-payment of annual fees. Hence, it is

incorrect to make the permit marked PI invalid for non-payment of fees payable

to the State since the permit holder had been prevented from making such fees

for the reasons beyond his control.

Moreover, I wish to state that no provision IS found in the Land

Development Ordinance making such a permit invalid for failure to pay the

annual fees even if such a failure has purposely been done. In this regard I refer

to Section 19(2) of the Land Development Ordinance where the Legislature has

5

t

JII!t

stipulated the manner III which the arrears of fees are to be recovered. It

stipulates thus:-

"(1) ................ ..

(2) Every such person shall in the first instance receive a pennit

authorizing him to occupy the land.

A pennit-holder shall pay the purchase amount as detennined

by the Land Commissioner in full in final installments within a period of ten years, together with the interest falling due there on calculated at a rate not exceeding four per centum of the balance of the purchase amount outstanding each year after payment of the annual installment due for that year

Provided, however, that where the permit holder fails to make

such full payment within the specified period, the Government Agent may extend such period for a further period of two years if the permit-holder satisfies the Government Agent that such failure was due to sickness, crop failure or other unavoidable cause".

(emphasis added)

This provision III law stipulates a particular process in recovering the

annual fees due on the permits issued under the Land Development Ordinance.

Indeed, it provides to extent the validity of the permit when there is evidence to

show circumstances, similar to the matters referred to in this instance. In that

Section nothing is mentioned as to invalidating a permit automatically, for non-

payment of annual sum payable to the State. Under those circumstances, it is

correct to decide that the permit marked PI would not make it invalid for non-

payment of annual fees due to the Government.

Moreover, non-payment of fees, it being a question of fact should have

been raised at the trial held in the Court below. Merely, because questions were

6

/

i t j I

t I I I I

asked by the plaintiff on the payment of annual fees, learned trial Judge could

not have considered such a question without a clear issue being framed. Also,

such a question of fact cannot be looked at this appeal stage. This criterion has

been recognized in the case of Thalwatte vs. Somasunderam. [1997 (2)

S.L.R.at pg. 109] In that decision G.P.S,De Silva C.J. held thus:

"Neither the pleadings nor the issues nor even the written

submissions reflect the question of appropriation of payments. A new

contention of this kind cannot be raised for the first time in appeal

since it involves questions of mixed fact and law - vide the judgment

of Dias J in Setha V Weerakoon. [49 NLR 225,228,229]"

For the aforesaid reasons, I decide that the 1st issue namely, invalidating

the permit issued in the name of the plaintiff for non-payment of annual fees,

raised at the commencement of the argument does not favour the defendant-

appellants.

Next issue is in relation to the substitution effected on 20.07.1998.

Coincidently, the judgment in this case also has been delivered on this date.

The journal entry made on that date reads thus:

" 98.07.20

7

I

I

I

•

(1) K. B~(lc

(2) tDOz~mE)65

®cG3c oz®6l@tDOz CiE)~CiE)a) w~CiG5 GOz®tDOzE)a) Ci~Ci~~) 5aa) G)O)g~

BcE)o CiG))~C)O<5. wga)CiG5 CiOOtD@)aC~ CiG))~ tDo<5. ~65~ CiGi'® q®OCitDJa)

®~O») CiG)a) 5®c~ ~E) ~ G)z~ ~® qc q)Ci(~ a;O®C) 50z(tl E)a)Cia)~ ca)~,

w~ OE)Ca)Cia) ~ G)z~ 50z(tl Ci~)E)~ Q)E)<5. ~@a) Ci~Ci~~) q)Ci(~o)

oz®6l@tDOzE)a) Q)E)() OtDtDO®.

~~ 65a)~E) 5E);)0) qC>C)O®gCid a;C)E)~ @zCi~.

~65~ CiGi'® q®OCitDJa) ®~O») 5tDa>tDOzE)a) CiE)~CiE)a) CiO~ aB.

The aforesaid journal entry shows that the learned District Judge has

made order to substitute the two substituted plaintiff-appellants in the room of

the deceased-plaintiff, on an application made by the Counsel appeared on

behalf of the substituted plaintiff-respondents. A petition and an affidavit dated

18.07.1998 had been filed seeking to effect the said substitution. The petition

and the affidavit so filed are found at pages 78 to 81 in the appeal brief.

8

! ! rI! ,!

!!, !l I

I

i 1

! 1 I i f I I

I

More importantly, there was no objection what so ever had been raised on

behalf of the two defendants to the said application for substitution. Indeed, the

Counsel who appeared on their behalf, when the application was made, had

informed Court that he had no objection for the substitution of the two

respondents in the room of the deceased-plaintiff. Therefore, I do not see any

error on the part of the learned District Judge when he made order to substitute

the two substituted-plaintiff-respondents in place of the deceased plaintiff. In

fact, the substitution effected in this instance had been an advantage to the

defendants. If no substitution was effected substituting the heirs of the deceased

plaintiff, it may have caused difficulties for the defendants to file this appeal

since the party against whom the appeal was to prefer is dead by then.

Under those circumstances, I do not see any error in having the said

substitution effected on 27.10.1998 substituting the substituted-plaintiff-

respondents in the room of the deceased plaintiff. Accordingly, I am unable to

hold with the defendant-appellants even with regard to the issue bearing No.2

raised at the beginning of the hearing.

For the aforesaid reasons, this appeal is dismissed with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

9

i ! IIII

1 t II i t i

\

II