==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

CA Revision Application

No: 395/06

Me Tissamaharamaya

No: 72920

In the matter of an Application for revision

and restitution in integrum under and in

terms of Article 138 of the Constitution.

Kottalbadde Widanelage Dharmasiri

Director General of the Urban

Development Authority, No.27 D.R.

Wijewardena Mawatha Colombo 10,

Presently at ttSethsiripaya", Sri

Jayawardenapura Kotte, Battaramulla.

Applicant

Vs.

Ratnayake Mudiyanselage Baby Nona

Raja Mawatha, Kataragama.

Respondent

AND BETWEEN

1

II II

I I ! t i I [ I;

I f t r! t I !iIti II

if

I

~it(i

Ratnayake Mudiyanselage Baby Nona

Raja Mawatha, Kataragama.

Dissatisfied Party applicant

Vs.

1. Kottalbadde Widanelage Dharmasiri

Director General of the Urban

Development Authority, No.27 D.R.

Wijewardena Mawatha Colombo 10,

Presently at tlSethsiripaya", Sri

Jayawardenapura Kotte, Battaramulla.

2. Director General of the Urban

Development Authority, No.27 D.R.

Wijewardena Mawatha Colombo 10,

Presently at tlSethsiripaya", Sri

Jayawardenapura Kotte, Battaramulla.

Respondents

And Now Between

1. Kottalbadde Widanelage Dharmasiri

2

Director General of the Urban

Development Authority, No.27 D.R.

Wijewardena Mawatha Colombo 10,

Presently at IlSethsiripaya", Sri

Jayawardenapura Kotte, Battaramulla.

2. Director General of the Urban

Development Authority, No.27 D.R. ( I

t ,Wijewardena Mawatha Colombo 10,

t 1:

~ ! f Presently at IlSethsiripaya", Sri

~ i Jayawardenapura Kotte, Battaramulla. ! t ! [ 3. The Urban Development Authority,

~ f

~ l No.27 D.R. Wijewardena Mawatha

~ i Colombo 10,

I t!

Presently at IlSethsiripaya", Sri

Jayawardenapura Kotte, Battaramulla.

Respondents - Respondents

4. Gunasinghe Arachchige Saman

No: 39, In front of School,

3

:

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUEDON

DECIDEDON

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J

Raja Mawatha,

Sellakataragama.

Respondent

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J

Manohara De Silva P.C. with A.

Wijesundara for the Petitioner.

W. Dayaratne P.C. with S.De Soysa

for the 4th Respondent.

22.07.2014

27.l1.2014

Ratnayaka Mudalige Bebinona of Kirigedara, Mailagama, Kataragama, the

Applicant Petitioner of this case seeks to revise and/or set aside orders of the

4

. .

learned Magistrate dated 27.01.2006 and 07.10.2005 made in the case bearing

No: 72920 of Magistrate Court, Tissanaharama. She has further asked for

making an order restoring her to possession of the premises in suit, namely, the

shop premises bearing No: 91 SeliaKataragama. The Petitioner has stated the

above mentioned premises that had been given on rent by the 3rd Respondent

to her late son, Nandasena in the year 1987. She claims that after the death of

Nandasena, she succeeded to the tenancy and continuously paid rent till 1994.

As the 4th Respondent, Gunasinghe Arachchige Saman disputed her tenancy

right and action was instituted in the District Court of Hambantota and the

petitioner was placed in possession by evicting the 4th Respondent in the year

2004.

Thereafter, the Magistrate of Tissamaharama has made an order to eject the

Petitioner from the said premises on an application filed by the 2nd Respondent

under Sec. 5 of the state land (recovery of possession) Act No: 7 of 1979. The

Petitioner was ejected by the fiscal executing the said order on 11.10.2005. Even

though it has been reported in the said case, the notice had been served, the

Petitioner states that the said notice had been served on another person and

not on the Petitioner. Therefore, the Petitioner has made an application to the

Magistrate Court of Tissamaharama to vacate the aforesaid order of ejectment

dated 07.10.2005 and to restore her in possession of the premises on the basis

5

. •

that the order has been made without serving the notice. The Magistrate

refuses the said application by the order dated 27.01.2006.

It appears that the learned Magistrate has refused the application of the

Petitioner for the reasons given in the aforesaid order. It has been accepted that

it was the Petitioner who was ejected by executing the order. The application

has been made after 3 months of the execution of the order. Although it has

been stated that writ application has been filed in the Court of Appeal in respect

of a decision of the Urban Development Authority, no stay order has been

obtained to stay any proceedings. Those are the reason given by the Magistrate

in refusing the Application of the Petitioner.

It has been emphasized by the counsel for the 2nd and 3rd Respondents that the

quit notice of the Magistrate Court case had been addressed to Raja Mawatha,

Kataragama which is the address given in the caption of the cases filed by and

against the Petitioner in the District Court, Court of Appeal and the Supreme

Court. As the fiscal has reported, the summons had been served to the

Petitioner's said address, she cannot take up the possession that the quit notice

had not been served on her.

Admittedly, the premise in suit is owned by the 3rd Defendant, Urban

Development Authority and the said Authority has rented out the premises to

the 4th Respondent. Even if the Petitioner had continued to litigate claiming the

6

i I I I f I I I i If ! ; I

~ f I I i r

f f i I t , t ! , I

. •

tenancy right, no lawful tenancy agreement had existed between Petitioner and

the 3rd Respondent. Though it has been stated that the Petitioner has filed a writ

application challenging the decision of the 3rd Respondent to give the premises

in suit on rent to the 4th Respondent no decision of the said case is disclosed. As

such, this court has no reason to set aside or to revise the orders of the learned

Magistrate made in the case filed by the 3rd Respondent under the recovery of

possession of state land Act. Therefore, this court dismisses the application of

the Petitioner.

Application dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

7

,!I\