==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for Writs of

Certiorari and Mandamus in terms of Article

140 of the Constitution of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri lanka.

*******

C.A. (Writ) Application No.12S/2009

Kahanda Walauwwe

Bandara Weragama,

Retired Brigadier,

Nimal

Sri Lanka Army Volunteer Force,

Officers Mess,

2nd Singha Regiment,

Raja Veediya, Kandy.

PETITIONER

Vs

1. Director,

1

Pay and Records,

Sri Lanka Army,

Army Cantonment,

Panagoda.

2. Kahawatte Plantations Ltd,

Seva Mandhiraya,

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

2

46/38, Nawam Mawatha,

P.O. Box 60, Colombo 02.

3. Commissioner General of Labour,

Industrial Relations Division,

Department of Labour,

7th Floor, Labour Secretariat,

Colombo 05.

RESPONDENTS

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

: Manohara De Silva PC with

Avindu Wijesurendra for the

Petitioner.

Minoli Jinadasa with S.Dewapura

for the 2nd Respondent.

Vikum De Abrew SSC with

Chaya Sri Nammuni SC for the

3 rei Respondent.

: 29th August, 2014.

: osth December, 2014.

Oeepali Wijesundera J.

The petitioner has filed this application praying for a writ of

Certiorari to quash the 3m respondent's decision dated 17/05/2006 and

for a writ of Mandamus to direct the 3rd respondent to inquire into and

make a determination or to settle the dispute between the petitioner and

the 2nd respondent.

The petitioner submitted that he joined the Sri Lanka Army

Volunteer Force in 1976. While being employed at MIS Kahawatta

Plantation Ltd who is the 2nd respondent in this action, the said 2nd

respondent was requested by the Army by letter dated 07/06/1994 (P4)

to release the petitioner for Army active service, accordingly by letter

dated 04/07/1994 the 2nd respondent released him to report to Army

Volunteer Force (P5). The petitioner stated by Public Administration

Circular No. 319 dated 20/12/1985 when a member of the Volunteer

Force is called for active service the civil employer and the army both

are required to pay the full salary of the officer for the first sixty days and

thereafter the civil employer is bound to pay the full civil salary and other

benefits. Accordingly the petitioner had received emoluments from both

the Army and 2nd respondent for the first two months and thereafter from

the 2nd respondent, until June 1999. By P9 and P10 the 1 st respondent

was informed by the 2nd respondent that the payments made to the

3

petitioner was higher that the payments made by the army and has

requested reimbursement from the army. Soon after that the petitioner

was informed by the 2nd respondent that they are withholding the

petitioner's civil salary and emoluments. The petitioner has replied to

this letter by P12. By P13 the 1 st respondent had informed the 2nd

respondent that the army is not bound to reimburse the money as the

Government does not own more than 50% of the shares of the 2nd

respondent company. Thereafter the 2nd respondent had asked for

further information from the petitioner and he has replied by P14, P15a

and P15b. Thereafter the army had paid the petitioner's salary. Sri

Lanka Volunteer Force also has written to the 2nd respondent on behalf

of the petitioner but the 2nd respondent had been repeatedly demanding

the purported over payment from the petitioner (P19a to P1ge). The

counsel for the petitioner submitted that the 2nd respondent's conduct

amounts to constructive termination of the petitioner's employment.

Counsel for the petitioner submitted the petitioner made a

complaint to the 3rd respondent against the 2nd respondent for

withholding his salary and allowances and EPF/ETF contributions and

for penalizing the petitioner for reporting to Army Active Service in

September 2005 (P21). The 3rd respondent had fixed the complaint for

inquiry and after considering their written submissions on 17/05/2006

had informed the parties that the 3rd respondent does not have

4

jurisdiction to inquire into the complaint of the petitioner (P25). The

petitioner's counsel stated that the said decision of the 3rd respondent is

unlawful arbitrary unreasonable and ultra vires of the powers vested in

the 3rd respondent under the provisions of the Termination of

Employment Act, Industrial Dispute Act and Employees Provident Fund

Act.

Counsel for the petitioner further submitted that by the Cabinet

Directive dated 29/03/1972 it was decided by the Cabinet that each

Ministry should inform all departments and corporations that members

of the Volunteer Force should not be penalized during their periods of

mobilization (P26 and P27). He also stated that the Ministry of Defense

in April 1991 informed several ministries including the Plantation

Industries Ministry that personnel of the Volunteer Force who have been

mobilized should not be penalized.

The counsel for the 3rd respondent submitted that the petitioner is

guilty of laches, the dispute had arisen is 1999 and the petitioner

complained to the respondent in 2005. The 3rd respondent's decision

marked P25 was by letter dated 17/05/2006 and the instant application

was filed on 16/02/2009. The 3rd respondent's counsel stated that the

petitioner has failed to give an explanation for the delay. Citing the

5

judgments in Samaraweera Vs Ministry of Public Administration

2003 3 SLR 64 and Dahanayake Vs Sri Lanka Insurance

Corporation Ltd. 2005 1 SLR 67 stated that this application should be

dismissed for unexplained and undue delay.

The 3rd respondent's counsel submitted that an application under

the Termination of Employment Act has to be filed within six months of

the said termination. An application filed after six months can not be

considered by the commissioner under Sec. 68 (1). The counsel further

submitted that Industrial Disputes Act and the Employees Provident

Fund Act has no relevance to the petitioner's grievance in the instant

application.

The counsel for the 2nd respondent in his very long submissions

most of the time repeating the same argument over and over again

stated the petitioner's application is inordinately delayed and cited ten

judgments. This argument was taken up by the counsel for the 3

rd

respondent also with authorities cited.

The counsel for the 2nd respondent submitted that to explain the

delay the petitioner has stated in his petition that he was unable to retain

6

an attorney-at-law due to financial difficulties which is absolutely false as

shown by P29 his letter to the Attorney General which was sent by a

Presidents' Counsel.

The counsel for the 2nd respondent stated that the petitioner's

complaint to the 3rd respondent is also belated, almost six years late. He

stated that after the petitioner was informed by the 2nd respondent that

he will not be paid by them his salary was paid by the Army and that

there was no loss caused to the petitioner and he can not in law

demand the 2nd respondent to make such a payment. The 2nd

respondent stated that the petitioner is not entitled for the Provident

Fund for the said period under Sec. 16(1) of the Employees Provident

Fund Act, as he did not earn from the 2nd respondent during this period.

The counsel for the 2nd respondent citing a long list of judgments

stated that the petitioner's application should be refused for suppression

of material facts.

The petitioner who was employed by the 2nd respondent is a

member of the Army Volunteer Force he was called for active service in

1994; he was paid by the 2nd respondent till July 1999. The 2nd

7

respondent after informing him that he is not entitled for payments by

them stopped paying him. When he informed to the 1 st respondent, the

petitioner's salary was thereafter paid by the army therefore one can not

say he was without an income. The petitioner's claim was based on the

Circular dated 29/03/1972 and P7 Circular dated 20/12/1985 and P28

letter by the Secretary Ministry of Defense. The Circular dated

29/03/1972 which is addressed to Secretary to the Defense Ministry,

Secretary to the Foreign Ministry and Secretary to the Ministry of Public

Administration under which the petitioner was paid by the 2nd

respondent from 1994 to 1999 refers to members of the Volunteer Force

who are employee of the Government departments and corporations it

does not refer to private sector employees. The 2nd respondent has paid

the petitioner on this Circular without a proper understanding of the

same. P28 letter by the Secretary to the Ministry of Defense refers to

the Circular dated 29/03/1972 but it does not refer to the payment of

salaries only to promotions and increments of the personnel of the

Volunteer Force who have been Mobilized for long periods of time. P7

Circular dated 20/12/1985 also refer to members of the Volunteer Force

employed by the State Corporations, Provincial Councils and

Government Departments it does not refer to the private sector

employees.

The 3rd respondent has correctly stated he had no jurisdiction to

inquire into the petitioner's complaint on one hand his application was

8

belated and on the other hand the application was not made following

the proper procedure laid down in the statutes. The said complaint was

made almost six years later.

Petitioner's instant application is also belated. A partly seeking

writ jurisdiction has to come to court with clean hands. He has

suppressed and misrepresented facts. The petitioner stated his delay

was due to lack of finances which is not true his letter to the Attorney

General marked P29 show that he had retained a Presidents' Counsel.

Therefore it is a totally false declaration.

Petitioner also claimed the Army Act was violated by the

respondents if so he could have taken steps under Section 144 of the

said Act.

For the afore mentioned reasons I decide that the petitioner is not

entitled to get relief prayed for in his petition to this court. Petitioner's

application is dismissed without costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

9