==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 1023 I 2000 F

D.C. Walasmulla No. 311 ID

Ekanayake Arachchige Pemadasa,

B ibulagawatta,

Puskolayaya, Kirama.

Plaintiff

Vs.

Sudusinghe Gunawathie,

CIO Renuka Ekanayake,

No. 96, Kottawatta,

Kolambage Ara.

Defendant

And Now Between

Ekanayake Arachchige Pemadasa,

Bibulagawatta,

Puskolayaya, Kirama.

Plaintiff-Appellant

Vs

Sudusinghe Gunawathie,

CIO Renuka Ekanayake,

No. 96, Kottawatta,

Kolambage Ara.

Defendant -Respondent

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

K.V. Sirisena with N.A. Gunawardana for the Plaintiff Appellant

The Defendant Respondent is absent and unrepresented.

17.05.2012

28.06.2013

The Plaintiff Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant)

instituted the said action against the Defendant Respondent (hereinafter referred to

as the Respondent) seeking a decree for divorce a vinculo matrimonii on the

ground of malicious desertion. The Respondent filed answer denying the

averments in the plaint and sought a decree for divorce a vinculo matrimonii on

malicious desertion on the part of the Appellant and a decree for a sum of Rs.

50.000/- as permanent alimony to be paid by the Appellant. The case proceeded to

trial on 13 issues. After trial the learned Additional District judge has delivered a

judgment in favour of the Respondent.

The Appellant contended that the learned Additional District judge

has failed to evaluate the evidence of the Appellant and the capacity to pay a sum

ofRs. 50,000/- as permanent alimony.

The Appellant has given evidence at the trial. But he has not

called witnesses to give evidence in order to prove the malicious desertion on the

part of the Respondent. The Appellant has stated that on or about 10.04.1978 the

Respondent eloped with another person. But he has not produced a police

3

complaint or any other similar documentary proof to establish the said facts. On

the other hand the Appellant has instituted the present case in the District Court on

15.09.1998 almost 20 years after the alleged desertion. If he was the innocent party

why did he wait such a long time to institute an action against the Respondent?

The Respondent has given evidence and has led the evidence of one

witness. The Respondent in her evidence has stated that the Appellant after

consuming alcohol quarrels and assaults her upon the question of dowry. She

further said in evidence that the Appellant spent his earnings for gambling and

neglected the maintenance of the family and after some time the Appellant left the

matrimonial home. This evidence has been supported by the evidence of another

witness. The Respondent has further stated that the Appellant is drawing a pension

of Rs 4000/- per month. The Appellant has not produced any documentary

evidence to disprove his said income.

Where each party alleges that the other is the deserter it is necessary

to ascertain who is substantially responsible for the desertion in law. The party

who really deserts is the one who compels the desertion. Accordingly in the

present case the Respondent has proved malicious desertion on part of the

Appellant on a balance of probability.

In the said circumstances I am of the view that the learned Additional

District Judge has come to a right conclusion after evaluating the evidence of the

case. Hence I see no reason to interfere with the judgment of learned Additional

District Judge dated 21.07.2000. Therefore I dismiss the appeal of the Appellant

with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal