==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

9. Mahalekamge Sumanasiri of Wathukumbura, Muruthalawa.

9TH DEFENDANT -APPELLANT

Vs. C.A 110211998 (F) D.C Kandy 9063/P

1. M. I. Rajapakse Vidanage Amarawansa Gunasekera

PLAINTIFF -RESPONDENT

2. M. I. R. P. Anulawathie Gunadasa of Dodanwela Muruthalawa.

3. M.I.R.P. Karunawathie of Dodanwela Muruthalawa.

4. M.I.R.P. Keerthiratne Gunasekera of Dodanwela Muruthalawa.

5. B. M. Abeygunawardene Dodanwela Muruthalawa.

6. B. M. Subhadra of Dodanwela Muruthalawa.

7. B. M. Senaratne of Dodanwela Muruthalawa.

8. B. M. Leelawathie of Dodanwela Muruthalawa.

9. U. Karunadasa Bathgodapitiya Menikdiwela

f IIf I

I! i t i

tIIIf ! i If J; ' ~ f ' ~

~ II rf

~ J i

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERA TNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J.

10. P.M.P. Gunadasa Dodanwela, Muruthalawa.

DEFENDANTS-RESPONDENTS

A.A. de Silva P.C., with Jayalath Hissella for 9A Defendant-Appellant

Rohan Sahabandu with Athula Perera for Plaintiff-Respondent

20.9.2012

24.01.2013

2

This is an appeal from a partition suit. The 9th Defendant-

Appellant states that 6 lands as described in the plaint m it's several

schedules were subsequently, restricted to 4 lands as in the amended plaint

and Plaintiff-Respondent claim Y2 share. At the trial 5 admissions were

recorded and parties proceeded to trial on 13 points of contest. Lands

described in schedules 1 - 3 were admitted as depicted in the plans referred

to therein in Surveyor A.B. Kiridena's plans No. 2309 & 2311 of 3.3.1981

and land in the 4th schedule as depicted in Surveyor Kalewalla's plan. It was

f \

rrltIt

~ i lr

f

j i I ' ' ~

~

I

f II

3

also admitted that one Somawathie who claimed to own the above lands was

the mother of the Plaintiff and 1st - 3 rd Defendants. The points of contests

Nos. 1 to 5 relate to the devolution of title on the above named Somawthie.

At the outset this court wish to observe that trial Judge's views

on succession relating to Kandyan Law has been correctly decided and this

court does not wish to disturb those findings. Viz Plaintiff argued that under

Kandyan Law the inheritance of the mother 'Somawathie' would not

devolve on the 1st & 2nd Defendant's daughter if married in 'Deega'

However the trial Judge rule that only father's inheritance will not devolve

on the daughter married in 'Deega' and not that of the mother. According to

Plaintiff and 1st - 3 rd Defendant are entitled to the properties inherited from

Somawathie the mother.

One of the main arguments advanced by the learned counsel for

Appellant was that whether several lands can be partitioned? Are the lands

held in common by the same co-owners in the same proportions and

emphasize that there is no common ownership?

Section 26(4) of Partition Law No. 21 of 1977 ...

Where a partition action is in respect of two or more lands, the interlocutory decree may, in lieu

of ordering the allotment of divided portions in all such lands to the persons entitled thereto, order

that-

I

\!ri I ffII

tI

f ! l

t[ t t! II II! iIl ! f

! i t ! ' ' l

4

(a) any divided portion or portions of one or of some of such lands, or

(b) the entirety of one or of some of such lands whether with or without any divided portion

or portions of any other such land or lands.

be allotted to any such person, whether with or without the award to him of owelty or of

compensation for any improvements made by him to any such land. In any order under this

subsection the court shall determine the amount of any owelty or of any compensation for

improvements and the party by whom and the party to whom such owelty or compensation shall

be paid.

There is no statutory bar to partition several lands held in

Common. The deciding factor seems to be that common ownership need to

prevail in respect of all lands. One of the earlier cases disapproved the

partition of lands where the distinct portions did not belong to the same co-

owners.

In Banda Vs. Weerasekera 23 NLR 157 ...

The added defendants, who alleged that a grant of land made by the Crown to two

persons was not for them exclusively, but for them and the other members of their family,

were permitted to intervene in a partition action merely with a view to secure the

protection of their equitable rights.

The added defendants wished to include as part of the corpus in the partition

action a piece of land which the plaintiff had not included.

Held, that as the added defendants were not co-owners, but persons admitted for the

protection of their equitable interests, they were not entitled, in the circumstances of this

case, to have the land included.

f

I!I! II I

f f [ l If i

~ l !

~ !I f ! f f ! I I •

5

The Court has a discretion in the matter, and it requires a very strong case to

induce the Court to permit such an inclusion.

The Court regards with strong disapproval any attempt to use the Partition

Ordinance for the purpose of dealing in an action with distinct portions of land in which

the shareholders and the interests are not the same.

I have also considered the vtews of the Plaintiff-Respondent

who argued against the 9th Defendant-Appellant and the following decided

cases seems to fortify the Plaintiff-Respondent's case.

Peiris V s. Peiris 6 NLR 321 ..

When the plaintiffs and defendants had inherited numerous lands and shares of

lands, and the plaintiffs prayed for a partition or sale of such lands, without making the

co-owners of the deceased ancestor parties to the suit -

Held, that the Ordinance No. 10 of 1863 permits an action to be raised for the partition or

sale of several lands held in common.

An undivided portion of a larger extent of land cannot be the subject of a partition

suit unless the co-owners of the whole corpus be made parties to it.

If many entire lands are sought to be partitioned together with a land not held in

common by all the plaintiffs and defendants, the proper course is to leave it to be dealt

with in a separate shit.

Eliyatamby Vs. Veeragathie 35 NLR 211. ........ .

It is not contemplated by the provisions of the Partition Ordinance that any more

than one land will be partitioned in one proceeding.

An exception may be made in cases in which more than one allotment of land are

held in common by the same set of co-owners in the same proportions.

'

rf

fr

~ i! 'sf!I! If f•[ IIlI I ! fI fIIf !I'

III

f t i ! [ I! f ! 1

6

The land No. 4 was excluded from the land sought to be

partitioned. That was on the basis that it was not co-owned at the relevant

time and same had been purchased by the 1oth Defendant and or his

successors. There is no contest on that portion being excluded. The land No.

4 is called 'Ketawalanahena'. However the 9th Defendant-Appellant

maintain that devolution of title as regards the corpus are not the same, and

the lands sought to be partitioned are different from each other. I do not

think that the evidence led at the trial support the version of the 9th

Defendant-Appellant. Nor did the 9th Defendant-Appellant raise a point of

contest and prove his version. Appellant's contentions are not pure questions

of laws and cannot be considered at the appeal stage. These positions are

more or less mix questions of fact and law.

The co-ownership to lands described in schedule No 1 - 3 in

the plaint differ from that of schedule No. 4. This court also observe that the

gth Defendant-Appellant has not proved that he has a claim to the land and

building or plantation. The plans and reports of the Licenced Surveyor do

not refer to such a position. Nor has the 9th Defendant-Appellant proved and

established his rights or title to the property. As such lands described in

schedules 1 - 3 are co-owned and as the trial Judge hold same has to be

partitioned according to the provisions of the Partition Act.

l l

~ !f I I I

~· ;

Il l ' I f f I i ! I! f f f: ' I

~ t ii IIi

II }

f '

7

In all the above circumstances there is no merit in this appeal.

This court does not wish to disturb the findings of the trial Judge. As such I

dismiss this appeal without cost. Judgment of the trial Judge affirmed.

Appeal dismissed.

(jT~:

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Il ! l ! It I II I I f ' '