==== BLOCKS ==== 

, .

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

C.A. Writ Application

No: 21/2014

In the matter of an application for an order

in the nature of a writ of certiorari to quash

the Order made by the 1st Respondent

under Section 38 Proviso (a) bearing order

No. 399 of 2013 (bearing Reference No.

4/3/10/2013/UDA/506 & bearing the

Divisional Secretary's Reference No.

100/5/3/1/83) and published in the

Extraordinary Gazette No. 1843/20 dated

31/12/2013.

1. Kaalanchiyalage Lily Nona, Of No: 54,

Winston Wickremasinghe Mawatha,

Kegalle.

2. Hallolu Ralalage Edwin Ranasinghe, Of

No: 43, Dutugamunu Mawatha, Kandy.

3. Senevirathnelage

Siriwardena, Of

Mawatha, Kegalle.

Yamuna Kanthi

02/186, Kalugalle

4. Agampodige Gunewardena, Of No: G13

Bulugahadeniya, Hettimulla.

1 I

II

I I j I ,

j i

I

j 1 I ! ! 1 I

5. Gangoda Devayalage Piyadasa, Of No: A

35 Beragala Road, Kegalle.

6. NilmalaPuneethawathie Kurukulasooriya

Of 86/287,

Bandaranayake Mawatha, Kegalle.

7. Wahumpurayalage

Manel Chandralatha, Of

No. 1/88, Kalugalle Mawatha, Kegalle.

Petitioners

1. Janaka Bandara Tennekoon, the

Minister of Lands and Land

Development, The Minister of Lands

and Land Development, "Mihikatha

Medura", No. 1200/6, Rajamalwatte

Road, Battaramulla.

2. H.T.R. Nalika Piyasena, Divisional

Secretary/ Land Acquiring Officer, Of

Divisional Secretariat, Kegalle.

3. Thusitha P. Wanigatunga, District

Secretary, Office of the District

Secretary, Kegalle.

2

1 I

1 1

1 I I

I

4. Dr. jagath Balasooriya, Minister of

National Heritage,

Ministry of National Heritage,

4th floor,

Sethsiripaya,

Batta ra m u lIa.

5. Ranjith Siyambalapitiya,

Minister of Telecommunication and

Information Technology, Ministry of

Telecommunication and Information

Technology, No: 79/1, 5th Lane,

Colombo 3.

6. G.K. Samarasinghe, Chairman of

Kegalle Urban Council, Officer of the

Urban Council, Kegalle.

7. Tharaka Balasooriya, Member of

Provincial Council, Of No: 183

Bandaranayake Mawatha, Kegalle.

8. Mahipala Herath, Chief Minister of

Sabaragamuwa Province, Ministry of

Chief Minister of Sabaragamuwa

Province, Rathnapura New Town,

Rathnapura.

9. Gotabaya Rajapakse, Secretary to the

Ministry of Defense and Urban

Development, Ministry of Defense

and Urban Development, No: 5/15,

Baladaksha Mawatha, Colombo 3.

3

I

I

I I 1 I I I I

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Decided On

10. Hon. Attorney General, Attorney

General's Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J

Dr. Sunil Coorey with Sudarshini Coorey

for the Petitioner.

M. Fernando A.S.G. with Yaresha

Fernando for the Respondent.

22.05.2014

4

I \ i

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake J.

The Petitioners have filed this application for a writ of certiorari to quash

the order made by the 1st Respondent under proviso (a) of section 38 of

land acquisition Act. After the court had issued notice on the Respondents,

the 2nd Respondent has made an application to the Magistrate, Kegalle

under Section 42(2) of the said Act to obtain immediate possession of the

land in question. The learned Magistrate has ordered issuing writ to the

fiscal to deliver possession of the land in question. Therefore, the

Petitioners have made a subsequent application for an interim relief to

grant a stay order, staying the operation of the order of the learned

Magistrate.

The 2nd Respondent, Divisional Secretary of Kegalle has filed an affidavit

dated 31.03.2014 stating that the order made in terms of Section 38

proviso (a) was published in extra ordinary gazette No: 1843/20 dated

31.12.2013 and the Petitioners were informed to formally hand over the

possession of the acquired lands. It has been further stated that the

Petitioners had handed over lot 1, 2 and 3, while they irresponsibly

declined to handover the two remaining lots, namely No: 4 and 5. In view of

the said refusal by the Petitioners and the urgent nature of the acquisition,

steps have been taken in terms of Section 42 of the relevant law.

Accordingly, fiscal delivered the possession of the two lots of land in

question on 13.03.2014, states the 2

nd Respondent in his affidavit. The fiscal

report has been tendered marked 2 R 7.

5

I ! ! {

I

I i 1

!

The learned Counsel for the Petitioners in support of the application for

interim relief submitted that the Petitioners had not been given notice

about the delivery of possession by the Magistrate Court and/or the fiscal.

Therefore, the mere report of the fiscal shall not be accepted as actual

handing over the possession of the lands, he argued. He pleaded to issue

interim relief to stay the operation of Magistrate's order to prevent

irreparable loss which will be caused to the Petitioners. The learned

Additional Solicitor General appearing for the Respondents opposing to the

application of Petitioners submitted that it is frivolous to issue a stay order

as the Magistrate's order has been already executed. She further submitted

the presence of the Petitioners was immaterial in executing the writ as it

was the delivery of the possession, of acquired lands.

According to the report of the fiscal (2R7), the 1st Petitioner had been

present at the time of the delivery of possession and there was no

resistance or ejectment that had taken place according to the report.

Therefore the Court is of the view that the argument of the Petitioners'

Counsel that the writ issued by the Magistrate has not been duly executed,

cannot be accepted. Learned Counsel for the Petitioner cited the judgment

of His Lordship Samarakoon CJ of Fernandopulle V. Minister of Land, and

Agriculture1. It has been decided in the said case that it is legitimate to hold

that the legislature has not intended to remove the Court's power of

scrutiny when the Minister made an order that

1. 79 (11) NLR 115

6

! I 1 1 :

i 1 I

immediate possession be taken of the land.

Therefore the Respondents must take cognizance that the Court has

decided to issue notice on them in the main application, after considering

its jurisdiction to review an order in the nature of the order in question in

the said application.

However, the Court decides to refuse to grant stay order, staying the

execution of Magistrates order as it has been already executed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

7