==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBUC OF SRI LANKA C.A. APPEAL No: -1309/98 (F) D.C. Puttalam Case No.L/567

1. M. M. S. Malkanthi Jayasinghe, 2. A. R. M. Joshuwa, (Deceased) Both of Pothukulama, Pallama. Presently at No.7214, Gramodhaya Mawatha, Kallalgoda, Pannipitiya.

Plaintiffs-Appellants Vs. S. A. Bandula Perera, (Deceased) Nekath RaIlage Muthumenika, S. A. Thushara Chaminda Perera, S. A. Kamantha Priyanka Thushari, S. A. Amali Bandula Perera, S. A. Ashara Suminda All of Bandula Hotel, Anamaduwa Road, Pallama.

Substituted 1 (a) to 1 (e) Defendant-Respondent W. A. Somapala, Newton Fernando, All of Pothukulama, Pallama.

Defendants - Respondents

C.A. No. 1309/98 D.C. (Puttalam) 567/L

02.07.2014

Before K. T. Chitrasiri, J

Rohan Sahabandu PC with Dulani Warawewa for the

1 st Plaintiff-Appellant

Kamran Aziz for the three Defendant-Respondents

1 st plaintiff - appellant and 1 st ,2nd & 3rd defendant - respondents are present in court.

Both Counsel submit that the parties in this case have now arrived at a

settlement of their dispute. They, accordingly tender a document to this

Court which contains the terms of settlement signed by the parties to the

action. In addition to the signatures found at the end of the said

document by which they have accepted the terms of settlement, they also

have placed their signatures in three places accepting the alterations

made to the terms of settlement in those three places. Parties, also

undertake to sign the docket confirming the settlement that they have

arrived at, today in this Court.

In the settlement referred to above, the parties also have agreed

to set aside the judgment dated 25.09.1998 of the learned District Judge

I

i 1f II!If

f!ti

fI

.\ .. ,f I

t i If !II

III

~

in order to have the terms of settlement enforced effectively. Accordingly,

the learned District Judge of Puttalam is directed to enter decree in terms

of the aforesaid settlement which is found in the document dated

02.07.2014.

Subject to the above conditions, this appeal is allowed. The judgment

dated 25.09.1998 is set aside. Parties are not entitled to the costs.

Registrar is directed to forward the record to the District Court of

Puttalam forthwith for necessary steps.

Appeal allowed.

JUDG OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Naj-

f[l

r

lItIIIII