==== BLOCKS ==== 

i I ! I

.,,-

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of a petition of appeal in

terms of section 331 (1) of the Code of

Criminal Procedure Act No 15 of 1979

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

lanka.

High Court (Colombo) Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

Case No:2451/2005 lanka.

C.A. Case No:l06/2013

Complainant

Pa hanthiyagePredeepCha ndana Pei ris

Accused

AND

PahanthiyagePredeepChandanaPeiris

Accused Appellant

1

~

1

J

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUEDON

DECIDEDON

Hon. Attorney General,

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

Complainant Respondent

H.N.J. PERERA, J

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J

L. BaranaGayanPerera for the

Accused Appellant.

Shanaka Wijesinghe DSG for the

Respondent.

04.09.2014

12.03.2015

2

t

I

.R1!I

PoWoDoCo Jayathilake, J

Pahanthiyage Pradeep ChandanaPeiris, the Accused Appellant was indicted in

the High Court of Colombo on two counts under the provisions of the poisons,

opium and dangerous drugs ordinance No. 13 of 1984. He was charged for

\

~

possession and trafficing of 17.4g of Heroin. After trial, the learned High Court

judge has convicted the Accused Appellant for the charges leveled against him

and sentenced him to life imprisonment. Being aggrieved over the aforesaid

conviction and sentence, the Accused Appellant has preferred this appeal to

this court.

Inspector Dharmadasa organized a raid on information received by

Sublnspector Maduranga on 23.09.2003. The information received was about

trafficing and transportation of heroin at a place near Kalubowila hospital. He

organized a team of a police officer's including 5.1. Maduranga for the purpose

of the said raid. Inspector Manoj Perera and another police officer went in a

private car and were waiting near Koko Gril restaurant near Kalubowila

hospital while Inspector Dharmadasa and others were in the hospital premises.

3

j I

While they were waiting after 9.00 in the night Sublnspector Maduranga

received a telephone call describing the suspect as one wearing a blue pair of

Denim trousers, and a t-shirt with a black polythene bag in his hand. On this

occasion having seen person similar to the description climbing up the

staircase of the restaurant Sublnspector Maduranga nabbed him. On a call

received from Sublnspector Maduranga, Inspector Dharmadasa and the team

arrived at the restaurant. Then Inspector Manoj produced the polythene bag

to Inspector Dharmadasa. When Inspector Dharmadasa was searching the bag,

he found 4 parcels in it. In each parcel were packets of heroin prepared for

sale. Accordingly, the suspect was arrested brought came to the Narcotic

Bereau. There were 800 packets, 455 packets, 532 packets and 800 packets in

each parcel separately. When each of them were weighed they found that

each confined 18g 300mg, llg 200mg, 12g 500mg and 18g respectively.

Altogether these packets had 60g of heroin in them. The government Analyst

had found out that there was 17.7g of pure heroin.

The Accused Appellant has made a dock statement in which he has stated as

follows.

He was 33 years. He was addicted to drugs. His mother save him from it and

bought him a three wheeler. He was hiring this three wheeler on Anderson

Road. On the day of the incident, a woman called Dammi Akka known to him

4

t

called him saying she wanted to go to Nugegoda hired his three wheeler. But

she got off at Koko Gril restaurant and went to the restaurant to bring meals.

He got down from the three wheeler to buy a cigarette. At that time, the police

officers caught him. Then, a police officer brought Dammi Akka down from

upstairs. The police officer had a parcel in his hand. He was put into the jeep.

Then, 3 friends of his came near the jeep and asked the police why he was put

into the jeep. After that, he was taken to the Narcotic Bereau. Though he told

the police that he was innocent, he acted obediently to the Police Officers

because he would have to get assaulted by the police. He said he was innocent.

The learned Counsel for the Accused Appellant pointed out some matters to

make the court accept that it is the Accused Appellant's version which is more

acceptable. The matters pointed out were some discrepancies of the evidence

given by police officers in regard to the incidents that took place at the time of

the arrest. He argued that the friends of the Accused Appellant had tried to

intervene because the Accused Appellant was innocent. But the argument of

the learned State Counsel was that the dock statement of the Accused

Appellant corroborates the evidence of prosecution witnesses.

The Accused Appellant, in his dock statement has admitted that he came by a

\

three wheeler and stopped near Koko Gril restaurant and he has further

admitted that he got down from the three wheeler and walked into the said

5

~ 1 I i I f f

I I i I ! i

1 \ j j

J

restaurant. As the arrest had been done at the said restaurant the trivial

matters such as the exact place where the Accused Appellant was arrested in

the restaurant building do not affect the prosecution case. Though the Accused

Appellant has referred to the names of some friends in his dock statement

none of them has been present before the court as witnesses. For this,

Accused Appellant has given a variety of reason. It appears that the learned

trial judge has considered the evidence of the prosecution witnesses as well as

the dock statement of the Accused Appellant carefully. The trial judge has

concluded that even though there are some short comings in the evidence, the

witnesses cannot be treated unbelievable. His conclusion in respect to the

Accused Appellant's dock statement was that there by a doubt about

prosecution case did not arise.

It was held in AG Vs Mary Theresa - 2011 2SLR292 that

"Credibility is a question of fact and now law. Appellate Judges

have repeatedly stressed the importance of trial Judges'

observations of the demeanour of witnesses in deciding questions

of fact. Demeanour represents the trial Judges' opportunity to

observe the witness and his deportment. "

6

I I l I

\

Shirani Thilakawardane J. in agreement with Sripavan J. (as he then was) and

Imam J. in the said judgment of the Supreme Court has further held

"Whilst internal contradictions or discrepancies would ordinarily

affect the trustworthiness of the witness statement, it is well

established that the court must exercise its judgment on the

nature of the inconsistency or contradiction and whether they are

material to the facts in issue. Discrepancies which do not go to the

root of the matter and assail the basic version of the witness

cannot be given too much importance".

It has been further held that

"An Appellate Court has no jurisdiction to upset trial findings of

facts that have evidentiary support. A Court of Appeal improperly

substitutes its view of the facts of a case when it seeks for

whatever reason to replace findings made by the Trial Judge".

When considering the facts involved in the instant case with the admissions

made by the Accused Appellant, there exist no question of law to be decided

by this court other than accuracy of findings by the learned trial judge. As

discussed above we see no reason to interfere with the findings of the learned

trial judge in convicting the Accused Appellant for the charges leveled against

7

" ..

him. Therefore, we confirm the conviction and the sentence by the trial court

and dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismisses.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

H.N.J. PERERA J

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

8

I

t

I

i ! I