==== BLOCKS ==== 

j 1 I j !

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

t SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 1345 / 2000 F

D.C. Polonnaruwa No. 65221L

V.P. Susil Premaratne, No. 03 Track 09, Rice Mill Complex, Divulankadawala, Medirigiriya.

Plaintiff M. Manel Dammika Cooray, No. 102, Hapitigama, Kal Eliya.

Power of Attorney Holder of the Plaintiff

Vs.

1. Hewawasampitabendi Badathurage Kantha Pushpakumara, Dharga Hotel, D.S.Senanayake Street, Hingurakgoda. 2. Muthuthanthrige Chandra Perera, Kusumpokuna Junction, Divulankadawala, Medirigiriya. 3. Vipula Gunarathne, Kusumpokuna Junction, Divulankadawala, Medirigiriya.

Defendants

AND NOW BETWEEN

V.P. Susil Premaratne, No. 03 Track 09, Rice Mill Complex, Divulankadawala, Medirigiriya.

Plaintiff Appellant M. Manel Dammika Cooray, No. 102, Hapitigama, Kal Eliya.

Power of Attorney Holder of the Plaintiff Appellant

Vs

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

2

I. Hewawasampitabendi Badathurage

Kantha Pushpakumara, Dharga Hotel, D.S.Senanayake Street, Hingurakgoda. 2. Muthuthanthrige Chandra Perera, Kusumpokuna Junction, Divulankadawala, Medirigiriya. 3. Vipula Gunarathne, Kusumpokuna Junction, Divulankadawala, Medirigiriya.

Defendants Respondents

UPAL Y ABEYRATHNE J.

Prashan Mendis for the Plaintiff Appellant.

Udhitha Egalahewa with Jagath Wickremanayake

for the Plaintiff Respondent-Respondent

21.09.2011

12 ~.102011 ~t--

The Appellant instituted the said action against the Defendant

Respondents (hereinafter referred to as the Respondents) in the District Court of

Polonnaruwa seeking for a declaration and for a permanent injunction as prayed

for in the plaint. The Respondents filed their answer praying for a dismissal of the

Appellant's action and for ajudgement as prayed for in the answer.

The trial commenced on 05.09.2000 and the parties have settled the

issues of the case on the same date. After framing the issues the learned Counsel

I

3

for the Appellant has moved for a date to lead evidence. It appears from the

proceedings of the said date that the learned Counsel has sought a final date for the

trial on payment of costs since the Power of Attorney Holder of the Appellant who

was present before court was not able to give evidence.

Thereafter the learned Additional District Judge instead of making

order with regard to the said application for postponement, has proceeded to

dismiss the Appellant's action on the ground that the Appellant had obtained dates

over three years to get ready since the case first fixed for trial. The present appeal

has been preferred by the Plaintiff Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the

Appellant) from the said order of the learned Additional District Judge of

Polonnaruwa dated 05.09.2000.

The learned trial judge was of the VIew that the application for the

postponement was not a fair application. But he has failed to make an order with

regard to the application for the postponement on payment of costs. Proceedings of

the day in question does not reflect that the learned trial Judge, after dealing with

the application for postponement, has proceeded to hear the case according to law.

It is important to note that the Respondent too had set up a claim in reconvention in

his answer.

With regard to the adjournments of the hearing of an action Section

143 of the Civil Procedure Code (CPC) stipulates as follows;

"143(1) The court may, if sufficient cause be shown, at any stage of the action grant time

to the parties, or to any of them, and may from time to time adjourn the hearing of the

action.

Provided however, that no adjournment in excess of six weeks may be granted except in

exceptional circumstances, and for reasons to be recorded.

4

(2) In all such cases the court shall fix a day for the further hearing of the action, and may

make such order as it thinks fit with respect to the costs occasioned by the adjournment:

Provided that, when the hearing of evidence has once begun, the hearing of the action

shall be continued from day to day until all the witnesses in attendance have been

examined, unless the court finds the adjournment of the hearing to be necessary for

reasons to be recorded and signed by the Judge."

Section 145 of the Code stipulates that "If any party to an action, to

whom time has been granted, fails to produce his evidence, or to cause the

attendance of his witnesses, or to perform any other act necessary to the further

progress of the action, for which time has been allowed, the court may,

notwithstanding such default, proceed to decide the action forthwith."

It seems from the said Section that if any party to an action fails to

carry out purpose of adjournment, notwithstanding such default the court shall

proceed to decide the action forthwith. It appears that Section 145 does not

empower a trial court to dismiss an action forthwith.

In the case ofSatuhamy Vs Jayasinghe (1920) 7 CWR 200 it was held

that "the Judge had no power to dismiss the action for non-compliance with the

order. That the dismissal of the action was unreasonable as the Plaintiff could not

be held responsible for the surveyor's delay in submitting the plan".

In the case of Carolis Appuhamy V s Peter Singho (1924) 26 NLR

376; 2 Times 240, it was stated that "Where a party to an action has been granted

time to produce certain evidence and fails to do so at the hearing, the court has no

power to dismiss the action. It must proceed to hear such evidence as may be

tendered on behalf of the party in default and decide the action forthwith".

5

The learned Counsel for the Respondent drew the attention of this

court to the cases of Stephen Fernando Vs Jemes Fernando (1953) 55 NLR 119

and Syadu Varusai Vs Weerasekera (1956)58 NLR 89. In the case of Stephen

Fernando the court did not dismiss the action after the refusing of the application

for a postponement and the court has proceeded to hear the case. In Siyadu Varusai

case also the court did not dismiss the action and has proceeded to deliver the

judgement of the case. Hence the decisions of said two cases have no application to

the present case.

When I consider the circumstances of the present case in the light of

the said judicial pronouncement it seems to me that the learned trial judge has

failed to adhere to the provisions contained in Section 145 of the CPC. The learned

trial judge has dismissed the action forthwith instead of proceeding to decide the

action forthwith. The said procedure adopted by the learned trial judge is in

violation of Section 145 of the CPC. Therefore I set aside the order of the learned

Additional District Judge of Polonnaruwa dated 05.09.2000 and allow the appeal

of the Appellant without costs. The learned trial judge is directed to commence the

proceedings of the case on the issues already raised by the parties and to hear and

conclude the case according to law.

Appeal allowed

Judge of the Court of Appeal