==== BLOCKS ==== 

l I

t

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for Mandates

in the nature of writs of Certiorari and

Mandamus in terms of Article 140 of the

Constitution of the Democratic Socialist

Republic of Sri lanka.

*******

C.A. (Writ) Application No.65/2011

1

Vs

Galkotuwegedara Dharmadasa

Gurumada, Gangeyaya, Sorabora,

Mahiyanganaya.

PETITIONER

1. R.P.R. Rajapaksha

Commissioner General of Lands

Land Commissioner General's

Department

No. 07, Hector Kobbekaduwa Mw

Colombo 07.

2. VV.Karunadasa

Nuwan Niwasa,

Gurumada, Gangeyaya

Mahiyanganaya.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

2

3. Assistant Commissioner of Lands

Deputy Land Commissioner's Office

Mahiyanganaya.

4. M.M. Thilakarathne

Deputy Land Commissioner

Deputy Land Commissioner's Office

Mahiyanganaya.

5. Land Officer

Deputy Land Commissioner's Office

Mahiyanganaya.

RESPONDENTS

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

: Dr. Jayatissa De Costa PC with

Wijeratne Hewage for the

Petitioner.

Mr. Unamboowa D.S.G. for the

1st, 3rd and 5th Respondents.

: 1ih September, 2014

: 19th December, 2014

Oeepali Wijesundera J.

The petitioner has prayed for a writ of certiorari to quash the order

(P6) of the 1st. 3rc!. 4th and 5th respondents cancelling the permit given to

the petitioner and also for a writ of Mandamus to compel the 1st. 3rd, 4th

and 5th respondents to implement the decision referred in P3 and P4.

The petitioner informed court that he is only seeking the relief in prayer

(b) of the petition. The petitioner was granted a permit dated 29/03/2001

under the Land Development Ordinance for the land described in the

permit marked P1. The petitioner has partly built a house in the said

land and given it to the 2nd respondent. The 2nd respondent when asked

to leave has refused and petitioner has filed an action in the District

Court where he has got the judgment to eject the 2nd respondent. The

2nd respondent has filed an appeal in the High Court against the said

judgment which the petitioner stated is still pending.

While the District Court case was pending the 3rd respondent has

sent the letter marked P3 to the petitioner informing him that the 2nd

respondent will be given a land in extant of two roods outside the one

acre portion of land already given to him by permit marked P1.

3

The learned counsel for the petitioner stated that the petitioner

received a notice dated 15/09/2008 from the land office asking him to

explain as to why the permit issued to him should not be cancelled. The

petitioner has presented himself before the relevant officers and told

them that he has not violated the conditions of the permit. He was sent a

letter marked as P6 cancelling the permit given to him. The petitioner

has appealed to the respondents to remove the cancellation in two

letters copies are marked as P8 and P9 both sent in November 2008. In

the meantime the petitioner has got the District Court order implemented

by a writ pending appeal and recovered the possession of the land.

The petitioner has received a notice to quit the said land (marked

P15) dated 17/02/2010 the respondents have said that the petitioner

has violated the conditions of the permit by alienating the land therefore

in terms of Sec. 110 of the Land Development Ordinance the order

cancelling the permit was issued.

The learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that respondents

in cancelling the permit have not discharged these duties under Sec.

110 of the said Act properly and have acted in breach of the legitimate

expectations of the petitioner. The petitioner's submission was that he

4

presented himself at the inquiry and made it clear to them that the 2nd

respondent was already in possession of the said land when the said P1

permit was issued to him therefore the respondents can not say he

alienated the said land. Therefore the respondents in cancelling the

permit have not discharge these duties under Sec. 110 properly and

justifiably.

The counsel for the petitioner further submitted dispute the

undertaking given by the respondent by P3 to the petitioner to settle the

dispute between him and the 2nd respondent by giving him a block of

land the respondents have cancelled the permit given to the petitioner

disregarding the undertaking given to the petitioner and acting in breach

of the legitimate expectations of the petitioner citing the judgments in Dr.

Gajaweera Vs Air Marshall G.D. Perera and Others 2005 2 SLR 224

and Wickramaratne Vs Jayaratne and Others 2001 3 SLR 161 stated

that decisions affecting legitimate expectations are subject to judicial

review.

The Learned Deputy Solicitor General submitted that the letter P6

cancelling the permit given to the petitioner was sent on 16/11/2008 and

the petitioner seeking to quash the said order of cancellation by a writ of

5

I I certiorari has filed the instant application on 31/01/2011 approximately

three years later.

The counsel for the respondents stated that clause 13 of the

permit states that the permit holder shall not execute or effect any

deposition of the land provided that he may with the consent of the

Government agent, mortgage his interests in the land to a society

registered under the Co-operative Societies Ordinance of which he is a

member. He stated that petitioner has conceded that he alienated the

land to 2nd respondent at the inquiry thus petitioner has disposed of the

land contravening the conditions of the permit and provisions of Sec. 46

of Land Development Ordinance.

The respondents further submitted that both the petitioner and the

2nd respondent has suppressed the institution of the District Court case

and the appeal thereafter to the Additional Land Commissioner and due

to this suppression the letter P3 was sent as he was unaware of the said

case. He further stated that both the petitioner and the 2nd respondent at

the Mobile Service held at the Divisional Secretariat on 01/07/2004 have

agreed to divide the land as stated in P3.

6

The respondents further stated that the Commissioner General of

Land by letters dated 21/01/2010 and 17/02/2010 P12 and P14 has

informed the petitioner the reasons for the cancellation of the said

permit under Sec. 110 of the Land Development Ordinance and after a

delay of one year this application has been filed and that the long delay

does not warrant a writ of certiorari and cited the judgment in President

of Malalgodapitiya Co-operative Society Vs Arbitrator of Co-

operative Societies Galle 51 NLR 167.

Sec. 110 of the Land Development Ordinance states;

110 (1) If on the date and at the time and place specified in

a notice issued under section 106 or appointed by

the Government Agent under section 109 (2) the

permit holder appears and offers to show cause why

his permit should not be cancelled, the Government

Agent may, if he is satisfied after inquiry that there

has been a breach of any of the conditions of the

permit, make order cancelling the permit.

7

- ..

This section vests the authority on the Government Agent to

cancel permits issued under the said Ordinance if he is satisfied after an

inquiry that the permit holder has violated conditions of the permit. P1

permit speCifically states in clause 13 of the schedule.

liThe permit-holder shall not execute or e//ect any disposition 0/

the land, provided that he may, with the consent 0/ the Government

Agent, mortgage his interest in the land to a society registered under

the Co-operative Societies Ordinance, o/which he is a member."

In R1 the 2nd respondent has stated at the inquiry that he paid Rs.

5,000/= to the petitioner to buy the land and also stated that % share of

the land belongs to the petitioner which fact they both have agreed at

the Mobile Service of the Land Commissioner. The respondents have

acting under Sec. 115 of the said Ordinance held the inquiry and

decided on Sec. 110 that the petitioner has violated the conditions of the

permit issued to him. Petitioner and the 2nd respondent both have not

informed the inquiring officer about the land case filed in the District

Court.

8

l I 1

1

· .

The petitioner cannot say he had legitimate expectations which

were violated by the said cancellation P6. He was informed of this in

2008 by P5. Before that he has filed a case in the District Court and

knew the outcome of the land officers.

The petitioner suppressed all these from the inquiring officer. The

respondents have acted within the four corners of the law.

Petitioner has waited until 31/01/2011 to file the instant

application to quash the said cancellation P6 which is we" over two

years. He has not given a justifiable reason for the undue delay.

For the afore stated reasons the application of the petitioner is

refused without costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

9