==== BLOCKS ==== 

1 I l

1 4 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 1133 12000 F

D.C. Gampaha No. 361231L

1. Rohana Wijewardena, 2. Athula Wijewardena, 3. Milton Rupasinghe, All of No. 7, Dehiwala Road, Pepiliyana, Borelesgamuwa.

Plaintiffs

Vs.

Ranasinghe Arachchige Nandasena Ranasinghe, No. 132/26, 'Saraboomi', Kirindiwela Road, Weliweriya.

Defendant

AND NOW BETWEEN

Ranasinghe Arachchige Nandasena Ranasinghe, No. 132126, 'Saraboomi', Kirindiwela Road, Weliweriya.

Defendant Appellant Vs

1. Rohana Wijewardena, 2. Athula Wijewardena, 3. Milton Rupasinghe, All of No. 7, Dehiwala Road, Pepiliyana, Borelesgamuwa.

Plaintiff Respondents

f lI (

iI

,

t

BEFORE

COUNSEL

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS ON :

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

S.A.D.S. Suraweera for the Substituted

Defendant Appellant

S udath Bandara with Ranil Samarasuriya for

the Plaintiff Respondents

14.10.2013

13.11.2013

13.02.2014

The Plaintiff Respondents (hereinafter referred to as the

Respondents) instituted the said action against the Defendant Appellant

(hereinafter referred to as the Appellant) in the District Court of Gampaha seeking

for a declaration of title and ejectment of the Appellant from the land described in

the schedule to the plaint. The Appellant filed an answer denying the averments

contained in the plaint and praying for a dismissal of the Respondents' action.

The case proceeded to trial on 09 issues. After trial the learned

District Judge delivered judgment in favour of the Respondents. Being aggrieved

by the said judgment dated 20.11.2000 the Appellant has preferred the instant

appeal to this Court.

It was common ground that the Appellant did not have any title deed

to claim the ownership of the land in suit. His position was that a person called

Opatha who said to be an owner of Saraboomi Investment Company (Pvt) Limited

II

~ I II

I l

3

agreed with him to sell the land in suit for a sum ofRs 30,0001- and he paid to said

Opatha a sum of Rs. 15,0001- as an advance for the said transaction and thereafter

he entered in to the possession of the said land and spent about Rs. 127,7951- for

the development of the said land by constructing a building thereon.

It was clear from the evidence that the Appellant's claim was based

upon an oral agreement. The Respondent has denied the existence of such an

agreement with the Appellant. The learned counsel for the Respondent contended

that the said purported agreement is an informal oral agreement and therefore the

said agreement per se cannot be enforced in view of the mandatory provisions

contained in Section 2 of the Prevention of Fraud Ordinance.

In terms of Section 2 of the Prevention of Fraud Ordinance no

contract or agreement affecting land or other immovable property shall be of force

or avail in law unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the party making

the same, or by some person lawfully authorized by him or her in the presence of a

licensed notary public and two or more witnesses present at the same time, and

unless the execution of such writing, deed, or instrument be duly attested by such

notary and witnesses.

The Appellant did not produce such an agreement entered with the

Respondent. Also, he did not call said Opatha to give evidence in order to establish

any contractual obligation between the Appellant and the Respondent. Apart from

that the Appellant did not produced the receipt he obtained for the alleged payment

of Rs. 15,0001- which had been paid as an advance for the said land transaction.

The Appellant has further stated that he had spent a sum of Rs 130,000/- for the

I I II

f ,

I \

'" I ,

1

\ i I

4

construction of a building in the land in suit. But the Appellant has not led

adequate evidence in order to prove the alleged construction of a building.

In the said circumstances I find no reason to interfere with the said

judgment of the learned District Judge dated 20.11.2000. Therefore I dismiss the

instant appeal of the Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

, } t I I ! IIIIIi

t