==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Sigiriya Village Hotels PLC,

No.53-1/1, Sir Baron Jayatilaka

Mawatha,

Colombo 01.

Petitioner

CASE NO: CA/WRIT/434/2016

Vs.

1. W.S.K. Pathirathne,

Director General,

Department of Wildlife

Conservation,

No.811A, Jayanthipura,

Battaramulla.

2. W.M.L.K. Vasala,

Assistant Wildlife Officer,

Department of Wildlife

Conservation,

Sigiriya-bittu Office,

Pekkulama.

2

3. Sri Lanka Tourism,

Development Authority,

No.80, Galle Road,

Colombo 03.

4. H.P.P.A. Hewapathirana,

Divisional Secretary Dambulla,

Divisional Secretariat,

Dambulla.

5. D.P.G. Kumarasiri,

District Secretary Matale,

District Secretariat,

Matale.

Respondents

Before: Mahinda Samayawardhena, J.

Arjuna Obeyesekere, J.

Counsel: Sanjeewa Jayawardena, P.C., with Dilumi de

Alwis for the Petitioner.

Vikum de Abrew, S.D.S.G., for the

Respondents.

Argued on: 04.08.2020

Decided on: 17.09.2020

3

Mahinda Samayawardhena, J.

The petition runs into 34 pages. There are 78 main paragraphs

in the body of the petition. The prayer to the petition alone

consists of 25 reliefs from (a) to (y). Unless pleadings are concise

and not prolix, Court will not see the wood for the trees.

Incidentally, this is a Forest Case!

It is reassuring that the Petitioner in the first paragraph of the

36 page consolidated written submission captures the real

grievance of the Petitioner in the following terms.

The Petitioner has come before Your Lordships’ Court

challenging the impropriety on the part of the 1st and 2nd

Respondents in conducting a purported inquiry and the

INSISTENCE OF THE 1ST AND 2ND RESPONDENTS TO

SUMMON THE CHAIRMAN AND DIRECTORS OF THE

PETITIONER COMPANY FOR THE PURPORTED INQUIRY

conducted by the 1st and 2nd Respondents in respect of the

Tourist Board land on which the Sigiriya Village Hotel is

situated together with a further land which is one

contiguous piece of land, but which is segregated,

(hereinafter referred to as the ‘Farm land’), which has been

possessed by the Petitioner for over 35 years and

challenging the purported basis of the proceedings before

the Magistrate’s Court of Dambulla, wherein the 1st and 2nd

Respondents produced two of the employees of the

Petitioner who had been engaged in farming on the Farm

Land on the purported basis that the said two employees

had been allegedly engaged in clearing state land.

4

From the above summary and the “conclusion” of the said

written submission, it is clear that the main purpose of filing

this application is to prevent the 1st and 2nd Respondents from

calling the Chairman of the Petitioner company to make a

statement in furtherance of an inquiry conducted by the 2nd

Respondent. I will in a while explain what this inquiry is about

and on what basis the Chairman is called to make a statement.

The said Respondents did not require the directors of the

Petitioner company to make statements although the Petitioner

drags them also onto the scene.

The reliefs sought by the Petitioner in the prayer to the petition

are as follows:

(a) Issue Notice on the Respondents;

(b) Make order in terms of Article 140 of the Constitution and

call for and examine the entire record of the subject matter

of this application and of the purported impugned inquiry,

(c) Issue a mandate in the nature of a writ of certiorari,

quashing the decision of the 1st and/or 2nd Respondent

and/or their servants and agents and/or any one or more

of them, that the Petitioner is not entitled to the possession

of the land upon which the Petitioner’s Hotel is situated i.e.

the Hotel Land and the Farm land and/or that the

Petitioner is in illegal occupation of the same and/or that

the Petitioner is in violation of the Flora and Fauna

Protection Ordinance, as amended, or any other law;

5

(d) Issue a mandate in the nature of a writ of certiorari

quashing the decision of the 1st and/or 2nd Respondent

and/or any one or more of them that the Petitioner is not

entitled to possess and occupy the Hotel Land and the

Farm land and/or that the Petitioner is in illegal occupation

of the same;

(e) Issue a mandate in the nature of a writ of certiorari,

quashing the decision of the 1st and/or 2nd Respondent

and/or their servants and agents to inquire into the matters

impugned and/or to institute proceedings against the

Petitioner company, subject to such terms and conditions, if

any, as your Lordships’ Court shall seem fit;

(f) Issue a mandate in the nature of a writ of certiorari,

quashing the decision to conduct the inquiry by summoning

the Chairman of the Petitioner company, Mr. S.D.R.

Arudpragasam and/or the board of directors and also

quash the directions issued (P-26 and P31) summoning the

Chairman of the Petitioner company Mr. S.D.R.

Arudpragasam;

(g) Strictly without any form of prejudice whatsoever to the

foregoing, issue a writ of prohibition, in the event of any

duly constructed inquiry, as countenanced by law,

proceeding against the Petitioner, restraining the

summoning of the Chairman and the members of the Board

of Directors of the Petitioner company and permit the

Petitioner company to appoint one or more nominees on

behalf of the Petitioner company who are fully conversant

6

with all matters constituting the subject matter of the

inquiry, to represent the Petitioner at such duly constituted

inquiry,

(h) Issue a mandate in the nature of a writ of certiorari,

quashing all consequential decisions, steps or measures

taken by the 1st and 2nd Respondents and/or their servants

and agents, in respect of and in pursuance of the impugned

inquiry,

(i) In the event of a decision having been taken to institute

proceedings in the Magistrate’s Court against the Petitioner

and/or its Chairman and/or any director, issue a writ of

certiorari quashing the same,

(j) In the event of any proceedings having been instituted in

the Magistrate’s Court against the Petitioner company

and/or its Chairman or directors, issue a writ of certiorari

quashing all such proceedings, subject to such terms and

conditions as Your Lordships’ Court shall seem fit,

(k) Issue a mandate in the nature of a writ of prohibition,

prohibiting the 2nd Respondent from proceeding with the

purported, impugned inquiry, subject to such terms and

conditions if any, as Your Lordships’ Court shall seem fit;

(l) Without prejudice to the foregoing, issue a writ of

prohibition restraining the 2nd and 1st Respondents and

their servants and agents from inquiring or proceeding in

any manner whatsoever against the Hotel Land that has

7

been leased out to the Petitioner by the 3rd Respondent

morefully described in the lease agreement marked P10,

(m) Issue a mandate in the nature of a writ of mandamus

compelling the 1st and 2nd Respondents and or their

servants and agents to move the Magistrate’s Court of

Dambulla in case B 453/2016 to have the Petitioner

company discharged from the proceedings, or to refrain

from proceeding further against the Petitioner and/or its

employees and/or its servants and agents subject to such

terms and conditions, if any, as to Your Lordship’s Court

shall seem fit,

(n) Without any form of prejudice to the foregoing, issue a

mandate in the nature of a writ of mandamus directing the

2nd Respondent to confine its purported inquiry to the

matters reported to the Magistrate’s Court of Dambulla in

Case B 453/2016,

(o) Issue a mandate in the nature of a writ of prohibition

restraining the 1st and 2nd Respondent and their servants

and agents from arresting and/or detaining the Chairman

or members of the board of directors or the employees of the

Petitioner;

(p) Issue an interim order staying and suspending the

purported inquiry being conducted by the 2nd Respondent,

pending the final hearing and determination of this

Application;

8

(q) Issue an interim order restraining the 2nd Respondent from

summoning the Chairman of the Petitioner company, Mr.

S.D.R. Arudpragasam and/or the members of the board of

directors to present themselves at the purported inquiry

impugned in these proceedings, and/or from proceeding in

any manner or form against them, until the final

determination of this application,

(r) Pending the final hearing and determination of this

application, restrain the 1st and 2nd Respondents and their

servants and agents from arresting any of the employees or

the Chairman or the board members of the Petitioner;

(s) Strictly without prejudice to the foregoing, issue an interim

order restraining the 2nd and 1st Respondents and their

servants and agents from inquiring or proceeding in any

manner whatsoever against the land that has been leased

out to the Petitioner by the 3rd Respondent, morefully

described in the agreement marked P10,

(t) Issue an interm order staying and suspending all

proceedings in the Magistrate’s Court of Dambulla Case B

453/2016, until the final hearing and determination of this

application,

(u) In the event of a decision having been taken to institute

proceedings in the Magistrate’s Court against the Petitioner

and/or its Chairman and/or any director, issue an interim

order, staying the same until the final determination of this

application,

9

(v) In the event of any proceedings having been instituted in

the Magistrate’s Court against the Petitioner company

and/or its Chairman or directors, issue an interim order,

staying the same until the final determination of this

application,

(w) Issue an interim order/directive on the Respondents,

directing them to strictly maintain the status quo until the

final determination of this application,

(x) For costs; and

(y) Such other and further reliefs that Your Lordships’ Court

shall seem meet.

Let me briefly outline the background facts.

The Petitioner was given a land in extent of 16 acres 3 roods and

7.5 perches on a long lease – vide P8 and P10. It appears this is

where the Sigiriya Village Hotel is situated. I presume there is

no contest over this Hotel Land.

The Petitioner says, subject to a formal lease agreement being

executed, the then Government Agent of Matale by P13 dated

24.09.1980 placed the Petitioner in possession of another

portion of land in extent of 7 acres 1 rood and 32 perches

adjoining the said Hotel Land in order to run a Farm. The

formal lease agreement is yet to be executed. The Petitioner

does not seek relief on the basis of non-execution of the formal

lease of the said Farm Land.

10

It is noticeable that P13 dated 24.09.1980 is addressed not to

the Petitioner company but to a different company, which the

Petitioner in the written submission says is the parent company

of the Petitioner company. But the Petitioner company was

incorporated in 1978.

The 4th Respondent Divisional Secretary of Dambulla has

tendered with his statement of objections an Annual Permit

marked 4R1 to say that the said permit in respect of a land in

extent of 15 acres and 1 rood, situated in front of the Sigiriya

Village Hotel, was given to the Sigiriya Village Hotel. The 4th

Respondent says the payment receipts tendered by the Petitioner

marked P16(a)-P16(d) are in relation to the said Permit Land and

not in relation to the Farm Land as claimed by the Petitioner in

the petition. This Annual Permit has been issued in the name of

the Manager of the Sigiriya Village Hotel. Strangely, the

Petitioner has neither disclosed this Annual Permit in the

petition nor said a word about it in the counter affidavit.

However in the consolidated written submission, the Petitioner

admits that the receipts tendered as rentals paid on the Farm

Land are in fact rentals paid on the Permit Land, which is

different to both the Hotel Land and the Farm Land.

In a writ application, the Petitioner cannot suppress or

misrepresent material facts. In my view, this Permit Land

comprising 15 acres and 1 rood lying in front of the Hotel Land

given on an Annual Permit is a material fact. The Petitioner is

continuously paying annual rental on this land. The Petitioner

could not have forgotten about it. Nor could the Petitioner have

confused this 15 acre Permit Land with the Hotel Land and the

11

Farm Land. The Petitioner in paragraph 40 refers to its efforts

“to obtain a long term lease on the Farm Land, and the other

lands in its close proximity”. This Permit Land is important

because the 4th Respondent in his statement of objections says

the Government Surveyor was informed to survey the Permit

Land and the Hotel Land.

As I have said above, the Petitioner’s grievance is against the 1st

and 2nd Respondents, the Director General of Wildlife

Conservation and the Wildlife Range Officer at Sigiriya,

respectively. To be precise, the Petitioner is challenging the 2nd

Respondent’s attempts to call the Chairman of the Sigiriya

Village Hotel to make a statement in respect of further

investigation into the matter reported to the Magistrate’s Court

of Dambulla in Case No. B/453/2016.

Proceedings before the Magistrate’s Court had been initiated

upon two persons being arrested whilst clearing the Sigiriya

Sanctuary, allegedly on the instructions of the Manager of the

Sigiriya Village Hotel. The Petitioner in paragraph 41 admits

that the arrested persons are Hotel employees. The Manager of

the Hotel was arrested and produced before the learned

Magistrate on this basis.

The Petitioner in paragraph 13 of the petition acknowledges that

the subject matter of this application came under the purview of

the 1st and 2nd Respondents with the declaration of the land

described in the Extraordinary Government Gazette No.594/12

dated 26.01.1990 marked P3 as the Sigiriya Sanctuary.

12

The first B Report filed in the Magistrate’s Court dated

05.05.2016 reads as follows:

වන#$ සංර(ෂණ ෙදපා/තෙ123ෙ4 567ය අඩ$යට අය< ෙ>(?ලම

BCD කා/යාලෙF වන#$ අඩ$ සහකාර ඩH.එ1.එJ.ෙ(. වාසල වන මම

1979 අංක 15 දරණ අපරාධ නL $M$ධාන සංNහ පනෙ< අංක 115 සහ

136(01) වග2P Qකාරව ෙමම ගR අMකරණය ෙවත ෙගෟරවෙය2

වා/තා කර TUන වග න1,

ෙමම අMකරණ බල 5මාව 3ල WXU එන1 1990.01.26 YනැP අංක

594/12 අP $ෙශ්ෂ ගැසC ]ෙ4දනෙය2 Qකාශයට ප< කරන ලද

567ය අභය_`යට අය< මaල(තැව Nාම ]ලධාb වසෙ1 WXU ??R

මහaයාව කැෙJ න1 567ය $ෙJc ෙහdටලය ඉYකර ඇP යාබද

QෙgශෙF අනවසර කැලැ එh ibම(ද අප ]ලධාb2 $T2 ]b(ෂණය

කරන ලj. එම QෙgශෙF අනවසර ඉYib1 ස1බ2ධෙය2 කRk

$ම/ශනය කර`2 පවl. ෙමය 1964 අංක 44, 1970 අංක 01, 1993

අංක 49 හා 2009 අංක 22 දරණ පන< ම62 සංෙශdMත වනස<ව හා

වෘ(ෂලතා ආඥා පනෙ< (469 වන අMකා7ය) Qකාරව දpව1 ලැBය හැi

වරදවJ Tqෙකාට ඇP බවට ෙගෟරවෙය2 වා/තා කර TU`.

අ<අඩංrවට ග< සැකකRව2ෙs න1 හා hWනය2:

01. hයන පPරනලාෙs tරංග මෙහ්ෂ්පPරන, ඉYගස්වැව, 567ය.

02. ෙපdරම මරදාන ගම බ2qල ?මාර, කායංවල, 567ය.

අ<අඩංrවට ග< භාuඩ:

පැ.01 vට සXත උදx 02

ඉJලා TUන ]ෙයdග:

13

01. අ<අඩංrවට ගත සැකකRව2 ර(yත බ2ධනාගාර ගත ibම ෙහd

tqt ]ෙයdගය( ලබාෙදන ෙලස<,

02. අධz(ෂ, 567ය $ෙJc ෙහාෙටJ ෙපෟgගhක සමාගම, 08-02/01

ෙයd( ආෙ({ ෙගාඩනැ6Jල ෙJ|2 බැස්Uය2 මාවත, ෙකාළඹ-01 යන

අයට TතාT ]?< කරන ෙලස<,

03. ෙ1 ස1බ2ධෙය2 තවqරට< වැ|qර $මරෂණය කර වා/තා ibමට

ඉY7 Yනය( ලබාෙදන ෙලස<, ෙගෟරවෙය2 ඉJලා TU`.

Although the Petitioner seeks to quash various purported

decisions made by the Respondents, no such decisions have

been tendered. In fact, there are no such decisions. The Court

cannot quash purported decisions on a hypothetical basis. Apart

from the uncontested Lease Agreement P10, which relates to the

Hotel Land, the only two documents identified by the Petitioner

in the prayer to the petition are P26 and P31 whereby the

Chairman of the Petitioner company was asked to be present

before the 2nd Respondent to record a statement.

P26 reads as follows:

ඩH.එ1.එJ.ෙ(. වාසල,

අඩ$ සහකාර,

වන#$ BCD කා/යාලය,

567ය,

ෙ>(?ලම.

2016.07.31

14

• දාම2 රාෙc2€1 අR>Qකාශ1,

සභාපP,

567 $ෙJc ෙහdටලය,

567ය. B 453 / 2016 නLෙ4 $ම/ෂණ සඳහා Qකාශ ලබා ගැ‚ම

උ(ත අංක යටෙ< ෙගාƒ කර ඇP නLවට අදාල 567 $ෙJc ෙහdටලය

$T2 567ය අභය _`යට අය< ඉඩම( අනවරෙය2 „(P $…ම(

ස1බ2ධෙය2 $ම/ෂණය( Tq කර`2 පවl.

$ම/ෂණෙFj අනාවරණය † කRk අƒව උ(ත ෙහdටලෙF සභාපPවරයා

ෙලස, • දාම2 රාෙc2€1 අR>Qකාශ1 යන ඔබ කටˆ3 කරන බවට

කRk අනාවරණය ‰ ඇත.

එබැ$2 උ(ත නLෙ4 $මරෂණ කටˆ3 සඳහා වන ස<<ව හා වෘ(ෂලතා

ආර(ෂක ආඥා පනෙ< 67(ඈ)(1) වග2Pය හා 1979 අංක 15 දරණ

අපරාධ නL $ධාන සංNහ පනෙ< xi වන ප7‹ෙ‹දෙF 109(06) වග2Pය

Qකාරව මා ෙවත පැවb ඇP බලතල අƒව 567 $ෙJc ෙහdටලය අය<

සමාගෙමX සභාපP ෙලස කටˆ3 කරන • දාම2 රාෙc2€1 අR>Qකාශ1

යන අයට අදාල ඉඩෙමX Tයx X`ක1 ස1බ2ධ ෙJඛන සXතව

2016.08.08 වන Yන ෙප. 9.30ට පමණ 567ය අඩ$ කා/යාලයට

පැ`ණ Qකාශය( ලබා ෙදන ෙම2 කාR•කව ඉJලා TU`.

ෙමයට,

(signed)

$ම/ෂණ ]ළධා7

It is significant to note from page 2 of the Magistrate’s Court

case record tendered by the Petitioner with the motion dated

15

23.06.2017 that the 2nd Respondent particularly informed the

learned Magistrate about P26 by way of a further report.

P31 reads as follows:

ඩH.එ1.එJ.ෙ(. වාසල,

වන#$ අඩ$ සහකාර,

වන#$ BCD කා/යාලය,

ෙ>(?ලම, 567ය,

2016.10.18

• දාම2 රාෙc2€1 අR>Qකාශ1,

සභාපP,

567 $ෙJc ෙහdටලය,

567ය.

Ž453/2016 නLෙ4 $ම/ශන කටˆ3 සඳහා සහය ලබා ගැ‚ම

උ(ත අංක දරණ නLෙ4 $ම/ශන කටˆ3 ]T ආකාරව පව<වාෙගන යාම

සඳහා සහය ලබා ෙදන ෙම2 2016.07.31 YනැP hWය ම•2 ඔබ ෙවත

ද2වන ලද අතර, ඒ සඳහා ඔබ $T2 ෙවන< ]ළධා7ෙය? න1කර එවා

PB•. එම න1 කළ ]ළධා7යා † ]ශාM ෙප7ය>ෙපRම යන ]ළධා7යා

$T2 ලබා q2 Qකාශය2ට අƒව තව qරට< $ම/ශන කටˆ3 Tq කළ

ˆ3ව P‘ බැ$2 අදාල hW ෙJඛන සXතව 2016.08.23 නැවත එම

]ළධා7යාට 567ය කා/යාලයට අදාල Qකාශ ලබා ෙදන ෙම2 එYන දැƒ1

ෙදන ලj.

එන’< එYන වන $ට අවශz ෙJඛන ෙසායා ගැ‚මට Qමාද බැ$2

පැ`“මට ෙනාහැi බව<, ඒ සඳහා මසක පමණ කාලය( ලබා ෙදන

16

ෙලස< 2016.08.22 වන YනැP hWය( ම•2 මා ෙවත ද2වා ඇත.

ඔ”ෙs ඉJ•මට අƒව මසක පමණ කාලය( ගත ‰ ඇත< ෙ1 ද(වා

අදාල ෙJඛන සXතව පැ`ණ Qකාශ ලබා jම( Tqකර ෙනාමැත.

එෙම2ම ෙ1 ද(වා කරන ලද $ම/ශන වලට අƒව උ(ත නLවට අදාලව

567 $ෙJc ෙහdටJ සමාගෙ1 සභාපPවරයා ෙලස කටˆ3 කරන •

දාම2 රාෙc2€2 අR>Qකාශ1 යන ඔබෙsම Qකාශ ලබා ගැ‚මට

අවශzව ඇත.

එබැ$2 වනස<ව හා වෘ(ෂලතා ආර(ෂක ආඥා පනෙ< 67(ඈ)(1)

වග2Pය හා 1979 අංක 15 දරණ අපරාධ නL $ධාන සංNහ පනෙ< XI

වන ප7‹ෙ‹දෙF 109(6) වග2Pය Qකාරව මා ෙවත පැවb ඇP බලතල

අƒව 567 $ෙJc ෙහdටJ සමාගෙමX සභාපPවරයා ෙලස කටˆ3 කරන

ඔබ 2016.10.31 වන Yන ෙප.ව. 09.00 ට 567ය වන#$ අඩ$

කා/යාලයට පැ`ණ Qකාශය( ලබා ෙදන ෙම2 ඉතා කාR•කව ඉJලා

TU`.

ෙමයට,

(signed)

$ම/ශණ ]ළධා7

The Petitioner in the written submission says the Petitioner does

not attempt to thwart or undermine the lawful powers vested in

the Respondents. Nonetheless, the Petitioner does not explain

to this Court the legal basis on which it seeks to quash P26 and

P31 by certiorari. The Petitioner’s position is:

The Petitioner has strong cause to apprehend that the

summoning of the Chairman of the Petitioner company is an

attempt to apply collateral and extraneous pressures and

that this is a prelude to summoning the other directors of

17

the board as well. The Petitioner states that there are

several officers who are fully conversant and intimate with

the entirety of the Petitioner’s project approvals, operations

etc., who can assist the Respondents in any inquiry that is

lawfully conducted. As such, the summoning of the

Chairman and/or the Directors is and will be unnecessary

to say the least.

The Petitioner cannot decide who is or is not necessary to be

questioned in the investigation into the matter.

In paragraph 66 of the petition, the Petitioner alleges violations

of fundamental rights by the 1st and 2nd Respondents in

embarking upon this inquiry. That shall be canvassed in a

different forum.

To the contrary, the 2nd Respondent in P26 and P31 explains the

legal basis on which he seeks to call the Chairman of the

Petitioner to make a statement in pursuance of the investigation

into the matter already reported to the Magistrate’s Court of

Dambulla. The Petitioner does not say the said legal basis is

erroneous.

The Petitioner inter alia seeks writs of mandamus compelling the

2nd Respondent to confine his inquiry to the matters reported to

the Magistrate’s Court of Dambulla in Case No. B/453/2016,

and compelling the 1st and 2nd Respondents to move the learned

Magistrate to discharge the Petitioner company from the

proceedings or refrain from proceeding further against the

Petitioner and its employees. These are vague reliefs. The

Petitioner company is not a party to the proceedings to be

18

discharged therefrom. This Court cannot order the two

employees of the Petitioner who were arrested for clearing the

Sigiriya Sanctuary and produced before the Magistrate’s Court

be discharged. The matters reported in the Magistrate’s Court,

which I have quoted above, encompass recording statements

from various parties for the investigation into the matter. What

authority does this Court have to give instructions to the

Director General of Wildlife Conservation on how to conduct this

investigation? All of these applications can be made before the

learned Magistrate in the said case and the desired Orders can

be sought. This includes the Petitioner’s protest against calling

the Chairman of the Petitioner company to make a statement at

the investigation. The P26 and P31 letters clearly highlight that

the request for a statement by the Chairman is made in relation

to the case in the Magistrate’s Court. If the Petitioner is

dissatisfied with the ruling of the learned Magistrate, there is a

procedure in place for appeal.

The 1st and 2nd Respondents in their joint statement of

objections state that Case No. B/453/2016 was filed under the

Fauna and Flora Protection Ordinance and the 2nd Respondent

embarked upon the investigation within his legal powers under

the said Ordinance. They further say the Chairman of the

Sigiriya Village Hotel was required to be present “to collect

information pertaining to the legal ownership of the land and

other matters”. Their position is that the Petitioner has

“encroached [on] the [Sigiriya] sanctuary illegally exceeding the

land allocated for the Hotel.” The plan and the report prepared

upon the Orders of the learned Magistrate in the aforementioned

case have been tendered marked 1R1 and 1R2. Accordingly, the

19

1st and 2nd Respondents say the Petitioner is in occupation of an

additional 10 acres of land. The impugned inquiry relates to the

alleged illegal encroachment upon the Sigiriya Sanctuary.

The Petitioner has unnecessarily taken great pains to show the

inaccuracies in 1R1 and 1R2. It is plain law that consideration

of those matters is outside the purview of this Court.

In my view, this application is misconceived in law and devoid of

merit.

I unhesitatingly dismiss the application with costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Arjuna Obeyesekere, J.

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal