==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I I !

I I i ,

! I 1 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Pitchai Iresha Kumudini

Female Section/Welikada Prison

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

C.A. 64/2011

H.C. Colombo 399/2001

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDENT

Dr. Ranjith Fernando for the Accused-Appellant

Hiranjan Peiris S.S.C for the Complainant-Responent

16.05.2014

28.07.2014

1

2

GOONERATNE J.

The Accused-Appellant was indicted in the High Court of Colombo on

two counts in terms of the provisions of the Poisons, Opium and Dangerous

Drugs Ordinance as amended, for possession and trafficking of 142.4 grams of

heroin, on 7.1.1999. Accused-Appellant was found guilty and sentenced to life

imprisonment since the Accused was pregnant at the time of conviction. The

case of the prosecution is as follows.

Witness No. (1) Liyanage, an Inspector of the Narcotics Bureau in his

evidence testified that information was received by P.c. Senaratne of the

Narcotics Bureau on the day in question, from a private informant about

trafficking of Heroin by a person called iMahatun' and his wife, in the

Madampitiya area. Having received such information the police party had

been organized by him and proceeded on the raid with about 13 Police

Constables and Sergeants inclusive of a woman Police Constable who was in

the raid team. They went to the place as suggested by the informant in a

police jeep and a three wheeler. The informant also travelled with the police

3

team who had been dressed in civil except, for one Constable who was in his

uniform. The vehicles in which the police party travelled was parked about 300

meters away from the Thotalange round- about. Thereafter about 4 from the

police party and the informant proceeded on foot towards the round-about

and came along the Sedewatte road. It was a crowded place and the police

team came to a certain point and waited in one place for about 10 minutes.

After sometime the informant showed a woman walking in the direction of the

police party from premises No. 75 in the vicinity. The woman was identified as

Mahatun's wife, according to the informant. loP. Liyanage stopped the woman

who was carrying a bag which had vegetables on top of it and 8 cellophane

packets containing heroin at the bottom of the bag. House of the Accused

which was in the vicinity was searched but nothing was found. Thereafter the

usual official duties commenced by arresting the Accused, testing the powder,

weighing, and sealing the packets and the handing over of productions.

The above would be the very basic position of the prosecution

version, which includes the usual systematic type of evidence from the officials

of the Police Narcotics Bureau. I would refer to the position of the Accused-

4

Appellant in the manner submissions were made to this court by learned

counsel for Appellant and also on the material contained in the synopsis of

submissions made on behalf of the Accused.

(1) Cross-examination of the prosecution witness on the out entry with

reference to the particular time and the late entries made in the books of

the police (3.00 p.m).

(2) Keeping the Accused in the police station until the arrival of Mahatun the

husband and a person called 'Aja'. The reason for the late entry was that

the police expected two of them or one of them to arrive, being the real

culprits, to enable the police to release the suspect.

(3) Woman Police Constable's name entered later on in the books. In fact she

never participated in the raid though she was one among the raid team.

(4) Equipment not taken for the raid, e.g weigh scale etc.

(5) Bags containing vegetables and drug packets not sent to Government

Analyst.

(6) No cogent reasons to arrest Accused who was more or less implicated as

the main culprits could not be apprehended i.e Mahatun and 'Aja'.

(7) Out entry does not indicate that police party left with informant.

(8) Arrest at 10.55 a.m. Accused maintain it was about 9.30 a.m. or official

witness says on oath the out entry made at 3.00 p.m.

(9) Suggested to witness, that it was in fact Mahatun and one 'Aja' who were

involved.

5

(10)Discrepancy in the number of bags/packeU'sent to Government Analyst.

Government Analyst not been able to identify any of the production in court.

(11) P.e. Senaratne failure to record notes or record the events. It was

Senaratne who received the information of possession and trafficking of drugs.

Evidence vague and facilitating.

It is also important to consider the case of the Accused who gave

evidence on oath since that would be evidence in the case for court to either

reject or accept. Having considered the case of the Accused, if a doubt could

be established in the prosecution case the Accused is no doubt entitled to be

acquitted. Accused was married to Mahatun. They have a daughter by the

marriage and was involved in a vegetable stall. It is her case that two three

wheelers came armed with police officers at about 9.20 a.m. The police had

threatened the Accused and asked for Aja's goods. 'Aja' was a notorious drug

peddler. Mahatung was not at home. It is also her case that the police had

\'" 1.>\. slapped her and searched the t"!orfie. Police found a key of three wheeler

.".,

(adjoining land). Police went over to the adjoining laJ and returned with a

parcel in Inspector Liyanage's hand. Accused told to accompany the police as

goods had been found. Accused would be released only after the arrival of

6

Mahatun or 'Aja' in the police station. In short the Accused's position was that

she had nothing do with any drugs and it was 'Aja' who was wanted by the

police and she was kept in the police till'Aja' surrendered and she is punished

because of 'Aja'.

The learned Senior State Counsel whilst supporting the prosecution

case drew the attention of this court to pgs. 125-127, where the position of

the Accused had been suggested in cross-examination. The prosecution

witness rejected all these positions. Mere suggestion cannot amount to

evidence since the prosecution rejects all those positions with explanation.

The evidence led on behalf of the prosecution no doubt is the usual

type of evidence of trained police officers who narrated the several items of

evidence from the time of receiving information. In the process records have

to be maintained in the books of the police, out/in entry. The time at which

these entries are made is reflected in the notes. It is difficult for a court to be

suspicious of such entries merely because the person which received the

message enters the message in the book, but the leader of the team may not

do so contemporaneously. In the case in hand there is some evidence to the

effect that the leader of the police team Liyanage who was very much involved

7

in the arrest compared to I.P.Senaratne, made the relevant entries later in the

day. There could be a slight difference on certain points between the evidence

of the two official witness. That cannot give rise to a serious doubt or suspicion

like a forgery or an interpolation in the books maintained by the police.

The next important matter is the case of the Accused-Appellant. It is

not the role of the trial Judge to compare the case of the prosecution and the

defence and arrive at a conclusion. If that has taken place one could

successfully argue that the burden of proof is incorrectly shifted. Defence

position in certain respects had been put to the prosecution witness, but they

denied and made certain explanation in the best way they could do so to

maintain the prosecution case. However the leader of the police team as

stated by the Accused assaulted or slapped the Accused-Appellant. That

position had not been elicited or suggested either directly or indirectly from

prosecution witnesses. More and more probing of the prosecution witness

.l'12 s.*' I!(. f 4 fWA. connecting the time and items of evidence place~ Q~~t before

court, might have brought a different complexion to the entire case, if the

defence case was somewhat reliable. What should have been done at the trial

cannot be done in the appeal. The other position of the Accused-Appellant

,III!I

8

held till the arrival of the real culprit had also not shown results since the

prosecution witness rejected such position with somewhat acceptable

explanation. The item of evidence that surfaced on the detection of heroin

from the Accused person and in her possession had been placed before the

trial court by the two official witnesses. This item of evidence remains intact in

the absence of a reasonable doubt thrown on the prosecution version.

I will now turn to the judgment to consider whether a harmful

misdirection could be considered which would enable this court take a

different view. There is some reference to demeanor and deportment. As

observed above this being a case where trained police officers testify in court

(b-(~~ somewhat systematic evidence transpire f9'"1 the point of receiving

information up to the point of handing over the productions to the

Government Analyst. I agree that demeanor and deportment of an

experienced police officer would have no probative value. In the judgment of

the trial Judge evidence of each witness had been narrated and thereafter iIthat evidence had been evaluated by the trial Judge. I

At pgs. 355 to 364 I find that the trial Judge has once again narrated

the evidence of witness Liyanage, though the sub heading at 358 state

evaluation. But the question asked by the defence and the answers and

9

explanation of the witness had been stated. It is the explanation of the witness

that is being projected by the trial Judge to many questions of the Accused-

Appellant. It is in this way that greater part of the evidence had been

evaluated. At pgs. 365 &366 would be the material aspect where the trial

Judge observes the position of the witness could not be altered by the cross-

examination. As such it is consistent and proved beyond reasonable doubt.

This court cannot interfere with the many questions of fact, unless

such acceptance of fact by the trial Judge appear to be highly unreasonable. It

is however not in order for the trial Judge to state that no harm would be done

to the evidence of witness Liyanage since the Judge has decided to reject the

evidence of the Accused. The method adopted by the trial Judge to convey this

is not acceptable. The lapses if it could be described in that way in the

evidence of witness Liyanage are question of fact where the trial Judge

considered same not to be harmful to the prosecution case. As such I am

unable to conclude that it is unsafe to act upon the evidence of Liyanage

merely on the lapses which are explained by the witness. No doubt the witness

)

had admitted some questions posed by the defence but explanation of witness

seems to be acceptable in the context of the case i.e notes entered by witness

after some time and entered on the raid itself, weighing instruments .... etc.

10

The other witness Senaratne who received the information has taken

down notes in the pocket note book to a point only but the entire episode had

not been recorded. It is emphasized that the signal given by previous witness

Liyanage was not noticed or seen. Did not see the direction of Accused coming.

No notes kept as regards checking of Accused on the identification marks on

""'ore~ the heroin packets. This witness admits that he had not kept any m,Prl<s, but it

was witness Liyanage. There is some question as regards certain aspect of the

(.'I-( t ",:,nlr ~ r r.1c! c ~ t ,v-.v':..

case and I find that this witness had not provided a full or said he forgets.

h"" Vc.l. C ~ \.AI- "9.-d'~""" 1.# (....€ '" l~}...e.1< ~ C o However ~r positions ~ the evidence of witness Liyanage. '" I do find that the entirety of the prosecution version narrated by

witness No.1 had not been corroborated by witness Senarat~~·But witness

Liyanage had provided answers which cannot be doubted. Some answers are

not perfect but cannot cre'tte a doubt in the prosecution case. b...t ~~ 'N'<.h.{\~

(..>",'{" ... ~t~"'~ e:. rre--' ,,'V\t~~..o \W.. ~~Y'~ , In all the facts and circumstances of the case in hand, we cannot find

"").ct ,,' Ie serious errors in the judgment of the Trail Judge, though the defence is ---r v W\v'Y-.. t!.- '\0..'<'1 \I'< ~ justified in com~ating as above on% corroboration (notentirely) and

trial Judge's observations of rejecting the defence case as stated by the Judge

in the way described in the judgment, may not be in order of writing a

judgment. Judges may have and adopt their own style of writing judgments. As

IiII

ft

~ ,t ,

fI I

II

..

11

long as the findings are acceptable and stated in unambiguous terms, trial

c~L Judge having analysed the evidence find the case has been proved beyond

I"

reasonable doubt, Appellate Court need not intervene, and interfere with the

findings, unless a very grave unreasonable error could be detected even on

facts, it may not be desirable to intervene in case of this nature. Therefore we

affirm the conviction and sentence and dismiss this appeal

Appeal dismissed. v

f

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne J. j I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

f ! Ii

ItI

I

t

f ! iI

f

r! I •l ti