==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A.No.453/98 (F) D.C.Kuliyapitiya 11546/RE

Sahibi Marikkar Mohomed Ismail Marikkar No: 316, Aswadduma, Kuliyapitiya And No: 05, Narammala Road, Kuliyapitiya.

Appellant Vs. AAT.Ogastic Basil Markas De Alwis No: 111, Madampe Road, Kuliyapitiya.

Respondent

C.A.No.453/98(F)

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED AND DECIDED ON

K. T. CHITRASIRI, J.

D.C.Kuliyapitiya 11546/RE

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J.

Defendant-Appellant is absent and unrepresented.

Hiran de Alwis with Kalpa Virajith Attorneys-at-Law for the Plaintiff-Respondent.

27.02.2013

Pursuant to the preparation of appeal briefs, the Registrar of this Court had

sent notices to the parties on several occasions, directing them to be present in this

Court for the purpose of proceeding with this appeal. Finally, the Registrar on the

direction of this Court had sent notices again on 26.12.2012 to the defendant-

appellant (hereinafter referred to as the defendant) and to his Registered Attorney,

informing them that this matter would be taken up for argument today. Despite

all those notices neither the defendant nor his Registered Attorney is present in

this Court. Hence, this appeal is taken up for argument in the absence of the

defendant -appellant.

Heard, learned Counsel for the plaintiff-respondent (hereinafter referred to

as the plaintiff) in support of his case.

2

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the judgment dated

30.06.1998 of the learned District Judge of Kuliyapitiya. By that judgment

learned District Judge decided the case in favour of the plaintiff as prayed

for in the plaint dated 16.9 .1996. In that plaint, plaintiff sought inter alia to

obtain possession of the premises referred to in the schedule to the plaint

evicting the defendant therefrom, on the basis that the defendant did not

attorn to the ownership of the plaintiff that he had obtained on 13.11.1993.

The fact that the plaintiff became the owner of the premises in suit on

13.11.1993 by deed 8630 (para 3 of the plaint) had been recorded as an

admission at the commencement of the trial.

Having been the owner of the premises in suit, plaintiff had sent a

notice to the defendant requesting him to attorn to his ownership of the

premises. The said letter dated 06.02.1995 sent to the defendant is marked as

P5 and the registered article under which the said letter was sent had been

marked as P5A. The said evidence, led through the plaintiff and his

witnesses had not been controverted. Therefore, it is clear that the defendant

had been informed of the ownership of the plaintiff by sending the letter

marked P5. Also, there is evidence to show that the defendant had not paid

rent to the plaintiff as requested in the said letter marked P5. Therefore, it is

clear that the defendant had failed to attorn to the ownership of the plaintiff.

Accordingly he becomes a trespasser.

Having considered the above circumstances, the learned District

Judge has correctly decided the case in favour of the plaintiff on the basis

that he is a trespasser to the premises in suit.

3

Learned District Judge has also addressed his mind to the arrears of

rent due to the plaintiff by the defendant. (pages 170 and 171 of the brief).

Having looked at the evidence as to the payment of rent, he had decided that

the defendant was in fact in arrears of rent. As stated above, the learned

District judge had concluded that the plaintiff is entitled to eject the

defendant from the premises in suit having considered carefully, the failure

to attorn to the plaintiff and the non-payment of rent due to the plaintiff.

Accordingly, I do not see any error on the part of the trial Judge when he

decided the case in favour of the plaintiff.

I have looked at the grounds of appeal mentioned in the petition of

appeal as well. In that petition, the defendant has stated that the letter

marked P11 sent to him by the plaintiff was not received by him as the

address to which the letter was sent is wrong. The registered article which is

the acknowledgement to show that the letter marked P11 had been posted,

was marked as P3 in evidence without any questions being asked. (page 74 of

the brief). Therefore, I am unable to agree with the contention that the letter

P11 was not received by the defendant as mentioned in the petition of appeal.

However, as mentioned hereinbefore, basically it is on the strength of

the letter P5 which was sent to the defendant requesting him to attorn to the

ownership of the plaintiff, the action had been decided in favour of the

i

~ l '

4

plaintiff. Hence, I am not inclined to interfere with the judgment of the

learned District judge.

For the aforesaid reasons, I dismiss the appeal but without costs.

Appeal dismissed

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL