==== BLOCKS ==== 

In the Court of Appeal of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri {,Janka

CA APPEAL No: 61j97F

DC Mount Lavinia: 2182jL

Before: A W A Salam J

Godamune Kusumawathie,

3B, Hokandara, Thalalgoda, Pannipitiya

Plaintiff-Appellant

Vs

1. M Chandrasiri Perera 2. M Shanthi P Perera 3. M Dharmasiri Perera 4. M Gamini Perera 136, Thalalgoda, Pannipitiya

Defendant-Respondent

Appellant absent and unrepresented and V S Gunawardena for the

defendant-respondents.

Argued on: 01.02.2011

Decided on: 09.02.2011

A W Abdus Salam, J

The plaintiff filed action against the defendants for a declaration

of title to the subject matter of the action, ejectment of the

defendants and for damages. After trial the learned district judge

proceeded to dismiss the action of the plaintiff.based on the

premise that the plaintiff had failed to prove title. This appeal

has been preferred against the said judgment of the learned

district judge pronounced on 5.2. 1997.

Page 11

The main ground urged in the petition of appeal is the failure of

the defendant to prove deed No 27444 which was marked in

evidence as D 1.

The learned' district judge in his judgment has considered this

aspect of the matter and come to the conclusion that D 1 has

been duly proved. As has been observed in the impugned

judgment the pivotal question that arose for determination in the

case was the authenticity of D 1. However, the plaintiff has not

pleaded that D 1 is a fraudulent document.

In any event, as has been commented by the learned district

judge the execution of D 1 has been proved by the evidence of the

subscribing witnesses to the document. In the circumstances,

the learned trial judge concluded that the plaintiff had

transferred the right title and interest that she would be

declared entitled to in partition action No 11669/P to the father

of the defendants. Hence, the trial judge came to the conclusion

that the plaintiff is not entitled to a declaration of title as sought

in the plaint and dismissed the plaintiffs action. Therefore, the

findings and the judgment of the learned district judge appear to

me as faultless and consistent with the evidence led at the trial.

For reasons stated above this appeal should stand dismissed.

There shall be no costs .

.1~~ Judge of the Court of Appeal

Page I 2