==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I !

I I I I ,

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

High Court (Gampaha)

Case No: 6/99

C.A Application No. 225/06

In the matter of a petition of appeal

in terms of section 331 (1) of the

code of criminal Procedure Act No 15

of 1979

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

Lanka

(Complainant)

01. Bulugahamulla Pathirannehelage

Sarathchandra

02. Hettithanthrige Deeerasinghe

alias Ukkun.

03. Hapuhinne Gedara Indra kumara

alias Shantha

04. Rathnayake Kaluarachchilage

Amarasinghe Sisira Kumara

05. K. Susantha Perera

06.B.P. Alexander alias Gamini

Accused

1

,

,

f

fIiI I

I!

I, , r I

I 1 j I t

~ i , I

I

BEFORE

COUNSEL

And Between

01. Bulugahamulla Pathirannehelage

Sarathchandra

02. Hapuhinne Gedara Indra kumara

alias Shantha

Accused Appellant

The Hon Attorney General,

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

RESPONDENT

SISIRA J DE ABREW, J

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J

Saliya Peiris with Thanuka Nandasena for

the Accused Appellant

Harippriya Jayasundara D.S.G.

for the Respondent

2

! I ! I

I

\ , I r

f I

I

f , t Ie I

f !

I J

j I

Argued On 11.07.2013, 12.07.2013

Decided On 17.09.2013

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake J.

Sepala, Lionel and Senil are brothers of the same family. They were residing

in the same house situated at Mallawa. Three of them with several others

went to watch a musical show held to celebrate the Sinhala Hindu New

Year on 14.04.1987. They waited till the musical show started. As sepala

was an invitee he went to give a cash present to the organizers. All of a

sudden Pallewela Gamini assaulted Lionel. Lionel asked him why he was

assaulted. Without giving a reply Gamini assaulted Lionel again. Then Lionel

too assaulted Gamini.

At that time, Several persons, including, Sisira, Shantha and Sarath cut with

razor knives Lionel's face, the back of the left side, right hand, upper part of

the left arm, near the right eye, chin, neck and across the ear. They cut

Senil too. Having come to know that his brothers were being attacked,

Sepala rushed to the scene. While he was arriving at the scene, he was

stabbed from behind and hacked in the face and neck by the said group.

3

I

"!

I

According to the medical evidence, all cut injuries inflicted on Senil, Lionel

and Sepala were minor injuries, but the stab injury on Sepala was a grave

one which could have been fatal in ordinary course of nature.

The 1st Accused Appellant and several others were indicted for unlawful

assembly under Section 140, attempt to murder under Section 300 read

with 146, Voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means under

Section 315 read with 146, attempt to murder under Section 300 read with

Section 32, Voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous or means under Section

315 read with Section 32 of the penal code. Some of them were dead at the

time of the trial and the rest were convicted after trial before High Court

and Sentenced.

The learned trial judge in his judgment has evaluated the evidence of

witnesses individually, and thereafter, considering the summing up of

evidence of all witnesses separately and as a whole, he had come to several

conclusions. Among those conclusions, one is that it has very clearly proved

that the 1st Accused Appellant, 3rd and 4th Accused and the other accused

persons who were dead at the time of trial had assaulted the victims in the

case. Based on the said conclusion, the trial judge has decided that the said

Accused had become the members of unlawful assembly and caused

injuries on victims in the case.

Therefore, he has convicted the 1st Accused Appellant and 3rd and 4th

Accused for count No: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the indictment. Namely for

unlawful assembly under section 140, for Attempted to murder under

section 300, for voluntarily causing hurt to Abeysekara Hettige Nimal by

dangerous weapons or means under section 315 with 146, for causing hurt

to Hettiarachchi Appuhamilage Kumarathunga by dangerous weapons or

4

It ,

f I , f

means under section 315 with 146, for causing hurt to Ginadasa Artigala by

dangerous weapons or means under section 315 with 146, for causing hurt

Hettiarchchi Appuhamilage Senil Kumarathunga by dangerous weapons or

means under section 315 with 146, of the Penal Code. Accordingly, the 1st

Accused Appellant had been sentenced to a term of six months for count 1,

five years for count II, five years for count III, two years for count IV, two

years for count V, two years for count VI, but altogether five year rigorous

imprisonment and a fine of Rupees 100,000 was imposed and in default

another 3 month imprisonment for every rupees ten thousand.

Being aggrieved by said convictions and the sentence the 1st Accused

Appellant has appealed to this court.

The argument raised on behalf of the 1st Accused Appellant was that

learned trial judge had not evaluated the evidence of the case as a whole.

As a result, he had not seen inter-se differences of the said evidence. The

learned counsel submitted that Sepala had not stated any involvement of

the 1st Accused Appellant in an act of crime, even though Lionel narrated

that the 1st Accused Appellant cut Sepala with razor knife. He further

argued that the other witnesses had not mentioned any act of assault by

the 1st Accused Appellant. Therefore Sepala shouldn't have been believed,

the counsel stresses.

Although it was Sepala who had been injured most seriously, his brother

Lionel was the person who had suffered most. Lionel had to undergo

several plastic surgeries, to restore his former appearance. But, still he has

difficulty in speaking.

While giving evidence, at one stage of the trial, Lionel had wailed,

expressing his agony due to the injustice done to him.

5

[

i

ff III

Ii

J i 1 1 ,

r 1 I i 1 I I J I I

\ j l I ;

As submitted by the learned D.S.G Appeared for the Respondent it is an

accepted principle in criminal justice, that each and every witness needn't

witness each and every act of the people involved in the crime. Therefore it

is impossible for this court to agree with the submission made by the

learned counsel that Lionel's evidence should not be believed for the

reason the other witness had not seen certain things that Lionel had stated

in his evidence. On the other hand medical evidence corroborates the

injuries on victims which are said to have been caused by the accused

spoken to by Sepala and Lionel.

The incident had taken place on 14.04.1987. Accused have been convicted

on 04.08.2006. The point raised by the learned counsel for the 1st Accused

Appellant that to incarcerate a person for an offense after laps of such a

long period cannot be considered in this case when considering the

seriousness of injuries caused to the victims.

For the above reasons this court holds the view that there is no ground to

interfere with the judgment of the learned trial judge. Accordingly the court

dismisses the appeal of the 1st Accused Appellant. This court affirms the

conviction and the sentence imposed by the trial judge and dismisses the

appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

SISIRA J DE ABREW, J

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

6

(

II

f ,j,

r I I