==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COUT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA Appeal No.39/2010 HC Kalmune No.72/08 HC Ampara 1286/07

Suraweera Mudiyanselage Upul Kumara No: 226, Dutugamunu Pura, Deegawapiya.

Appellant Vs. The Hon. Attorney General Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

i I I

\

CA.Appeal No.39/2010 H.CKalmune No.72/08(HCAmpara 1286/07)

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

Sisira J. de Abrew, J. &

P.W.D.C. JayathiIake, J.

Dr. Ranjith Fernando for the Accused-Appellant.

Dileepa Peiris SSC for A/G.

14.11.2013

Sisira I. de Abrew, I

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted for committing grave

sexual abuse to a girl named Pradeepa Mayuri which is an offence punishable

under section 365B (2)(b) of the Penal Code and was sentenced to a term of 7

years rigorous imprisonment, to pay a fine of Rs.15,OOO/ - carrying a default

sentence of 1 year rigorous imprisonment and to pay a sum of Rs.75,OOO/ - as

compensation to the victim carrying a default sentence of 2 years rigorous

imprisonment. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence he has

appealed to this Court.

Learned Counsel appearing for the accused-appellant submits that he

does not challenge the conviction. He submits that at the time of the incident the

1

accused-appellant was a married person and was having a five years old child.

At the time of the incident, he was 28 years old. Further he submits that the

accused-appellant has respected the virginity of the victim girl. According to the

a.~ "I..-- evidence, the accused-appellant attempted to insert his male organ to the annus

of the victim girl but did not pursue it because of the complaint of pain made by

the victim girl.

Learned SSC leaves matter in the hands of the Court. We have considered

all these matters. We are of the opinion that the 7 years rigorous imprisonment

imposed by the learned trial Judge is excessive. We therefore set aside the term

of 7 years rigorous imprisonment and impose 4 years rigorous imprisonment.

~ 1---The fine and the compensation order by the learned trial judge remain unaltered.

/-

We direct the Prison Authorities to implement the sentence from the date of

conviction (04.03.2007). The learned High Judge is directed to issue a fresh

committal indicating the sentence imposed by this Court. Subject to above

variation of the sentence the appeal is dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C.IayathiIake, I.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

KLP/-

2

I, I I

i \

IIIII