==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No.1 055 12000 F

D.C. Colombo No. 18047 I L

1. Mohammad Mohideen mohamad Sali, 2. Abdul Hameed, Kairoon Nisa, Both of 357/A, Jumma Masjidh Road, Maligawatta, Colombo 10.

Plaintiff Vs.

Jinathul Thuraisia, 357/B, Jumma Masjidh Road, Maligawatta, Colombo 10.

Defendant

AND

Jinathul Thuraisia, 357/B, Jumma Masjidh Road, Maligawatta, Colombo 10.

Defendant Petitioner

1. Mohammad Mohideen mohamad Sali, 2. Abdul Hameed, Kairoon Nisa, Both of 357/A, Jumma Masjidh Road, Maligawatta, Colombo 10.

Plaintiff Respondent

IIIII II I

fI!!;

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

And Now Between

Jinathul Thuraisia, 357iB, Jumma Masjidh Road, Maligawatta, Colombo 10.

Defendant Petitioner-Appellant

Vs

1. Mohammad Mohideen mohamad Sali, 2. Abdul Hameed, Kairoon Nisa, Both of

357/A, Jumma Masjidh Road, Maligawatta, Colombo 10.

Plaintiff Respondent-Respondents

UPALY ABEYRATHNE J.

C. Hettiarachchi for the Defendant Petitioner

Appellant.

M. Nizam Kariappar with M.I.M. Iynulla for

the Plaintiff Respondent-Respondent

Nimal Muthukumarana for the 1 st Respondent

19.03.2012

31.05.2012

The present appeal has been preferred by the Defendant Petitioner-

Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant) from an order made by the

3

learned Additional District Judge of Colombo dated 30.11.2000. The facts of the

case are briefly as follows;

The Plaintiff Respondent-Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the

Respondent) instituted an action against the Appellant in the District Court of

Colombo for a declaration of title and ejectment of the Appellant from the

premises described in the schedule to the plaint. The court accordingly made order

to issue summons on the Appellant. Since the summons was not served on the

Appellant substituted service of summons has been effected on an application

made by the Respondent to that effect. Since the Appellant was absent and

unrepresented on the summons returnable date, the case had been fixed for an ex-

parte trial and a decree had been entered accordingly. Upon the service of a copy of

the said ex-parte decree on the Appellant a writ of execution of the decree has been

issued and the possession of the property in dispute has been delivered to the

Respondent.

The Appellant in paragraph 5 and 6 of his written submission has

stated that upon the receipt of the copy of the ex-parte decree he preferred an

application under section 86(1) of the Civil Procedure Code (CPC) seeking to have

the said ex-parte judgement and the decree vacated and after inquiry the learned

Additional District Judge by his order dated 30.11.2000 dismissed the said

application. It must be noted that the fact that the said application was preferred

after the receipt of the ex-parte decree contradicts the proceedings of the main case

record. (Vide J.E No. 15 to 18) In fact the said application to vacate the ex-parte

decree has been preferred after the delivery of possession upon the writ of

execution.

4

The Appellant in his application has taken up the position that the

summons was not served on him. According to the J.E. of the main case record the

fiscal has reported to court that the summons was served on the Appellant. The

affidavit of the process server has been filed of record. This affidavit is prima facie

evidence to conclude that the service of summons has been effected properly. The

Appellant has not adduced any evidence to challenge the veracity of the said

affidavit. It must be noted that the burden of proof that the summons was not

served on him lies on the Appellant. The Appellant has failed discharge the said

burden of proof.

In the said circumstances I see no reason to interfere with the order of the

learned Additional District Judge dated 30.11.2000. Therefore I dismiss the appeal

of the Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal