==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI-LANKA.

CA NO: 1 050/95( f) D.C. Emhilipitiya case No: 2878/L

Counsel: H.Wittanachchi for the

Defendant/Appellant.

Anuruddha Dharmarathne for the

PlaintifflRespondent.

Arguments: 11-09-2009

Written Submissions: 15-2-2010

Before: Rohini Marasinghe J.

Judgment: 24-06-2011

Subasinghage Heenhamy of Hingurana,Embilipitiya

PlaintifflRespondent·

Hewage Ariyaratne of near Yatiyana Kade Embilipitiya.

Defendant/Appellant.

CA 1050-95

The plaintiff had filed a possessory action against the defendant. The premises

in suit are described in the plaint. In a possessory action the plaintiff must

prove;

1. That he had possession of the premises

2. Which was held quietly and peaceably

3. During a period of an year and a day

4. The plaintiff was ousted or his possession was disturbed within the year.

What is the character of possession recognized by law? The possession is

composed of two elements. They are;

1. Physical possession- detentio

2. Mental possession- animus possidendi

In order to prove whether a particular person has possession of a particular

thing both those elements must be established. Detentio in brief means that a

person must have the power at his will of dealing with the thing as he likes and

of excluding others. And, animus possidendi means the intention of the holder

or occupier to hold and to exercise the control of the thing for his own benefit

and not for any other person.

In this case the premises was State Land. It had been given on a permit by the

Mahaweli Authority. The permit had been marked as Pl. The permit is in the

name of one Nicholas. The plaintiff admits that the permit is in the name of

1

said Nicholas. The plaintiff had stated that she was the mistress of Nicholas. As

admitted by the plaintiff the lawful title to the premises in suit was not with

the plaintiff. The plaintiff claims title through the said Nicholas. The plaintiff in

order to institute this action should prove that the plaintiff herself had lawful

title, and that she held the title on her own as the owner, and, not as a servant

or agent of the owner. The plaintiff's own evidence was that the lawful owner

of the premises in suit was the said Nicholas. The said Nicholas had transferred

the premises in suit by deed No: 512 dated 11-1-1986 to the Appellant. The

Appellant was placed in possession of the premises in suit by Nicholas. I do not

intend to deal with the validity of that transfer. That is a separate matter.

The learned trial judge in the impugned judgment had dealt with the question

of possession. He had held that the plaintiff had possession by considering only

the fact that the plaintiff had a strong intention to possess the land. As I have

stated earlier animus possededi is only one element of proof of possession. The

element of detentio was admittedly not with the plaintiff. Consequently, the

plaintiff could not maintain this action. The judgment is set aside.

The appe~ed'

Rohini Marasinghe J

Judge of the Court of Appeal.