==== BLOCKS ==== 

!

t

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REOUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A.No. 592/97(F} D.M.Mudiyanse (Deed)

C.Polonnaruwa 2554/L Kirimetiya, Gallamuna

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

Defendant Appellant

D.M.R.Wasantha Kumara

Substituted Defendant-Appellant

Vs

Y.Appuhamy (Deed)

Plaintiff Respondent

Y. S. Bandara

Substituted Plaintiff Respondent

Deepali Wijesunderra J and M/M.A. Gaffoor J.,

B.O.P. Jayawardena for the Defendant Appellant

Kumar Dssanayake for the Substituted Plaintiff Respondent

27.02.2015

16.07.2015

1

2

Gaffoor J

The Plaintiff -Respondents filed the above mentioned case in the District

Court of Polonnaruwa against the Defendant Appellant seeking a declaration of title

,and ejectment of the Defendant, his heirs and representatives from the land

described in the schedule of the plaint and claiming Rs.119,991/= as damages. Costs

and such other relief.

We have heard the submissions of both parties and carefully studied the Written

Submissions of both counsel. It is the contention of the Defendant Appellant that:

01. The Plaintiff -Respondents has failed to prove his title which is a sine qua non

for an action of this nature;

02. The Defendant Appellant claims that he was in possession in the said land from

the year 1958, which had been confirmed by the order of Primary Court case

No15879;

03. The permit marked PI had been issued without a proper investigation, without

following the proper procedure and while the Defendant Appellant was in

possession. This means without a proper land Katchcheri as claimed by the

Plaintiff -Respondents

04. Moreover, the Plaintiff -Respondent has not renewed the said permit pending

the said action.

05. Therefore, this Plaintiff -Respondent was without a proper title.

Now I avert to answer these grounds as follows.

01. The Plaintiff -Pespondents had a permit PI at the time of filing of DC action.

According to the Judgment cited by the learned counsel for the Plaintiff -

Respondents it sufficient evidence to prove his title in the inception of DC

proceedings.[.D.P.Piyasena Vs. K.K.D.Perera 56 NLR 407). Therefore, I hold that

I 3

the_Plaintiff -Respondents had a legal title from the inception of the DC

proceedings.

02. Defendant Appellant claims that he was in possession of the said land from

1958. However, he has never disputed the fact that the land in question was a

crown land. As long as that fact is not challenged I have to hold that the land in

question used to be a crown land. Therefore in terms of Sec 161 of land

Development Ordinance No 19 of 1935 any claim for prescriptive rights from

the Defendant Appellant should fail.

03. To consider whether Pl is a valid legal document, I have to consider the

evidence of the Colony Officer Wanni Arachchilage Thilak Shanta. He has given

evidence that Pl had been issued from his office and a copy of the same was

available. It was not during his time; therefore he did not have personnel

knowledge about the manner in which Pl was issued. Therefore, I have to be

mindful of the rationale of Sec 91 of the Evidence Ordinance as well as the

presumption [d) of Sec 114 of the Evidence ordinance. As a result I hold that

there is a burden thrown upon the Defendant Appellant, when he challenges

the legality of Pl. During the trial he has not discharged it. Therefore, I hold

that Pl is a valid legal document.

04. Now the Final question is whether the Plaintiff -Respondent had continued to

have the permit throughout the District Court case? In this regard I proceed to

refer to the evidence of the Plaintiff -Respondent and the Colony Officer

Wanni Arachchilage Thilak Shanta. Both have given evidence that permit was

not renewed due to the District Court case. Apart from that there is no

material to show steps under Sec 106 onwards of land Development

Ordinance No. 19 of 1935 have been taken against the Plaintiff -Respondent

.Therefore, I have to conclude it in Plaintiff -Respondent's favor that crown has

I 4

not interfered with his title purely because the Plaintiff -Respondent is the

lawful owner to the property in question.

Hence I affirm the judgment and the order of the District Judge of Polonnaruwa

dated 11.06.1997 and dismiss the appeal with costs fixed at Rs. 15,000/-.

Wijesundera J.,

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL