==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

~

J

I I I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

1. W. Missilin Aramanagolla

Horana 1 st Defendnt-AppeUant

Vs C.A.NO.I068/98 (F) D.C.HORANA CASE NO.4993/P

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON

DECIDED ON

1. W. D. Wilbert Appuhamy Temple Road, Yalagala

Haltota Plaintiff-Respondent

2. W. Dayawathie Adhistana Nursery, Aramanagolla Horana Deceased 2 nd Defendant-Respondent

2A. Danwaththa Liyanage Wales Perera Adhistana Nursery, Aramanagolla, Horana and others Substituted-Defendant-Respondents

3. Somapala Rodrigo Kandanhena, Horana. 3 rd Defendant-Respondent

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J.

Daphne Peiris with Champika Rodrigo for the 1 st Defendan t -Appellan t Chathura Galhena with Manoja Gunawardana for the Plaintiff-Respondent

05.02.2014

03.04.2014 by the 1st Defendant-Appellant

Not filed by the respondents

29.04.2014

II

! I

CHITRASIRI, J.

This is an appeal filed by the 1st Defendant-Appellant (hereinafter referred

to as the appellant) seeking to set aside the judgment dated 25.9.1998 of the

learned District Judge of Horana. In the petition of appeal, no other substantive

relief is sought by the appellant except for the claim as to the costs of this

appeal. However, in the written submissions dated 03.04.2014, learned Counsel

for the appellant has invited this Court to make an order granting due relief to

the appellant considering her prescriptive rights. (vide at last page of the

submissions)

This is a case where the plaintiff sought to have the land referred in the

Plan bearing No.2575 dated 19.01.1994, marked "X", partitioned. At the

commencement of the trial, parties to the action have admitted that the land

sought to be partitioned is the land depicted in the aforesaid Plan marked "X".

(vide at page 96 in the appeal brief) Admittedly, the original owner of the land in

suit was Bando Singho who is the father of the plaintiff, the 2nd defendant-

respondent and of the 1st defendant-appellant. 3rd defendant-respondent is the

son of the appellant. Aforesaid Bando Singho became entitled to the land sought

to be partitioned by virtue of the decree entered in the partition action 3507/P

filed in the District Court of Panadura. He has transferred 1/2 share of the land

with the house found thereon, to the plaintiff by deed 969 marked P2. The

balance 1/2 share had devolved on to his wife and to the six children. Two of

his children namely, Seelin and Karunawathie had transferred their entitlement

2

to their sister who is the 2nd defendant by deed 580 marked 2Vl. The 2nd

defendant Dayawathie had transferred her entitlement that derived from her

" . father's rights to the 3rd defendant by deed 223 marked 3Vl. Another child of

Bando Singho has transferred 1/2 of her entitlement to the plaintiff by deed

7717 marked P3. Remaining share of the land also had been purchased by the

plaintiff by deed 461 marked P4. Accordingly, the plaintiff became entitled to

20/24 shares of the land whilst the balance 4/20 shares had devolved on to the

1 st, 2nd and the 3rd defendants in the following manner.

1/24 to the 1 st defendant,

2/24 to the 2nd defendant,

1/24 to the 3rd defendant.

The said devolution of title has not been disputed and accordingly the learned

District Judge has allocated the shares in the manner referred to above.

At this stage, it is necessary to note that the only issue before the learned

trial judge had been the claim made by the appellant to the building found on

the corpus and to the plantation found thereon, as opposed to the claim by the

plaintiff-respondent to the said building and to the plantation. Accordingly, the

issue bearing No.7 had been raised on behalf of the appellant and the 3rd

defendant-respondent, who are the mother and the son, in order to have an

order in their favour in respect of the said building and the plantation. They

have not claimed before the learned District Judge any prescriptive rights

to the land sought to be partitioned. Not even an issue had been raised by

3

them to claim prescriptive rights to the land sought to be partitioned. In

the circumstances, it is clear that the parties to the action, particularly the

plaintiff-respondent had conducted the case to meet the aforesaid issue raised

by the respective parties with regard to the house and the plantation and not to

meet a prescriptive claim of the appellant.

Under those circumstances, it is clear that the parties were not required to

elicit evidence as to a claim of prescription. In the absence of such evidence, it is

incorrect for this Court to have reviewed the impugned decision at this appeal I

stage, looking at a claim of prescription without giving an opportunity for the

opposing parties to meet such a claim. The appellant cannot set up a case at this

appeal stage different to the case that she has made out in the trial court.

However, even the appellant, in her evidence has not uttered a word claiming

prescriptive title to the land sought to be partitioned. Hence, this Court

exercising an appellate jurisdiction cannot consider a claim of prescription that

had not been set up in the lower Court.

The aforementioned position in law had been exhaustively discussed in the

case of Gunawardena V. Deraniyagala and others. [2010 (1) S L R 309] In that

decision, it was held thus by the Supreme Court.

((It is not open to a party to put fonuard a ground for the first time in appeal,

if the said point has not been raised at the trial under the issues so framed. \

J

[

4 I I

r

The appellate Court may consider a point raised for the first time in appeal,

where the point might have been put forward in the Court below under one

of the issues raised and where the Court has before it all the material that is

required to decide the question."

In Somawathie V Wilmon and others, [2010 (lOS L R 128] once again the

Supreme Court has held as follows.

1) A new ground cannot be considered for the first time in appeal, if the

said new ground has not been raised at the trial under the issues so

framed. However, the Appellate Court could consider a point raised

for the first time in appeal if the following requirements are fulfilled.

a) The question raised for the first time in appeal, is a pure

question of law and is not a mixed question of law and fact.

b) The question raised for the first time in appeal, is an issue put

forward in the Court below, under one of the issues raised, and

c) The Court which hears the appeal has before it all the material

that is required to decide the question.

In the circumstances, the authorities referred to above does not permit

this Court, it being an appellate Court to grant relief to the appellant relying

upon her prescriptive claim because it is not a matter that has been raised as an

issue in the Court below. Hence, I am not inclined to allow this appeal.

5 I

)

I

However, as an academic exerCIse, I have perused the evidence of the

appellant and of the 3rd defendant-respondent, in order to ascertain whether

there is evidence to establish the purported claim of prescription of the

appellant. The appellant, in her evidence-in-chief has claimed only the house

and the plantation found on the land. Even though such a claim has been made

at this appeal stage, she has failed to support such a claim in her evidence. Her

evidence in respect of the said house claimed by her was that it was built by her

father who is the father of the plaintiff and the 2nd defendant-respondents as

well. She also has admitted that two rooms of that house built by the father are

still in existence though she has renovated the same subsequently. Such

evidence certainly will not help the appellant to claim prescriptive rights even to

the house. Even the 3rd defendant-respondent who is the son of the appellant (

f

has not given evidence to support the appellant's claim of prescription. To the

contrary, he in his evidence has admitted that the plaintiff became entitled to a

share of this land by the deed marked P4. (vide proceedings at page 164 in the

appeal brief).

More importantly, it must be noted that the appellant, being a co-owner to

the land sought to be partitioned should establish an overt act evicting the other

co-owners, if she is to claim prescriptive rights to the land. Admittedly, no

evidence is forthcoming to establish an overt act. Therefore, the appellant in any

event, cannot maintain a claim of prescription to the land sought to be

partitioned in the absence of such evidence.

6

\

f r

For the aforesaid reasons, I am not inclined to grant relief to the appellant

relying upon the law of prescription. Furthermore, nothing was argued as to the

correctness of the share allocation of the learned District Judge. Accordingly, I

do not see any merit in this appeal.

For the aforesaid reasons, this appeal is dismissed with costs. I Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

1! i It ! ii I

f

7