==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALSIT REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

1. W.Karunawathie

2. J.I.Hemalatha

3. J. I. U pali Chandrakeerthi

C.A.No.26/97(FO

D.C.Marawila No.402/L.

All of Haldanduwana, Dankotuwa

Plaintiffs.

Vs.

N.D.M . Ariyaratne,

Haldanduwana, Dankotuwa.

Defendant.

1. W.Karunawathie

2. J.I.Hemalatha

3. J.I.Upali Chandrakeerthi

All of Haldanduwana, Dankotuwa

Before

Counsel

Argued on

Decided on

2

N .D.M.Ariyaratne,

Haldanduwana, Dankotuwa.

Defendant-Respondents.

Deepali Wijesundara,J. &

M.M.A.Gaffoor,J.

) Rohan Sahabandu P.C. with

S.Vithanage for the plaintiff-Appellant

M.C.Jayarathe, with H.D.J.Bandara

for the

Defendant-Respondents.

27.03.2015.

29.09.2015.

! I

3

M.M.A.Gaffoor, J.

The Plaintiffs have filed this action on 07.07.1990 stating

that they are entitled to the land morefully described in the

schedule to the Plaint and they further state that the eastern

boundary is not property fenced .and when they wanted to

erect the eastern boundary fence, the Defendant obstructed

and they pray for a declaration to fIx the boundary as they are

entitled to that boundary. -

The Defendant denies all the averments in the Plaint. At

the trial 1-8 issues were raised by the Plaintiffs and issues 9-

12 by the Defendant.

Issues 1 and 2 refer to paragraphs 2-5 of the Plaint

where the Plaintiffs have stated how they became entitled to

the said land and their prescriptive right to the same. Issue 3

states whether the said land is shown in Plan No.556 dated

90.07.27 and drawn by T.K. Dharmasena, Licensed Surveyor.

Issue No.4 is about the eastern boundary and whether there

are any marks remaining to show that there was a fence in

existence.

~

The District Judge has answered the issues 1-3 in the

affIrmative but answered issue 4 in the negative. The Plan

4

No.556 is marked as "~l 3" (See page 161 of the appeal

brief), and according to this plan, the land on the eastern side

of the plaintiffs land is the land claimed by the Defendant and

between the Plaintiff's land and the Defendant's land, there is

a clear boundary marked with remains of trees etc. The

leaned District Judge has filed to observe these marked to

show that there was a fence which existed earlier." The

evidence of the surveyor Dharmasena is very clear on this

point. He has said that there was remn<Jnts of halmilla,

atacheriya, arliya and gasaka portion of the trees at the place

where the fence was. This evidence was admitted by the

Defendant In his cross examination (see page 114 of the

appeal brief).

This is an action filed by the plaintiff to define the

eastern boundary of their land. " This type of action is known

as ' actio finium , regundorum' to define the boundary is

provided by the Roman Dutch Law, whenever the boundaries

of the land belonging to different owners have become

uncertain, whether accidentally or through the acts of the

owners or some third person." (see Voet 10.1.1) . The onus of

proving the essential facts in such an action is on the plaintiff

(Voet 10.1.3). The plaintiffs has established the necessary

essential facts in the case and have shown the existence of an

old fence at the disputed boundary. The evidence of the

5

plaintiffs and their witnesses, especially the surveyor

Dharasena satisfies that the plaintiffs have discharged their

onus of proving the existence of an old fence. The plaintiffs

need not prove their title in this type of case. The other matter

is that the Court has answered the issued 1 and 2 in favour of

the plaintiffs and as such their title to the land is admitted by Court. In this case, the plaintiffs are not asking for

declaration of title to that land but only a declaration to -ascertain their eastern boundary.

In the case of Deeman Silva vs. Silva and others - 1997

(2) Sri L.R. 382, this Court has held that the plaintiff must

come into Court stating (1) that an ascertainable common

boundary previously existed on the ground and (2) that such

boundary had been obliterated subsequently". In view of the

Roman Dutch Law proposition the plaintiffs have a right to

claim definition of their eastern boundary can be maintained.

It must be noted that the right of the trial Judge to fix the

new boundary arises where the old boundary cannot

conveniently be restored. In this case, the new boundary is

sought when the old boundary is proved to be in existence,

hence, the trial Judge has no difficulty in permitting the fence

! I i ! I I i I I I \ I I

~ )

I

j ! 1 l i

6

to be erected at the place where the old eastern boundary is

shown in plan No. 557 of Surveyor Dharmasena.

The learned trial Judge was of the VIew that " the

plaintiffs action though was instituted for the definition of the

eastern boundary, it appears that the action is institp.ted to

obtain a declaration to the disputed area" and held that the

plaintiff has not asked for a declaration of title to that portion

and therefore he cannot maintain the action. This view is

utterly wrong. The Plaintiffs need not ask for a declaration of

any portion of this land. What is disputed is the eastern

boundary. It is abundantly clear that the plaintiffs have

proved that there did exist an earlier physical boundary fence

on the eastern boundary of their land which is not there now

an which they want to replace at the same place where the

earlier fence has stood.

As regards this matter, we find that the plaintiffs have

satisfactorily proved and convinced the Court by the evidence

of the surveyor Dharmasena and other witnesses. That there

was boundary separating the lot from the rest of the corpus on

the eastern side of his land and also the defendant failed to

prove that the position occupied by the plaintiff was occupied

by plaintiff was commonly possessed by all the parties to the

I

I

7

case. We would therefore set aside the judgment and decree of

the District Court and remit the case for trial de novo on the

issues 4-12 or the Court may deem it necessary to frame new

issues in view of the scope of the action as explained above.

All costs will be costs in the cause

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Deepali Wijesundara,J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COAURT OF APPEAL

WC/-

\ I

i

\ If r !

I

\

lf

~