==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

H. Kumarasiri Perera alias Sarath

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

C.A 82/2013

H.C Gampaha 112/2007

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDNET

Amila Palliyage for the Accused-Appellant

Rohantha Abeysuriya D.S.G. for the Complainant-Respondent

13.06.2014

08.08.2014

1

3

house ((f~ ~i mb) (tC5>eS) (tCSX) (f~ ~ OOm). Thereafter the Accused

had uttered to the deceased "COO ~~ and stabbed the deceased on his

chest and also gave chase behind the deceased who ran towards the house of

his brother. The deceased had been chased by the Accused with a knife in his

hand. Witness saw the deceased holding the wall on the road. The deceased

had been taken to hospital by the witness and she also had made a statement

to the police. Witness No. (2) called by the prosecution also corroborated the

incident of murder by stating in evidence that he heard the shouts ~ ~

~C) (tmc~. He saw the Accused chasing the deceased with a knife uttering

®~),~).

Learned counsel for the Accused-Appellant referred to the mental

condition of his client who had been taking treatment on and off and

emphasized the case of the Accused on the basis of a sudden fight. Learned

counsel for the Accused invited court to consider a further reduction of the

sentence already imposed by the High Court. The learned Deputy Solicitor

General supported the Judgment of the learned High Court Judge, and stated

that the post mortem report is consistent with the injuries as narrated by the

main witness who said that the deceased had been stabbed on the chest. He

f 1 , 1 J i I 1 4

also mentioned about the Section 27 of Evidence Ordinance recovery of a knife

and the scene of the crime with reference to police evidence.

The Accused-Appellant in this case had given evidence on oath. This

court having considered the version of the Accused, cannot find any ruling of

the trial Judge as regards the case of the Accused, except in the High Court

Judge's findings on medial report Xl & X2 produced by the Accused, had been

accepted by the trial Judge and given a concession to the Appellant based on

same. Trial Judge does not state specifically whether the version of the

Accused-Appellant creates any doubt in the prosecution case but had

considered the medical report and arrived at a conclusion that the incident

was as a result of a sudden fight. The explanation of the Accused may be

somewhat acceptable to convict him for a lesser offence. I think this being the

factual position, this court do not see a real basis to interfere in the findings of

the trial Judge.

On the other hand the prosecution witness gave evidence on what

they saw and what they heard. The defence had not been able to create any

doubt in the prosecution case and they appear to be truthful witnesses. The

report Xl and X2 no doubt explain in detail the several ailments that caused a

severe recurrent depressive disorder. X2 which is the discharge summary gives

j I

f I 5

a clear clinical diagnosis and describes as a current episode severe with

psychotic symptoms. X2 is dated 9.2.2001. The incident was on 13.9.2002.

Considering Xl & X2 it is apparent that the illness is described in very specific

terms as Imood depressed with fleeting suicide ideas'. This seems to be a

recurrent problem that the Accused-Appellant had to undergo in his life. As at

the date of incident there is no material available to indicate that the Accused-

Appellant had been cured completely. No doubt the trial Judge has imposed

the maximum sentence.

In the above facts and circumstances we affirm the conviction but

substitute a lesser sentence of 15 years simple imprisonment, and a fine of Rs.

5000/- which carries a default sentence of 6 months simple imprisonment,

having considered the mental condition of the Accused-Appellant. The

sentence to be back dated to the date of conviction. Subject to above, this

appeal is dismissed.

Appeal dismissed. GY ~-::Q'1

UuD~E OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL