==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

1. Panniyage Bandupala Bandara

No. 179, Maya Mawatha,

Colombo 05.

2ND PARTY-PETITONER-APPELLANT

e.A. 133/2006 (PHC)

(PHC Colombo HCRA - 638/2004)

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

Vs.

2. Nallahandi Lakshman de Silva

No. 83, Jambugasmulla Road,

Nugegoda.

1ST PARTY-RESPONDENT-RESPONDENT

Amila Palliyage with Wajira Ranasinghe

for the Petitioner-Appellant

Gaminie Marapana P.e. with Navin Marapana

For the Respondent-Respondent

1

II

t I

I(

IIr

~ f i I III

2

ARGUED ON: 26.06.2014

DECIDED ON: 24.07.2014

GOONERATNE J.

This is an appeal from the Judgment of the learned High Court Judge

of Colombo dated 16.6.2006, arising from an Revision Application filed in the

High Court from the Order of learned Magistrate of Mt. Lavinia under Section

66 of the Primary Courts Procedures Act.

What I could gather from the material placed before this court is that

one of the main contentions of the party of the 2nd part Petitioner-Appellant

was that the learned Magistrate had failed or has not taken the step to

encourage and make every effort to facilitate dispute settlement before

assuming jurisdiction. It has also placed as some material before court that the

Petitioner-Appellant had been running a business described as 'Udara Mangala

Sevaya', according to the information provided by the police. Perusal of the

docket it is also apparent that the learned High Court Judge by his Order of

I I

! I. r

r l

~ i IIt I It t f 1I

~ i

t~ t I ! 1 I i !

3

20.9.2004 issued a stay order, staying the operation of the learned

Magistrate's Order of 09.09.2004.

The grounds of appeal are more particularly stated in para 9 of the

Petition of Appeal. We have noted the several matters urged therein.

This court having perused the order of the learned High Court Judge

wish to observe that the High Court Judge has very correctly dismissed the

Revision Application on very valid acceptable grounds. As stated above one of

the main contention of the Petition or Appellant was that the failure of the

Magistrate to encourage settlement as described above. It is apparent that the

Petitioner-Appellant has provided incorrect details on this matter and had

misrepresented and deliberately failed to disclose material facts to courts, and

on that basis alone the Revision Application could have been rejected by the

learned High Court Judge. Perusal of the material indicates that the learned

Magistrate had made every possible effort to explore the possibility of

settlement and the Petitioner-Appellant has deliberately not disclosed

documentation in this regard. The case record submitted subsequently (pgs.

3/4 of High Court Judge's Order) produced P1 and Journal Entry of 04.-6.2004

of 16.06.2006 and 28.7.20004 would provide ample proof in this connection.

! I , I ! i i f ! i

4

On all other material point as to who was in actual possession of the

premises or land in dispute on the date of issue of notice and the required 2

month period had been considered by the learned High Court Judge. In this

regard the learned Magistrate had relied upon two vital documents lPS and

lPG. It consists of a complaint (lPG) made by an independent witness as

described in the said order of the learned High Court Judge and another

document marked as lPS where the keys to the door of the up-stair building

had been in the possession of the party of the 1st part Respondent-

Respondent. The learned Magistrate had very carefully, considered the

required possession as per the Primary Courts Procedure Act based on

available material. The High Court Judge no doubt had given his mind to all

aspects of possession recognized by law, supported with facts and expressed

cogent reasons. This court is not inclined to disturb such findings. The law

recognizes two types of possessions, i.e direct physical control at a given time

which is actual possession. The other is constructive possession, to exercise

dominion or control over a thing either directly or indirectly through an agent.

No doubt the learned High Court Judge has approached the case having above

in mind.

5

The learned High Court Judge in his conclusion states that the

required exceptional circumstances have not been proved to maintain the

Revision Application, filed in the High Court. This is an appeal from the Order

of the High Court in the exercise of its revisionary jurisdiction. The grounds of

appeal of the Appellant and the matters urged before this court and before

the High Court/Magistrate's Court have no merit. As such we proceed to

dismiss this appeal. Order of the High Court dated 16.6.2006 affirmed.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

If 1

IIi I

i r

f t , I t

I

~ I t

~ ! ! ,