==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA 12/2011

Ratnasekera Acharige Pradeep

Nishantha Ratnasekera

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

H.C Gampaha 73/2011

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Sunil Rajapaksa J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT -RESPONDNET

Indika Mallawarachchi for the Accused-Appellant

Dilan Ratnayake S.S.C for the Complainant-Respondent

03.04.2014

30.04.2014

1

I

j I

~ f j I I

I ! l I I

2

GOONERATNE J.

The Accused-Appellant was convicted of murder of his wife Devika

Thilini Manamendra and sentenced to death. The Accused was the husband of

the deceased. The facts of this case could be briefly summarized as follows.

These facts, based on the evidence placed before the trial court are not

disputed by either party.

It was the evidence of the Accused-Appellant's father (Ratnapala)

that the deceased (daughter-in-law), Accused his son and the witness' sister,

mother and child of both the deceased and Accused lived in the same house of

the witness, Ratnapala. On the day of the incident the Accused was at a

building site which was about 20 fathoms away from their house, inspecting

the construction of a house, and the witness Ratnapala was also at the site

with his son, the Accused. It was the position of the defence that the Accused

was constructing a new house. Both the Accused and witness Ratnapala had

been at the site till about 12 noon, and both of them left the site to have lunch

at home. At that time all the above persons who lived in the house were

Ii III

f

~ ii

~

ffi

f

f"II

1

3

present (inclusive of the deceased) and all of them had lunch. It is in evidence

that the Accused, after lunch left the house and went back to the building site.

The Accused went first to the site and the witness followed him thereafter. At

the site the Accused had told the witness that he is going to the petrol shed to

pump petrol to his motor cycle and the Accused left the site, but the witness

continued to be at the site. At that time the witness Ratnapala's sister

Somawathie had come to the site and informed him that the deceased had

fallen into the well situated within the premises. Witness had thereafter gone

home on the information he received and saw the deceased fallen into the

well.

Thereafter the witness had gone to the police and logged an entry in

the police station and went in search of the Accused, his son, who is usually

found at his sister's house in Dalugama, where the Accused is in the habit of

spending long hours in the sister's house with his cousin, Don Lalith. Having

met the Accused and on divulging the information both of them went to the

place where the deceased body was found in a well.

It was the position of the learned counsel for the Accused-Appellant

that the prosecution had not been able to lead any direct evidence and the

:

i

l t

f'i

i

4

only evidence led at the trial was certain items of circumstantial evidence

which does not prove the Accused' guilt or complicity of the crime or incident.

In fact the only items of evidence elicited through witness Ratnapala and

witness Don Lalith (cousin of Accused) was that the Accused told them that the

Accused and the deceased had an argument, but exact details of such

exchange of words and when and where or its magnitude had not been

elicited or revealed in evidence.

The Post-Mortem Report gives the cause of death -drowning.

Injuries are described as contusion, and abrasions, about 14 of such injuries

are shown in the report. The learned counsel for the Accused-Appellant drew

the attention of this court to pgs. 301/302 of the brief regarding learned High

Court Judge's judgment. At that point of the judgment the learned High Court

Judge had considered 9 items of evidence, to be important and relevant to the

case. Only item 9 of same refer to constant quarrels between the husband and

wife. It is very apparent that the trial Judge had categorized 9 itmes of

evidence more particularly item Nos. 1 & 9 without a proper basis or analysis

of the evidence that transpired at the trial. We find that none of the above 9

items of evidence have a real link to connect with the guilt of the Accused, and

III

ft•

~

! If ;. !

t. I i

5

such a categorization of evidence is not based on a proper understanding of

the evidence led at the trial. The learned trial Judge's reasoning on same is

highly unacceptable and lacking of any form of consistency to establish the

guilt of the Accused. A mere exchange of words in the absence of supportive

direct or circumstantial evidence will not take the prosecution case beyond

reasonable doubt to support a conviction. In the instant case the evidence led

would not show even a mere suspicion, to connect the Accused. Even in fact if

there had been an exchange of words, we cannot find anything unusual or

extraordinary in that sort of conduct of either party, more so such conduct

between husband and wife. There is no evidence as to how or when or under

what circumstances the body was found in the well which was an unprotected

well. Nor has the prosecution eliminated the probability of suicide or whether

the deceased fell into the unprotected well accidently.

In Gunawardena Vs. The Republic of Sri Lanka 1981 (2) SLR 315. In a

case resting on circumstantial evidence the Judge in addition to giving the

usual direction that the prosecution must prove the case beyond reasonable

doubt, must give a further direction in express terms that they must not

convict on circumstantial evidence unless they are satisfied that the facts

proved are:

If

1 IIt

I

t ,, !

6

(a) Consistent with the guilt of the Accused

(b) Exclude every possible explanation other than the guilt of the Accused.

In Munirathne and Others Vs. The State 2001(2) SLR 382 per

Kulatilleke J. "Suspicious circumstances do not establish guilt. Nor does the

proof of any number of suspicious circumstances relieve the prosecution of its

burden of proving the case against the Accused beyond reasonable doubt.. .... "

The learned Senior State Counsel very correctly and in the correct

spirit of what is really expected from the officers of the Attorney General's

Department indicated to court that he cannot support the conviction.

When a Accused was facing a capital charge it was essential that

every point in favour of the Accused however trivial should be considered by

the trial Judge. In this instance the trial Judge was concerned only to stretch

every irrelevant items of evidence in favour of the prosecution, forgetting the

fact that a link cannot be established to point towards the guilt of the Accused.

At the hearing of this Appeal the learned counsel for the defence

invited this court to consider several other grounds which favour her client's

innocence. We think it would not be necessary to consider the many other

I

i

f

7

grounds urged, for the reasons mentioned above. As such in the circumstances

and in the context of this case it would be unsafe to allow the conviction to

stand. Therefore we set aside the conviction and sentence and acquit the

Accused.

Appeal allowed.

GJ>k~

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

N.S. Rajapaksa J.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL Il

I

tI f I