==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A 397/1998 (F) D.C. Mount Lavinia 1845/L

1. H. M. Podihamy Siriwardena 2. K. S. Asoka Ranmali 3. H. A. Seneviratne

all ofNo.8111, Nalandarama Road, Pathiragoda, Maharagama.

PLAINTIFFS

Vs.

1. N. Y ahennis Perera (Deceased)

2. N. Upali Pathmasiri Perera

Both ofNo. 45, Nalandarama Road, Pathiragoda, Maharagama.

DEFENDNATS

AND BETWEEN

N. Upali Pathmasiri Perera of No. 45, Nalandarama Road, Pathiragoda, Maharagama.

2ND DEFENDANT -APPELLANT

Vs.

iiilr

r. I!'IIl!llI

f

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERA TNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J.

4. K. S. Asoka Ranmali 5. H. A. Seneviratne

Both ofNo.81/1, Nalandararna Road, Pathiragoda, Maharagama.

2ND & 3RD PLAINTIFF-RESPONDENTS

Lasitha Chaminda with P. Mahanama Thillekeratne for the 2"d Defendant-Appellant

Wijedasa Rajapakse P.C., with Rajitha Haturusinghe for 2"d & 3rd Plaintiff-Respondents

27.9.2012

05.02.2012

2

This was an action filed in the District Court of Mt. Lavinia for a

declaration to a road access as shown in plan marked p1 (No. 1153 of 13.11.1961)

more particularly described as lot 'B' in the said plan which is shown as an access

path or road to lot 'A' from the main road (Nalandarama Road). Judgment was

!tI

1

I!1l

.

~ 1

\

I! I;

3

entered in favour of Plaintiff-Respondent and the 2nd Defendant-Appellant has

preferred this appeal from the said judgment. Parties- proceeded to trial on 3

admissions, the admission of jurisdiction of court and 13 issues. Plaintiff-

Respondent has produced documents P1 to P16a without any objection. Defendant-

Appellant has produced plan D1 only.

The 2nd Plaintiffs evidence clearly establish that the lots 'A' & 'B' of

plan P 1 was originally owned by one Mango Perera. The said Perera had by deed

P2 transferred same to one Karunaratne. The 2nd Plaintiffs evidence refer to a

series of transactions by deeds and statements P2 -P 16a which were produced in

evidence without any objection. (inclusive of police statement and other statement

to Grama Sevaka). This evidence according to the witness suggests long user as the

access road shown as 'B' in the above plan. There is also evidence of obstruction

to the user of the road access in Plaintiff witnesses. (P9 - P 14) evidence. Plaintiff

evidence suggests that until the time of objecting or placing obstruction by the

Defendant party the Plaintiffs were using the access road. In view of the

obstructions Plaintiff party had to use another access on the western boundary for

which Plaintiff had no right of access.

The judgment of the trial judge also refer to the versiOn of the

Defendant-Appellant as expressed by the trial judge.

4

az;®~t:S>oz:Eles5 @ID>®mell erz:B> erffirna) ernrnt:S>oz:Eles5 effies5 ellz:Elrorn eroorn t:S>omrn roE~rn ~~esx:>

®ell>B5~65. ernrn®~ Qt;,eiles5 t:S>O 6)@®65 az;®iXl@t:S>oz;Eles5 ~ ~®ellt:S> ®®® a>O a>OOe> ®elllt:S>@

This court is of the view that the trial judge has correctly annalysed all

the evidence pertaining to very basic primary facts, which should not be disturbed.

The trial judge had the opportunity to gage the several witnesses in their evidence

in open court and examine carefully the actions/reactions and demeanor of the

witnesses. The two plans produced in the course of leading evidence clearly

identify the access road with the situation of the land in dispute. Though the

Appellant attempt to demonstrate long user as in issue No. 11, there was no

acceptable evidence placed before the trial court, to conclude in that way and

\I

If

!

~

I

;

f .. Il I' ' I If ! IJ

5

accept the Defendant-Appellant's contention of a very confused state of

prescribing to the larid in dispute. One should nof be called upon to surinise -a plea

on prescription. Such a plea should be proved as in Section 3 of the Prescription

Ordinance. Mere allegation as in the Petition of Appeal of the misdirection of the

trial judge are not supported and established by good reasons and law by the

Appellant.

There is some reference in the Petition of Appeal (paragraph 8) about

a visit to the site or inspection of court the site of the land dispute and courts failure

to consider such a suggestion of a site inspection by the Appellant. The Appellant

has failed to establish this point based on consent of parties. There has to be

consent of parties for a site inspection, according to the provisions of the Civil

Procedure Code and not otherwise. If there was agreement for a site inspection, no

appeal would lie - K.D.P. Wickremasingeh - Civil Procedure Code in Ceylon

Chapter 27 - pg. 453/454.

I cannot find any acceptable grounds urged in the Petition of Appeal.

There is no merit in this appeal. Plaintiff-Respondent's version is more probable in

the context of this case. The particular lot in plan P 1 and P 16 which is an access

road or path belongs to the Plaintiff by virtue of deeds. The Defendant cannot have

any right to same.

l

1Ili

tII /

l f t i l

!fl

~

6

The law is generally hostile to grant a servitude, whether by way of

presumption or by way of necessity. In case of doubt ·tiie presumption is against a

servitude. The onus of proving necessity is on the person who allege same -

Roman Dutch Law- R.W. Lee -5th Ed. pg. 176. See also Servitudes- Hall &

Kellaway pgs. 6 & 9; 49 NLR 350.

In all the above facts and circumstances I am not inclined to disturb

the findings of the leaned District Judge. I affirm the judgment of the District

Court. Appeal dismissed without costs.

Appeal dismissed.

GJ:Y~~

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

I ,.

'! ltf

I \!f