==== BLOCKS ==== 

In the Court of Appeal of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

CA 993j97F DC Galle: 10506jP

Before: A W A Salam J

Angulugaha Gamage

Nandawathie, Rajagedarawatta, Eththiligoda, Galle

Plaitiff-Appellant

Vs

Ahangama Liyanage Sumanadasa, Rajagedarawatta, Eth thiligoda, Galle

Defendant-Respondent

Counsel: N R M Daluwatta PC with Mrs M Maitipe for the 2nd and 3rd Defendant-Respondents, AMJ Hemantha for 18t and 4th defendant-respondent and Maduranga Ratnayaka with Shantha Jayawardena for the plaintiff-Appellant. Argued: 28.07.2010 Decided on: ~5· lJl. 2011ct

\ \ !

~ !

I I I f I i I I f I I Ii

t

I i i I f I ,

I ! I

I. I ! I

A W Abdus Salam,J

The subject matter of this partition action is depicted in the

preliminary plan No.3641 dated 19.6.1989 made by

W .A. Garvin de Silva, Commissioner of Court. After trial the

learned district judge entered interlocutory decree directing

that the corpus be partitioned among the co-owners in the

proportion of Y2 share to the plain tiff and 1/4 share each to the

18t and 2nd defendants.

A scheme of partition was accordingly suggested by

M.N.J.A.Perera, Commissioner of Court, by plan No.175 dated

18.5.1995. On the initiation of the plaintiff an alternative

scheme of partition (plan No.2/96 dated 31.12.1996) was

tendered through H.K.Alles, Licenced Surveyor.

When the matter of the inquiry into the scheme of partition

commenced parties agreed to abide by an order delivered by

court on the controversy after carrying out a site inspection by

the Judge. Having carried out the inspection in terms of the

agreement, the learned additional district judge made the

impugned order confirming the scheme of partition of the

commissioner i.e. that of M.N.J.A.Perera, as contemplated by

Partition Law ..

2

The present appeal has been preferred by the plaintiff against

the order confirming the said scheme of partition.

2-~sL ~rL The 3rd. and 4th-Defendant-Respondents have raised a

preliminary objection against the maintainability of the appeal.

The learned President's Counsel relies on the judgment in the

case of Suriyapperuma vs Senanayake (1989) 1 SLR page 325,

to drive home his argument as to the non-availability of a

statutory appeal against the impugned order.

In the case of Suriyapperuma vs Senanayake (supra) parties

agreed to abide by the decision of the judge after an inspection

of the land in dispute and also signified their consent by

signing the record. The inspection was carried out and

thereafter order was made declaring the plaintiff entitled to a

cartaway. On an appeal being preferred against the order

II I,

made, it was held that where parties agree to abide by the

court's decision after an inspection there is implied in it, a

waiver of all defences taken in the answer and a total

acceptance of the outcome of the court's decision. It was

further held that no right of appeal lies against such an order.

3

In the case of Walliamma vs Selliah 73 NLR 509 cited with

approval in Suriyapperuma's case Tennakoon J.(as he then

was) expressed the view based on an English case that the

judge in a civil case is given the power to inspect any place or

thing with respect to which any question arises in the course of

matter.

The value to be attached to an inspection carried out by a

judge in order to decide an issue before him has been

impeccably described by Birikett L.J. in Buckingham vs Daily

News Ltd. 1956 2 QB 534, 1956 2 All E R 904, 1956 3 WLR

375 in the following manner

"When a judge goes to see machinery, and sees it in operation when the parties are present and everything is done regularly and in order, it is just the same as though the machine were brought into court and demonstration made in the well of the court, so that the judge or judges may see it".

The value to be given to an inspection by a trial judge was observed by His Lordship Denning W in the case of Goold Vs Evans & Co 1951 TLR 1189 as follows ..

"It is fundamental principle of our law that the judge must act on the evidence before him and not on outside information; and, further, the evidence on which he acts must be given in the presence of both parties, or, at any rate, each party must be given an opportunity of being present. Speaking for myself, I

4 II i i

think that a view is a part of the evidence just as much as an exhibit. It is real evidence. The tribunal sees the real thing instead of having a drawing or a photograph of it. But, even if a view is not evidence, the same principles apply. The judge must make his 'view in the presence of both parties, or at any rate,

each party must be given an opportunity of being present. The only exception is when a judge goes by himself to see some public place, such as the site of a road accident, without either party present".

The learned counsel of the appellant has submitted that the

Partition Law does not allow the district judge to conduct a site

inspection to decide on the partition scheme and therefore the

parties in any event could not have agreed to abide by the

order based on such a site inspection. In the result, he urges

that the plaintiff could not have in any event waived his right of

appeal. In short, it has been submitted on behalf of the

appellant that the Civil Procedure Code has no application to

decide on the scheme of partition under the partition law, after

a site inspection.

In this respect it must be remembered that in terms of section

79 of the Partition Law, No 21 of 1977 in any matter or

question of procedure not provided for in the Partition Law, the

procedure laid down in the Civil Procedure Code in a like

5

Il

matter or question shall be followed, as long as such procedure

is not inconsistent with the Partition Law.

An inspection of the subject matter by the judge in order to

decide the question as to the feasibility of the division of the

subject matter among the co-owners in terms of the

interlocutory decree, on the invitation of the parties and with

their express consent to abide by the decision to be eventually

made after such inspection, in my opinion is perfectly in order

and not inconsistent with the Partition Law. Therefore, in such

an event the Provisions of the Civil Procedure Code can

conveniently be applied to fill the omission in a partition case.

For the above reasons, the preliminary objection raised on

behalf of the contesting defendants is upheld and appeal

dismissed.

There shall be no costs.

~CS!$. Judge of the Court of Appeal

Kwkj-

6