==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

Bandula Gunaratne

Appellant

Vs.

The Attorney- General

Respondent.

C.A.Appeal No. 23/11

H.C.Badulla No.64/2001

Before

Counsel

Sisira J. de Abrew ,J. and

P.W.D.C.Jayathilake,J.

Amila Palliyage Assigned Counsel for the accused-appellant

Thusith Mudalige SSC for the A.G.

2

Argued and

Decided on 28.08.2013

Sisira J. de Abrew, J.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted of the offence of

culpable homicide not amounting to murder on the basis of grave and

sudden provocation which is an offence punishable under Section 297 of the

Penal Code and was sentenced to a term of 15 years rigorous imprisonment

and to pay a fine of Rs. 7500/ =carrying a default sentence of 06 months

rigorous imprisonment. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the

sentence the accused-appellant has appealed to this Court. The facts of this

case as narrated by the prosecution witnesses may be briefly summarised as

follows:

Witness Raja was runnmg a vegetable stall in Welimada market.

The Local Authority of the area has allocated this particular Vegetable stall

to the accused-appellant. On the day of the incident around 11.00 am the

accused-appellant came to the vegetable stall run by Raja and questioned

him whether he was still running the vegetable stall. There was an argument

between Raja and the accused-appellant over the failure on the part of Raja

to vacate the Vegetable stall. The deceased who was reading a newspaper

near this vegetable stall also joined the argument and told the accused-

!

II

!I

i

I

il!IiI!

) Ii

II!

I ! \

3

appellant to keep away without disturbing the innocent people. The

accused-appellant thereafter left this place and the deceased too left the

place. This was the summary of the evidence of witness Raja. Little later

Sahabdeen who was working in a beef stall saw the accused-appellant

chasing after the deceased person. He also saw the accused-appellant

hurling a stone at the deceased person which did not strike him the

(deceased.) Thereafter the accused-appellant took a knife which was in the

beef stall. On seeing this, the deceased person too took a knife from one

of the fish stalls in the same market. The accused-appellant then attacked

the head of the deceased person with the knife. The deceased person did

not attack the accused-appellant. After the attack on the deceased person,

the accused-appellant went away carrying the knife.

The accused-appellant who gave evidence under oath stated

that he exercised his right of private defence when the deceased person

attacked him with a knife. The accused-appellant had sustained an injury.

The most important question that must be decided in this case is

whether the accused-appellant sustained an injury as a result of the attack

by the deceased person with a knife as claimed by the accused-appellant. I

now advert to this question. Although the accused-appellant says that he

sustained an injury on his forehead as a result of the attack by the deceased

4

person with a knife, he in his evidence says that he sustained this injury as

a result of the fight between him on one side and Raja and Peter on the

other side. He, at page 241 of the brief, stated this story before he stated the

story relating to the attack by the deceased person. Therefore it appears

from his own evidence that he has sustained an injury as a result of the

fight between him on one side and Raja and Peter on the other side.

The accused-appellant went to the police station In a

threewhe1er driven by Ajith Samarasinghe. When Ajith Samarasighe

questioned about his bleeding injury, he ( accused-appellant) did not tell

him that the deceased person attacked him with a knife. If he was attacked

by the deceased person with a knife, one would expect him to disclose the

way in which he sustained injuries at the very first opportunity. The

accused-appellant had not done this in this case.

Although the accused-appellant had taken up the defence of right of

Private defence, when Sahabdeen gave evidence he did not suggest to him

(Sahabdeen) that he exercised his right of private defence. This shows that

at the very inception of the trial he was not ready to put forward the defence

of private defence. His failure to suggest that he exercised his right of

private defence to the eye witness Sahabdeen renders his evidence

unacceptable. Further failure to suggest that he acted in his right of private

5

defence leads to the inference that the defence of right of private defence is

an afterthought. The accused-appellant at the trial had the opportunity of

challenging the eye witness's evidence by suggesting the right of private

defence to the witness. But he had not done so. Thus it leads to the

conclusion that the accused-appellant has not challenged the evidence of

the eye witness at the trial. The accused-appellant had only suggested to

the witness that he had not seen the incident and had given false evidence.

What happens when evidence given by a reliable witness on a material point

is not challenged in cross - examination. In the case of State of Himchal

Pradesh us. Thakur Dass 1983 2 Cri.L.J. 1694 at page 1701 V.D. Misra c.J.

held: "Whenever a statement of fact made by a witness is not challenged in

cross examination, it has to be concluded that the fact in question is not

disputed". When I consider all the above matters, I hold that the defence

of right of private defence put forward by the accused-appellant cannot be

accepted and that the said defence does not create any reasonable doubt in

the prosecution case. For the above reasons, I hold that the learned trial

judge was right when he rejected the defence of right of private defence put

forward by the accused- appellant. According to medical evidence led at the

trail, the deceased person had sustained a cut injury on the back of his

head. The depth of it was 6.5 cm. When I consider the evidence led at the

trial, I am of the opinion that I should not interfere with the judgment of the

learned Trial Judge.

6

For the above reasons, I affirm the conviction and the sentence and

dismiss the appeal. I direct the Prison Authorities to implement the sentence

from date of this Judgement.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C.Jayathilaka.J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

WC/-