==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA No: 993/96(F)

H.A.D. Wijepol Negombo Road, Kandana. And Others

Appellants Vs.

Kalubowilage Dona Sumanawathi No: 577, Negombo Road, Kandana.

Respondent

C.A. 993/96(F)

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED AND

DECIDED ON

K. T. CHITRASIRI, J.

D.C.Negombo No793/T

K. T. CHITRASIRI, J.

Intervenient -Petitioner-Appellants are absent

and unrepresented.

Sudharshanie Cooray for the Petitioner-Respondent and the 1st and the 2nd Respondent-Respondents.

17th June, 2013

1

When this matter was mentioned on 03.05.2013, both the

intervenient-petitioner-appellants were absent and unrepresented.

Accordingly, the Court directed the Registrar to send notices on those

two appellants directing them to be present in Court today as their

appeal is to be taken up for argument. Those two notices had been

returned with an endorsement that the two appellants are not found at

the addresses given on the two envelopes. The two addresses are the

addresses furnished by them in the notice of appeal and also in the

petition of appeal. In the circumstances this appeal is taken up for

consideration in their absence.

2

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the order dated 26th

August 1996 where an application, to issue letters of administration to

the two petitioner-appellants was refused. The said application by the

two petitioner-appellants is found at page 49 in the appeal brief. In

that, the two appellants have made an application to have letters of

administration issued to the 2nd appellant on the basis that their mother

is the wife of the deceased person namely H.A.D.Benadict whose estate

is being subjected to, in this case. The learned District Judge having

held an inquiry on this application has rejected their claim and has

issued the letters of administration to the petitioner-respondent namely,

K.D. Sumanawathie on the basis that she is the lawful wife of the

deceased H.A.D.Benadict.

At the mqutry, the marriage certificate to establish the marriage

between the deceased H.A.D.Benadict and the petitioner Sumanawathie

had been marked as "P2" (page 150 of the appeal brief) On the other

hand, no marriage certificate to prove the existence of a marriage

between the mother of the two appellants and the deceased Benadict was

produced at the inquiry. The appellants have relied upon the document

marked "V3" to establish their claim (page 160 of the appeal brief). In

that document, it is stated that no marriage between the deceased

Benadict and Sumanawathie had been registered on the 22nd of August

3

1980. The learned District Judge has looked at this document

carefully and had found that the marriage between the petitioner-

respondent namely Sumanawathie and Bennadict has taken place on

OSth August 1980. Therefore, it is clear that the two appellants had

only the document marked "V3" to disprove the existence of the

marriage between the deceased Benadict and the petitioner

Sumanawathie. Therefore, it is correct to Issue the letters of

administration to the petitioner Sumanawathie relying upon the

document marked "P2" which is the marriage certificate, produced to

establish the marriage between the deceased Benadict and the petitioner

Sumanawathie.

In the circumstances, I do not see any error on the part of

the learned District Judge when he refused the application made by the

petitioner-appellants. Accordingly, I am not inclined to interfere with the

said decision dated 26.08.1996 of the learned District Judge. For the

aforesaid reasons this appeal is dismissed with costs.

Appeal dismissed with costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Kwkj=