==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALSIT REPUBLIC

SRI LANKA

Weerakoon Mudiyanselage Loku Banda, Walpaluwa, Kagama;

Accused-Appellant C.A.Appeal No.131/2010 H.C.Anuradhapura No. HC 318/2003 Vs.

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

Sisira de Abrew, J.

Sisira de Abrew, J.

P.W.D.C.Jayathilake, J.

Hon. Attorney-General, Attorney-General's Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

Ranjith Meegaswatte for the Accused-Appellant

Dilan Ratnayake SSC for the Attorney-General.

26.02.2013

The accused-appellant produced by Prison Authorities is present in

Court.

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases.

1

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of a man

named Koshettige Don Anura Priyashantha and was sentenced to death. The

facts of this case may be briefly summarized as follows:-The deceased person

in this case was a person who conducted a business of selling illicit liquor.

Around 3.30 p.m on the day of the incident the accused person had come and

asked for liquor on credit. The deceased person had refused to give liquor on

credit as the accused had taken liquor on credit in the morning as well. When

the deceased person made the said refusal, accused kicked the deceased person

who fell on the ground. Thereafter he took a stick and gave a blow to the

deceased person. This was witnessed by witness Sheelarathne. The deceased

person thereafter did not want to go to the hospital as he did not feel any

ailment. However, at around 5.30 p.m. on the same day he was admitted to the

hospital as he was complainin:l'a headache. There was difficulty in speaking at

" this time. Later he died in the hospital. According to medical evidence there

were no external injuries. But there was internal hemorrhage. Cause of death is :

"Extra dural hemorrhage following blunt trauma to the head. " The accused in

this case gave evidence and took up the defence of right of private defence. The

accused had not taken up this private defence in his statement made to the

police. This was marked as an omission. Further the accused did not suggest his

defence to the prosecution witnesses. The learned trial Judge considering all

these matters had rejected the accused's evidence. In our view, rejection of the

accused's evidence by the learned trial Judge is correct. However, when we

2

consider the facts of this case we are unable to affirm the conviction of murder.

When we consider the facts of the case, we hold the view that the accused did not

have murderous intention but only had the knowledge that his act is likely to

cause death. In our view, the accused-appellant should have been convicted of

the offence of culpable homicide not amounting to murder on the basis of

knowledge. For the above reasons we set aside the conviction of murder and

substitute conviction of cui pable homicide not amounting to murder on the

basis of knowledge which is an offence punishable under Section 297 of the Penal

Code. We sentence the accused-appellant to a term of seven years rigorous

imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs.2500/- carrying a default of three months

simple imprisonment. The accused-appellant has been sentenced on 08.10.2010.

We direct the Prison Authorities to implement the sentence from the date of

conviction (08.10.2010). Subject to above variation of the verdict and sentence the

appeal of the appellant is dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

P.W.D.C.Jayathilake, I

I agree.

KLP/-

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

3