==== BLOCKS ==== 

• IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A.AppeaINo.182/2012

H.C. Panadura 2315/2007

Kanaththage Sarath alias

Maruthika

Accused -Appellant

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General,

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

Respondent

Before SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J. &

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA, J.

1

Counsel Sharon Seresinhe for the Accused-Appellant.

Shavindra Fernando D.S.G. for the State.

Argued &

Decided on 22.10.2013.

2

Sisira J. de Abrew. J.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted for rapmg a

girl named Kananke Vithanage Rohini. He was sentenced to a term

of 10 years rigorous im prisonmen t, to pay a fine of Rs. 15,000 j -

carrying a default sentence of six months simple imprisonment and

to pay a sum of Rs.I00,000j- as compensation to the victim

carrying a default sentence of two years ngorous imprisonment.

Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence he has

appealed to this Court Facts of this case briefly summarized as

follows:

At the time of the incident Rohini was under 13 years age. On

27.03.1990 when Rohini and the other family members including her

father who were sleeping in the house, two people came and knocked

on the door saying that they were from the police. Rohini's father

opened the door. Thereafter they entered the house and asked for

food. Rohini's father and Rohini later identified these two people as

the 1 st and 2nd accused. However the 1 st accused was acquitted as

his identity was not proved beyond reasonable doubt. After both

I

! ! ! I !

I I I

I I

I I i

1

3

accused asked for food, Rohini's father gave food to the two

accused. After eating the food, the 2nd accused (the accused-

appellant) told Rohini to go to the kitchen. She was asked to lie on a

mat. Thereafter the accused-appellant rubbed coconut oil on her

genital area. He also rubbed coconut oil on his male organ.

Thereafter the accused-appellant raped her. After raping the girl, the

accused- appellant ordered her to prepare tea. There was a bottle

lamp burning inside the house. At the time of the incident the bottle

lamp was taken to the kitchen. The father and the other inmates of

the house were kept under a table at the time that the accused-

appellant raped Rohini. Rohini identified the accused-appellant

subsequently at the identification parade. This was four years after

the incident. After the rape incident Rohini had felt that she was

bleeding from her vagina and there were blood stains on her frock.

The fact that there were blood stains on her frock was observed by

Rohini's father. Later this was also observed by Police Sergeant

Nandasena. According to the Police observation there was a swelling

on the fore-head of Rohini. Rohini says, prior to the incident, one of

them gave a blow on her head. Police could not get the medico-legal

report from the doctor who examined Rohini during the pendency

of the investigation. Rohini and the father made a prompt complaint

to the Police on the following morning. Father of Rohini too identified

4

the accused-appellant as the person who entered his house with the

other accused.

Learned Counsel for the accused-appellant contends that

the penetration has not been proved as there is no medical evidence.

It is true that there is no medical evidence on this point. At the time

of the trial the doctor who examined the victim had died. His

medical notes were also not available. Rohini very clearly says that

the mail organ of the accused-appellant was inserted in to her vagina

after applying coconut oil. The bottle of the coconut oil was also found

by the police near the mat on which she was raped. There were blood

stains on her frock after the incident. When we consider all these

matters, we are of the opinion that the penetration has been proved

beyond reasonable doubt although the prosecution failed to produce

medical evidence. We therefore reject the submission of learned

Counsel for the accused-appellant. The accused -appellant has been

identified by both Rohini and her father. We therefore hold that the

identity of the accused-appellant has been proved beyond reasonable

doubt.

Accused-appellant committed sexual intercourse against

!I

I

the will of Rohini. When we consider the evidence of this case, we

r j t ,

i.

5

hold the VIew that the prosecution has proved its case beyond

reasonable doubt. We therefore refuse to interfere with the judgment

of the learned trial judge. We affirm the conviction and the sentence

and dismiss the appeal.

The learned DSG brings to the notice of Court that the

accused-appellant is presently serving a sentence . We direct the

Prison Authorities to implement the sentence imposed by the learned

trial judge after he completes the sentence that he is serving.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

/mds

~

!

JtI. ,

f i,.

f

II!,

J

II! I, i I