==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No:201/2011

H.C. Kandy Case No:HC/140/2005

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

Lankapeli Gedara Upaly Senarath Dharmadasa.

Accused-Appellant Vs.

Hon. The Attorney General.

Respondent

SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J. (ACTING PICA) &

P.W.D.C. JAYATHI LAKA , J.

Bandara Senarath with Kaushalya Senevirathna for the Accused-Appellant.

Hiranjan Peiris, SSC, for the A.G.

11.02.2014 & 17.02.2014.

17.02.2014.

1

f t 1 I I I

I

SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J. (ACTING PICA)

Accused-appellant IS present m Court produced by the

Prison Authorities.

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases. The

accused-appellant in this case was convicted for raping a girl under

16 years of age named Diggage Rankoth Gedera Nirmala Samarasighe

and was sentenced to a term of 10 years rigorous imprisonment, to

pay a fine of Rs.5,OOO / -, carrying a default sentence of 6 months

simple imprisonment and to pay a sum of Rs.50,OOO / -as

compensation to the victim, carrying a default sentence of one year

simple imprisonment. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the

sentence the accused-appellant has appealed to this Court.

According to the facts of this case when the victim girl went

to the house of the accused-appellant, the wife of the accused-

appellant asked her to cook some rice. Thereafter the wife of the

accused-appellant went away from the house saying that she was

gomg to a neighbour's house. Thereafter, the accused-appellant

raped her. She says that at the time of the incident the accused-

2

I ,t I

,

I \

1 I !

appellant was armed with a knife. After this incident she has gone on

several occasions to the house of the accused-appellant and the

accused-appellant on two occasions has raped her. The prosecutrix

did not make immediate complaint to her mother. She did not make

immediate complaint to anybody. Mother has questioned her in the

month of August and thereafter she has revealed the incident to the

mother. The doctor who examined the prosecutrix has informed that

she was pregnant. She has delivered a child on 24.10.2001. The

incident, according to the indictment, was in the month of April,

2001. She says that this was her first sexual intercourse with a man

and the child was born as a result of the said sexual intercourse. If

this was her first sexual intercourse and the first sexual intercourse

took place in the month of April, it is impossible to have a child born

on 24.10.2001. She admitted, in her evidence, that the baby was not

a premature baby. Therefore on this ground itself the prosecution

case should fail.

She said, in her evidence, that sexual intercourse was in the

month of March. But later she has said her menses was stopped in

the first week in the month of May. Assuming without conceding that

sexual intercourse was in the month of March as alleged by her, then

the indictment should fail, because according to the indictment the

3 fftrI I I

t

f 1

date of offence was in the month of April, 2001. Thus, if the sexual

intercourse was in the month of March accused could not be

convicted on the indictment. Here too the prosecution case should

fail.

She was examined by a doctor in the month of August, 2001.

But surprisingly she has not stated the name of the accused-

appellant as the person who committed sexual intercourse on her to

the doctor. The question that arises is as to why she did not mention

the accused's name to the doctor. I am unable to find an answer to

this question. This raises a serious doubt in the prosecution case.

At one stage she claims that sexual intercourse was in the

month of March. What was the delay in bringing this matter to the

notice of her mother? She says since the accused-appellant was

armed with a knife and she was threatened by the accused she did

not tell the mother. Then the question arises as to why she went to

the accused-appellant's house on several occasions and faced sexual

intercourse with the accused-appellant. This also raises a very

serious doubt in the prosecution case. Learned trial Judge has failed

to consider the above matters. When we consider the above matters,

4

I!f ! I

f

t! I;II,

,

t

I

l

j

1

I I

we hold the view that the prosecution has not proved its case beyond

reasonable doubt. We therefore set aside the conviction and the

sentence and acquit the accused-appellant. Appeal is allowed.

Appeal allowed.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

TW

5

I

f Il

\

I

I,,1I

f

I

\

ffirI

;

J