==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA Case No CA 08/04 H.C.Awissawella No.55/2002

Withanage Somasiri

Accused Appellant Vs. Hon Attorney General

Respondent

CA Appeal No. 08/2004 H.C.Awissawella No.55/2002

Before Sisira,J. de Abrew ,J. Acting (P / CAl and

P.W.D.C.JayathUaka,J.

Counsel Suranga Bandara for the Accused-

Appellant

Varunika Hettige SSC for the A. G.

Argued and

Decided on 02.12.2013

Sisira,J. de Abrew ,J. Acting (PICA

Accused-Appellant who is on bail is present in Court.

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted of the

offence of culpable homicide not amounting to murder on the basis

of grave and sudden provocation. Facts of this case may be briefly

summarized as follows:

The deceased in this case was living in the neighbourhood of

the accused-appellant. The deceased person had engaged in brewing

of illicit arrack. The accused person had given information about

1

deceased's illicit arrack to the police. It appears from the evidence

the accused-appellant, long prior to the incident of this case, had

~ engaged in brewing of,. illicit arrack. According to the evidence led

at the trial he had stopped his illicit business at the time of this

incident. On 09th of July 2001 the deceased person had come to

meet the accused person and made inquiries about him from witness

Lesly Jayawardena. This incident took place in the morning. The

deceased person went away since he could not meet the accused -

appellant. Later in the evening he again came and made inquiries

about the accused-appellant from witness Lesly Jayawardena. The

deceased person decided to wait near the house of the accused-

appellant as the accused-appellant was not at home. When the

accused-appellant, in the evening came home, the deceased person

inquired from the accused-appellant whether he had given

information about the illicit arrack of deceased person and the

accused-appellant admitted that he gave information about the illicit

arrack of the deceased person. Then the deceased person started

assaulting the accused -appellant. Even prior to this, deceased

person had been scolding to the accused-appellant. When the

deceased person started assaulting the accused-appellant, he took a

knife and stabbed the deceased person. At this time the 2nd accused

~ who was acquitted by the trial Judge, came ~to this place armed

with a sword. The Accused-appellant at this stage took the sword

brought by the 2 nd accused and gave several blows to the deceased

person. The deceased person was a person who for slightest thing

2

I

f

was In the habit of assaulting the people in the area. When we

consider all these facts, we feel that the punishment imposed by the

learned trial Judge on the accused-appellant is excessive. He has

been sentenced to a term of 10 years rigorous imprisonment and to

pay a fine of Rs.SOOO j - carrying a default sentence of 1 year rigorous

im prisonment. We set aside the term of 10 years rigorous

imprisonment and sentence him to a term of 3 years rigorous

imprisonment. The fine imposed by the learned trial Judge remains

unaltered. Subject to the above variations of the sentence the appeal

of the accused -appellant is dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C.JayathUaka,J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

WCj-

3

1

~.

t