==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA writ 784/09

In the matter of an application for orders in

the nature of writs of Certiorari in terms of

Article 140 of the constitution of the

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

D.M.M. Dissanayake

Dissanayake Textiles,

Main Street,

Rambukkana.

-Petitioner-

VS.

1. K.P. Ranasinghe

Dharmapala Mawatha,

Rambukkana.

2. The Rent Board of Review,

G 10, Sri Vipulasena Mawatha,

Colombo 10.

-Respondents-

Rent Board of Review Appeal No. 5794

Rent Board of Rambukkana

Application No. RBIRBIPE/2003/06

1

I

i 1

t

BEFORE : S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J.

D. S. C. LECAMWASAM, J.

COUNSEL : B.C. Balasuriya for the petitioner

Ganga Udaya Kumari for the 1 st respondent

ARGUED ON : 15/ 12/2010

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS ON : 27/01/ 2011 by the 1 st respondent

DECIDED ON 22/02/2011

D. S. C. Lecamwasam J.

The Respondent in this case filed an application before the Rent Board of

Rambukkana, seeking a declaration declaring him as the tenant of premises bearing

Assessment No.144, Kurunegala Road, Rambukkana and seeking permission of

the Rent Board to deposit the monthly rent with the Pradeshiya Sabha as the

landlord refuses to accept payment. After inquiry the Rent board held with the

Respondent (applicant in that application) and being dissatisfied with the above

decision the petitioner (respondent in that application) appealed to the Board of

Review which in tum affirmed the decision of the Rent Board and dismissed the

appeal. Now the petitioner in this application is seeking writs of certiorari to quash

the decision made by the Rent Board of Review and to set aside the order of the

Rent Board of Rambukkana.

2

The petitioner's main contention is that the Board of Review has failed to

consider the fact that there is no contract of tenancy in existence in relation to

premises bearing Assessment No.144 and the board of review has not considered

the documents filed in this case in the proper perspective.

On a perusal of the proceedings and documents before the Rent Board, it is

apparent that there is a measure of confusion as to assessment numbers. This

confusion had arisen due to the issuance of rent receipts by the father of the

petitioner, i.e. the previous landlord, in which the assessment No. is stated as 146

instead of 144. But in all those receipts "kone kamaraya or kelawara kotasa" is

stated, alluding to the fact that the room in question is the room at the comer or the

very end of the premises. It is therefore evident that the respondent was in

occupation of only one room and not more than one room. Hence whether the

assessment number is 144 or 146, tenancy rights are only claimed in respect of one

room.

Having established this it is also evident that although the petitioner's father

created a confusion by stating No.146 on the receipts, receipts issued by the

Electricity Board since 1997 and the receipts issued by the Pradeshiya Sabha in

respect of taxes for 1984,1985,1989 and 1991 give the number as No.144. Even if

there was some confusion, the petitioner himself has erased any doubt by issuing

letter dated 01 st March 2003 addressed to the respondent, requesting the

respondent to hand over possession ofNo.144. Therefore petitioner himself knew

and accepted that the particular room in question was 144 and not 146, and on the

strength of such acceptance is estopped from denying the existence of a tenancy in

respect of room bearing assessment No. 144.

3

Therefore on an overall consideration of facts before this court and before

the Rent Board and the Rent Board of Review I find that the above Boards had

come to the correct conclusion on the facts available before those two boards and

hence I find that there is no merit in this application and the application for writs of

certiorari is dismissed without costs.

Judge ~ppeal

Sri Skandarajah, J I agree

~/' //t---\. ~udge of the Court of Appeal

4