==== BLOCKS ==== 

t I I I i 1 I I I I I I

I I ! ! I

1

! I

j

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for Revision

in terms of Article 138 of the Constitution read with Section 364 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act No.15 of 1979.

Director General, Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery and Corruptions

Petitioner

Vs CA (PHC) APN 135/2010 HC Colombo 1833/2010

Before

Counsel

Argued on Decided on

Lokubadu Dayachandra Gamini J ayasooriya

Sisira de Abrew J & K.T. Chitrasiri J

Accused Respondent

Kapila Waidyarathne DSG for the Petitioner

Dr. Ranjith Fernando for the Respondent.

24.5.2011 30.6.2011

1 r t I ,

I

I

t ! I I

2

Sisira de Abrew J.

The petitioner in this case seeks to revise the order of the learned

High Court Judge (HCJ) dated 8.7.2010 discharging the accused respondent

from the indictment preferred against him by the petitioner.

The accused respondent (hereinafter referred to as the accused) was

indicted in the High Court of Colombo under Section 20 (V 1) of the Bribery

Act for soliciting a sum of Rs.600,0001- from one Florida Jayasinghe

Gunasekara to secure the release of one MPP Padmathilake who was on

remand in connection with an offence under the Immigration and Emigration

Act. Before the indictment was read to the accused, learned counsel

appearing for the accused in the High Court objected to the indictment on

the ground that securing a release of a suspect from the magistrate Court

does not fall within the meaning of 'benefit from the Government'. In order

to appreciate the objection it is necessary to consider Section 20 of the

Bribery Act which reads as follows.

A person-

(a) who offers any gratification to any person as an inducement or a

reward for-

(i) omitted

(ii) omitted

(iii) omitted

(iv) omitted

(v) omitted

3

(vi) his procuring, or furthering the securing of, any grant, lease

or other benefit from the Government for the first mentioned

person or for any other person, or

(vii) omitted·

(b) who solicits or accepts any gratification as an inducement or a reward

for his doing any of the acts specified in sub-paragraphs (i), (ii),(iii),

(iv), (v), (vi), and (vii) of paragraph (a) of this section,

shall be guilty of an offence punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a

term of not more than seven years and a fine not exceeding five thousand

rupees.

The learned HC] held that getting a suspect discharged from the

Magistrate Court does not fall within the meaning of 'benefit from the

Government'. He therefore, by his order dated 8.7.2010, discharged the

accused from the indictment.

Being aggrieved by the said order, the petitioner has filed this

petition to revise it. I will now examine the correctness of the learned Hcrs

order. A suspect or an accused in a Magistrate's Court can be discharged in

so many ways. I may cite few instances. The officer-in-charge of a Police

Station who filed the B report making allegations against a suspect can later

withdraw the B report for want of evidence. The officer-in-charge of a

Police Station can inform the Magistrate that he would not file charges

against the suspect as no evidence is found against the suspect. The Attorney

General can take over prosecution in the Magistrate's Court and move court

to discharge the accused as there is no evidence against the accused. It is

therefore seen that the discharge of a suspect/accused can be secured as a

• 4

result of decisions of government officers. Thus when somebody solicits a

gratification to get a suspect in the Magistrate's Court discharged, one

cannot say that it does not fall within the meaning of' benefit from the

. Government. In fact according to the statements of witnesses attached to the

indictment gratification had been solicited to be given to the Magistrate and

the officer-in-charge of the Police Station.

For the reasons stated above, I hold that the learned HCJ was in error

when he discharged the accused. I therefore set aside the order of the learned

HCJ dated 8.7.2010 and direct him to proceed with the trial. The Registrar of

the Court is directed to send back the original case record to the High Court

of Colombo with a copy of this order.

Petition allowed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

KT Chitrasiri J

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.