==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A. APPEAL No: - 75/98 (F) D.C. Colombo Case No.6212/ZL

Vajira lanaki Hettiarachchi Nethicumara, No.310/6, Pannipitiya Road, Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

Substituted-Substituted –Defendant-Appellant Vs. Semage Ruwani Sumeda Wijeyewardena, No.128/2, Kohalwila Road, Kelaniya

Substituted – Plaintiff – Respondent

C.A. Appeal No. 75/98(F) D.C. Colombo No. 6212/ZL

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

K.T. Chitrasiri,J.

K.T. CHITRASIRI, J.

Faiz Musthapha P.C. with Faizer Musthapha P.C. with Santha Jayawardena for the Defendan t -Appellant

Rohan Sahabandu with Samithrie Kumarawadu for the Substituted-Plaintiff-Respondent

13.01.2014

Mr. Faiz Musthapha President's Counsel, concluded his

submissions having argued the appeal today and previously on

21.06.2013. He submitted that the learned District Judge has not

addressed her mind at all to the question of prescription which

was raised by the defendant-appellant as the issue No.4 when the

matter was taken up for trial in the District Court on the 9th of

September 1994.

1

I

\ IIi

\ It

\

t

f I

f ,I I I

t I ! I I

,

1 ,

j

In VIew of the above submission, Court inquired from the

learned President's Counsel for the resRond~nt as to the areas

where the learned District Judge has dealt with, in respect of the

said issue of prescription taken up by the defendant. His

submission on this point is that the learned District Judge has

disregarded the evidence of the two witnesses who supported the

claim of prescription of the appellant. He is unable to show the

places where the learned trial judge has discussed the issue of

prescription or at least the places where he has identified such an

issue.

Accordingly, it is clear that the learned trial judge has not

specifically considered the prescriptive claim of the defendant at

any stage. Therefore, it is seen that the learned District Judge has

failed to look at the issue of prescription in a judicious manner. In

the circumstances, both counsel agree to have a re-trial allowing

the trial Judge to consider the evidence as to the prescriptive claim

of the appellant.

The best person to determine the question of prescription is

the trial Judge who hears the evidence rather than this Court

making a decision upon perusing the evidence already recorded

since it involves facts and circumstances of the issue. Therefore

this Court also is of the view that it is better to have a trial de-novo

2

~ , iI

f

I

J I

~

f , r I ! I I

I in order to determine the issue of prescription. Admittedly, it is the

only issue that is to be decided in this case.

Accordingly, both the President's Counsel at this stage agree

to have a re-trial only on the issue of prescription raised as the

issue No.4 by the defendant. Accordingly, the matter is referred

back to the District Court for re-trial to determine the limited

question of prescription. In view of the above, the answer given by

the learned District Judge to the issue No. 1 would stand as it is.

Answers to the other issues are set aside allowing the sitting trial

judge in the District Court of Colombo to determine the remaining

3 issues. In view of the above, the defendant will have to

commence the case in the District Court in order to establish his

claim of prescription. In the light of the above, the judgment dated

13. 12. 1996 is varied to the extent referred to above. Learned

District Judge is directed to take steps accordingly.

Appeal is partly allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

jmds

3

\ r I II

t I l t t I I I t I !

t ,

} t

\ II

f I , ! , 1 ,

f ,