==== BLOCKS ==== 

1 I J

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Kimnasamy Navasivam Thever

Galabada Estate, Gallella,

Ratnapura.

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

C.A 170/2009

H.C. Ratnapura 55/2005

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Sunil Rajapaksa J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

RESPONDENT

Saliya Peiris with Gayan Maduwage

For the Accused-Appellant

Wasantha Nawaratne Bandara A.S.G., for the Respondent

1

I

1

1

2

ARGUED ON: 28.04.2014

DECIDED ON: 26.06.2014

GOONERATNE J.

The Accused-Appellant was indicted in the High Court of Ratnapura

for committing the murder of one Muththuraman on 4.9.2000 at Galabada Estate,

Gallella, and sentenced to death. In brief the prosecution case is as follows:

The main witness who gave evidence was the deceased's son. It is

stated that witness, his deceased father, and sister was in the house and after

dinner all of them went to sleep. At about 1.00 a.m on the day of the incident

somebody tapped at the door. Witness opened the door and saw the Accused. He

was able to identify the Accused with the light of the lamp and sufficient moon

light as the Accused was known to the family for some years. Accused called the

deceased who was asleep. When the deceased came forward the Accused held

the deceased by his shirt and pushed him. All this happened near the door step.

Accused demanded money from the deceased, and went away and returned with

a sword and attacked the deceased with a sword which hit the head of the

I. ,

1(II

JI

3

deceased, who fell, and as such the witness had shouted. Accused also attempted

to attack the witness. Distance between the Accused's house and the deceased

house was about 30 feet. Witness ran and hid near flower bushes near the house

and watched as to what the Accused was doing at that moment. Thereafter the

Accused came with a spear (@@@o qa) and attacked the deceased on the chest

area/legs forehead and all over the body of the deceased. Then some other

witness intervened to stop the attack.

The deceased was thereafter taken to hospital and he died on

14.9.2000 (About 10 days after the incident). The learned counsel for the

Accused-Appellant mainly focused his argument based on medical evidence. He

emphasized and submitted to court that in the light of the medical evidence the

chain of causation of this death has not been established by the prosecution and

\

I

as such the Accused should not have been convicted of murder. The learned

counsel submitted that the conviction should be set aside and a conviction for a

lesser offence and a lesser sentence may be imposed or in the alternative to set

aside the conviction and order a re-trial. He also submitted that a reasonable

doubt arose based on medical evidence learned counsel inter alia submitted that

the Accused's dock statement had been devalued by the trial Judge and the alibi

not considered. The trial Court had also misdirected itself on the burden of proof.

4

Medical evidence suggests only one grievous injury and several other contusions.

What impact does it have on the liver of the deceased to connect the Accused for

murder of the deceased?

The learned Add/. Solicitor General whilst supporting the prosecution

case referred to the evidence of witness No.1 the son of the deceased to be

consistent and that the omissions suggested in cross-examinations are not

material to the prosecution case, and that there were no material contradictions

marked. learned Additional Solicitor General also commented on the medical

evidence and emphasized that the cause of pneumonia was due to the particular

injuries caused to the deceased by the Accused. There were 22 injuries, which

could have been caused by the weapon that was used for the commission of the

offence (pg. 87). The cause of death due to multiple injuries from a sharp and

blunt weapon, including a fracture of the bones and that complications associated

with the liver disease. (Pg. 88) He emphasized on the evidence recorded at pgs.

89, 93 and 99 of the brief. These items of evidence would clearly show that the

death was due to the injuries that were caused, by the Accused. learned Add/.

Solicitor General relied on the case reported in CA 34/2002; H.C. Ratnapura

119/93 decided on 19/7/2007.

If I

f r ! t i Ii

f I f II! I i I f i

( \

5

The medical evidence led in this case would take the court to accept

or reject the position of convicting, the Accused for a lesser offence? I find that I I

initially the Medical Officer suggested bare medical facts to make court realize

that the injuries inflicted was sufficient to cause the death of the deceased.

However the medical officer whilst being probed and cross-examined provided

more and more details of the deceased person. The illness that was prevailing as

at the date of examination of the deceased and the illness that prevailed and the

resulting consequences are fairly dealt in the evidence of the medical officer. The

Doctor testified to some 22 injuries. Some of the injuries are described as 'healed'

and some as 'healing' and injuries below the skin. Report suggest a variety of

injuries. The type of weapon used had been divulged by the Doctor as an opinion.

It is also stated that a sharp cutting weapon or a blunt weapon could have caused

the injuries and fracture of bones and injuries/fracture would cause death.

Further the deceased had a condition of a damaged liver. If the liver condition

was neglected death could have occurred. The fracture of the bones of the legs

could also have caused the death.

Medical Officer has also expressed the view that with the fracture of

the bone of the leg there would be a loss of blood and pneumonia likely to occur.

The spreading of the liver deceased would also have an impact.

IIiIi

J!

\

r.

~ II

f f t J

6

I note the following from the evidence of the Medical Officer. The

death could have occurred as follows:

(a) Pneumonia is a lung decease which weaken the system and death could

follow due to difficulty in breathing

(b) Mainly due to pneumonia.

(c) Pneumonia entered the body due to fracture of bones.

(d) Being bed ridden for some time would accelerate death due to pneumonia.

(e) Damaged liver due to consumption of liquor.

(f) Damaged liver would also have an impact on the deceased.

(g) Health condition that prevailed earlier would also contribute to his death.

In the above circumstances more particularly looking at (e), (f) & (g), I

would draw the conclusions as referred to in the following case laws, since court

need to be guided in instances where medical opinion suggest several views

which could cause the death of the deceased.

Mendis vs. The Queen 54 NLR 177

Held: that as the injured man's death was not immediately referable to the injury actually

inflicted but was traced to some condition which arose as a supervening link in the chain of

causation, it was essential in such cases that the prosecution should, in presenting a charge

of murder, be in a position to place evidence before the Court to establish that "in the

iIt

J t i 1I tIt t

1I

\

7

ordinary course of nature" there was a very great probability (as opposed to a mere

likelihood) (a) of the supervening condition arising as a consequence of the injury inflicted,

and also (b) of such supervening condition resulting in death.

"it is essential in such cases that the prosecution should, in presenting a charge of murder,

be in a position to place evidence before the Court to establish that "in the ordinary course

of nature", there was a very great antecedent probability (as opposed to a mere likelihood)

(a) of the supervening condition arising as a consequence of the injury inflicted, and also (b)

of such supervening condition resulting in death. Applying this test to the present case, we

think that Dr. de Saram's evidence does not go far enough to establish the first of these

requirements beyond reasonable doubt. (P-180)"

C. Abeysundera, Appellant, and The Queen the Court held that:

"Although in examination-in-chief the Doctor expressed the view that, considering her age

and the injuries, the broncho-pneumonia was a natural and probable consequence of the

treatment that ensured upon the injuries, in cross-examination he stated that as a result of

surgical treatment the injuries were healing and it was unfortunate that she had contracted

broncho-pneumonia. His final assessment of the position was that broncho-pneumonia was

a possibility and not a probability. The medical evidence therefore at least created a

reasonable doubt whether the death of the deceased nearly two weeks later was as a result

of the injuries inflicted by the appellant" (P-170)

I do agree with the learned defence counsel that it cannot be said

with certainty that pneumonia was the inevitable cause of the injuries inflicted

on the deceased person. Medical evidence create a reasonable doubt of the

death which occurred 10 days later was as a result of inflicted injuries. In the

III

I!

1

\

I I

8

submissions before this court by learned counsel for defence as well as in the

written submissions that if the court arrives at a conclusion as above Appellant

need not pursue the other grounds.

In view of the position and submissions made by learned counsel for

the Accused-Appellant this court is convinced that the Accused could be

convicted for the offence of culpable homicide not amounting to murder. In

the case in hand although there is direct evidence of injuries being caused to

the deceased by the Accused, difficulties attach to the case itself in view of the

medical evidence and more particularly for the reason that the injured man's

death cannot be made immediately referable to the injuries actually inflicted

but to prevailing health condition of the deceased. i.e liver infection and or a

lung infection resulting in pneumonia which by the infliction of injuries

aggravated the situation. As such conviction of murder would not be justified

in the circumstances and in the context of the case in hand Evidence

transpired in court from the medical officer establish that there was

probability in a lesser degree of death ensuing from the act committed, the

finding should be and the conviction based on culpable homicide not

amounting to murder. The case cited by learned Add!. Solicitor General (CA

1II l IIf

! f

\

9

34/2002) cannot be made directly applicable to the case in hand. In CA

34/2002 the deceased was not detected with the prevailing illness.

In all the above circumstances we therefore quash the conviction for

murder and substitute in the case of the Appellant a conviction for culpable

homicide not amounting to murder. We sentence the Accused-Appellant to

undergo a terms of 15 years rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 15,000/-

which carries a default sentence of 1 years simple imprisonment.

Conviction altered as above. Sentence to run from the date of

delivery of this judgment.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

N.S. Rajapaksa J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

III IIt f I I

If i !