==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A. No: 78-79/10

Attorney General, Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

Complainant Vs. Hapuarachchige Nihal Sisira Kumara Karunaratne No. 76 A, Maulgama, Kottawa.

Accused And Hapuarachchige Nihal Sis ira Kumara Karunaratne No. 76 A Maulgama, Kottawa.

Accused-Appellant Vs. Attorney General, Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12

Complainant- Respondent

CA78-79/2010

Before Anil Gooneratne, J

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J

Counsel Anil Silva P.C. with Lasitha Chathurange

for the Accused - Appellant.

Chathiya Goonesekara SSC for the AG

Argued &

Decided on 31.03.2014

Anil Gooneratne, J

Learned President's Counsel for the Accused - Appellant and as well as Senior

State Counsel for the Respondent heard in regard to the facts of this case. The

Accused - Appellant was indicted under section 486 of the Penal Code.

Learned High Court Judge has convicted the accused and sentenced him for a

period of 4 years rigorous imprisonment with a fine of Rs.50,000 / - and a

default sentence of 1 years rigorous imprisonment.

Learned President's Counsel submitted the facts in mitigation of the sentence.

The position as at today is that a period of 12 years have lapsed from the date

of offence. The offence committed on 20.11.2001. To briefly set down the facts

of this case is that the OlC Haguranketha was on official duty on the date in

question. He had been given instructions to remove flags and posters of the

Na/-

I

II f

~

f Ii fIi ii

~ ! f'

1I1iiIifI

, fIi I l

•

political parties in and around the place of a political meeting. The Accused

Appellant was the Director of the Presidential Security Division (PSD). He had

been on duty at another election meeting at Doramadulla. Her Excellency the

President was scheduled to be present. It was also submitted, according to the

evidence that transpired in the High Court that the above OIC of Haguranketha

was also present at the meeting Doramadulla. Evidence reveals that there had

been an exchange of words between the Accused = Appellant and the above

O.I.C. Having considered the submissions of the Learned President's Counsel

and also that of the Senior State Counsel it is our view that this is a fit case to

act in terms of section 303 of the Criminal Procedure Code. As such this court

will proceed to vary the sentence. Accordingly we vary the sentence for 2 years

ngorous imprisonment suspended for a period of 5 years. However the fine

imposed by the Learned High Court Judge remains unaltered (Rs.50, 000).

Subject to the above variation of sentence the appeal is dismissed. Registrar is

directed to send a copy of this order and the case record to the High Court of

Kandy. We also direct the Learned High Court Judge to explain the liability

under Section 304 of the Criminal Procedure Code, to the Accused - Appellant

on being produced before the High Court.

PoWoDoCo Jayathilaka, J

I agree

Na/-

Judge of the Court of Appeal