==== BLOCKS ==== 

..

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA Case No: CA 178/2013

High Court Galle: HC 3033

In the matter of an appeal from the

Judgment of the Learned High Court

Judge of Galle dated 2013/09/03

delivered in case No. HC 3033 in terms of

the provisions of Section 331 (1) of

Chapter xxvii part-A of the Code of

Criminal Procedure Act No.1S of 1979 as

amended.

Hon. Attorney General,

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

Complainant

1. Iswaran Sathasiwam

2. Subramaniam Thillenathan

Accused - Appellants

1

BEFORE

COUNSEL

And Now

1. Iswaran Sathasiwam

Petiyagoda watte, Thellambura,

Nakiyadeniya.

2. Subramaniam Thillenathan

Petiyagoda watte, Thellambura,

Nakiyadeniya.

Accused Appellants

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General,

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

2

Respondent

R.NJ. PERERA, J

P.W.D.C. JAYATRILAKE, J

Prasantha Lal de Alwis P. C with

T. Mulawwethantri for the Accused

Appellant.

Dappula de Livera p.e, A.S.G for

the Respondent.

ARGUED ON 15.10.2014

DECIDED ON 27.11.2014

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J

Eshwaran Sathasiwam and Subramanium Thillenadhan the 1

st and the 2

nd

Accused respectively have been indicted for the murder of Ammavasi

Balakrishnan under Sec. 296 read with Sec.32 of the Penal Code. Both Accused

have been convicted for culpable homicide not amounting to murder under

Sec. 297 of the Penal Code and have been sentenced to seven years rigorous

imprisonment and a fine of Rs: 10000/= was imposed on each. Further it has

been ordered to pay Rs: 50000/= by each accused to the wife and children of

the deceased as compensation carrying a default sentence of one year rigorous

3

imprisonment. Being dissatisfied with the said conviction and the sentence

Accused Appellants have filed this appeal in this court.

Facts of the above case are briefly as follows;

The two Accused Appellants and the deceased were members of estate

workers families, who were residing in estate line rooms. On the day of the

incident when the two Accused Appellants were returning after playing cricket

Suppaiyah, the father in law of the deceased had questioned them of their

uttering filthy words. Then the 1st Accused Appellant had removed his pair of

shorts up to knees to exibit his private part and thereafter had pushed

Suppaiyah. When Suppaiyah had fallen, the deceased, son in law of Suppaiyah

had come to the scene where Suppaiyah had fallen. At that moment, the 1st

and the 2nd Accused Appellants had assaulted the deceased with a wooden bat

and a club. Balakrishnan, the deceased had died after admission to the hospital.

There had been two fatal injuries caused to the head of the deceased according

to the evidence of the Judicial Medical Officer. The Medical Officer was not

certain whether one of the two injuries had been caused either by a blow on

the head or by the head hitting the floor.

An allegation brought by the learned counsel for the Accused Appellant against

the prosecution case is that failure to call a vital witness to the incident as a

4

witness in the prosecution case. He brought the attention of the court to the

evidence of ASP Prasad Ranasingha who had conducted the preliminary

investigations, and had accepted the suggestion made by the defense counsel

of the trial, that one Karuppan Shivalingam came forward to give evidence

when the Magistrate observing the crime scene, and questioning the people

who had gathered there whether there was anyone who had seen the incident.

ASP has further stated that he had given instructions to the police officer who

was assisting him to record the statement of the said person. The argument of

the learned counsel was that inference which could be drawn of not calling the

said person as a prosecution witness was that his evidence was unfavorable to

the prosecution case. He also submitted that it was a fact revealed in evidence

that two gangs of residents living in line rooms had pelted stones at each other.

He further pointed out that admittedly the productions marked by the

prosecution at the trial were not related to the crime.

The learned Additional Solicitor General made the following submissions in

supporting the conviction. The incident of crime had taken place in broad day

light in an open area. All parties connected to the case were well known to one

another as they were relations and also neighbours. Two injuries of the

deceased had been caused by a blunt weapon according to the medical

5

evidence and this opinion is consistent with eye witnesses' testimony. The use

of a bat as a weapon had not been challenged at the trial.

The learned Solicitor General argued that the contents of statements of the

witnesses whom had not been called by the prosecution are not known to this

court. But they were available to the prosecution, the defense counsel and the

trial judge. Therefore if the defense had wanted to call any of those witnesses

either to refute the prosecution case or to support the defense case there had

been no bar in doing so. He moves that the verdict of the trial court to be set

aside and the Accused Appellants to be called upon to show cause why they

should not be convicted for the charge of murder. The learned Deputy Solicitor

General made an application to enhance the sentence imposed by the trial

judge.

When the learned trial judge was analyzing the evidence of the prosecution

witnesses he had observed that even though the 2nd Accused Appellant had

come to the place of incident carrying a club, three witnesses who have given

evidence had not seen the 2nd Accused Appellant assaulting the deceased. But

it was the conclusion of the learned trial judge that as the 2

nd accused carrying

a club had come along with the 1st accused, it shows that he had acted in

common intention with the 1st accused. Learned trial judge has convicted the

Accused Appellants for culpable homicide not amounting to murder on the

6

I I I I i I ,! I 1 1 I I I

f !

I I I ! I I

I l

basis that it appeared that they had no intention of killing the deceased when

considering the number of blows received by and the nature of injuries caused

to the deceased.

"Whoever causes death by doing an act with the intention of causing death, or

with the intention of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death, or

with the knowledge that he is likely by such act to cause death" is said to

commit culpable homicide according to Sec.293 of the Penal Code. There are

three means of committing the offence of culpable homicide according to the

above mentioned section. One is having the intention of causing death, the

second is having the intention of a physical injury which may cause death and

the third is being aware that his act could lead to death. The definition about

culpable homicide described in Sec.293 includes the offence of murder and the

culpable homicide not amounting to murder. An act included in the above

definition becomes a murder under the instances described in Sec.294 only.

Firstly, if the act is committed with the intention of causing death; the second is

causing a physical injury which he knows could result in death; the third is

causing a physical injury intentionally which is sufficient to cause death; and

fourthly if the person committing the act is aware that it is so dangerous that it

necessarily leads to death. Where one needs to know what is meant by

culpable homicide not amounting to murder is, what has to be done is to

7

\

IIII

~

\,

deduct the Sec. 294 from Sec. 293. Then, the remainder is the culpable

homicide not amounting to murder.

As stated earlier, the opinion of the learned trial judge expressed in convicting

the Accused Appellants for culpable homicide not amounting to murder was

that "actus reus" of the Accused Appellants does not reflect "mens rea"

required for convicting one for a murder. If the opinion of the trial judge is

interpreted to say that the intention is necessary ingredient in convicting for a

charge of murder, obviously it is an erroneous conclusion, as the limb IV of 294

refers to the "knowledge" in the absence of intention. But my opinion here is

that even if the trial judge has not implicitly stated, what he had meant here

was that the degree of knowledge reflected by the act of Accused Appellants

was insufficient to convict them for the charge of murder.

It is pertinent to quote a passage from the judgment of H.N.G. Fernando CJ in

the case of Somapala v. The Queen (72 NLR 121)

'7he 3,d limb of s.294 postulates one element which is also present in the

second clause of s.293, namely, the element of the intention to cause bodily

injury; but whereas the offence of culpable homicide is committed, as stated in

the second clause of s.293, when there is intention to cause bodily injury likely

to cause death, the offence is one of murder under the 3,d limb of s.294 only

when the intended injury is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause

8

death. In our opinion, it is this 3,d limb of s.294 which principally corresponds to

the second clause of s.293; and (as is to be expected) every intention

contemplated in the latter second clause is not also contemplated in the former

3,d limb. An injury which is only likely to cause death is one in respect of which

there is no certainty that death will ensue, whereas the injury referred to in the

3,d limb of s.294 is one which is certain or nearly certain to result in death if

there is no medical or surgical intervention. This comparison satisfies us that the

object of the Legislature was to distinguish between the cases of culpable

homicide defined in the second clause of s. 293, and to provide in the 3,d limb of

s. 294 that only the graver cases (as just explained) will be cause of murder. If

this was not the object of the Legislature, then there would be no substantial

difference between culpable homicide as defined in the second clause of s. 293

and murder as defined in the 3,d limb of s. 294. It will be seen also that if the

object of the 2nd limb of s. 294 was to adopt more or less completely the second

clause of s. 293, then the 3,d limb of s. 294 would be very nearly superfluous. /I

His Lordship has further stated in the said judgment that

'7here is evidence also of a similar design in the 4th limb of s. 294; knowledge,

that an act is so imminently dangerous that it must in all probability cause

death or such bodily injury as is likely to cause death, is knowledge, not merely

of the likelihood of causing death, but of the high probability of causing death

9

f

~

!,

!

It

I

1!

IIi

I

or injury likely to cause death; so that many cases which fall within the third

clause of s. 293 will not be murder within the meaning of the 4th limb of s. 294."

It is the accepted principle that where there is doubt whether the degree of

knowledge reflected in the act is insufficient to convict the Accused Appellant

for the charge of murder, benefit of the doubt should be exercised in convicting

the offender for lesser culpability. Therefore, I do not think that this court shall

interfere with the verdict of the learned trial judge in convicting the Accused

Appellants for culpable homicide not amounting to murder.

The sec. 297 comprises two parts in respect of imposing a sentence; one is that

in a situation where the offence is committed with the intention, sentence

could be one extending up to 20 years imprisonment; the other is that in a case

where offense is committed with the knowledge, but without intention,

sentence shall extend only up to 10 years.

Rex v. Punchiappuhamy (35 CLW 101) was a case where '7he jury, in returning

a verdict of culpable homicide not amounting to murder, stated that "they

found the accused inflicted an injury which was likely to cause death without a

murderous intention". The trial Judge passed a sentence of twelve years

rigorous imprisonment".

10

· .

In that case it was held by soertsl, SPJ "That where there was doubt whether

the jury appreciated the real distinction between intention that the act was

likely to cause death and knowledge that the act was likely to cause death, the

accused was entitled to the benefit of the doubt".

In this case as the learned trial judge has convicted the Accused Appellants

under latter part of the Sec. 297 he has sentenced them for seven years

rigorous imprisonment. Therefore, the opinion of this court is that no

interference shall be made with the sentence too imposed by the learned trial

judge.

Therefore, we affirm the conviction and the sentence of the trial court and

dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed. c ---JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

H.N.J. PERERA J

I agree

JUDGE 0

11