==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A.No.1244/98 D.C.Galle No.9582/P

M. Suraweera Mihiripanna, Thalape.

Petitioner

Vs.

W. Kumarasinghe Alias Samarasinghe Mihiripanna, Thalape.

Respondent

C.A.No.1244/98

Before

Counsel

Argued and

Decided on

K. T .Chitrasiri,J.

D.C.Galle No.9582/P

K.T.Chitrasiri,J.

Dr.Sunil Cooray with C.Amaratunga for the

3rd Defendant-Appellant.

D.M.G.Dissanayake for the Plaintiff-Respondent.

Titus Pathmasiri for the 4A to 4D and 5th and 6th Defendant-Respondents.

26.06.2013.

Both Dr.Sunil Cooray and Mr. D.M.G.Dissanayake submit that their

clients namely the 3rd defendant-appellant and the plaintiff-respondent

respectively have come to a settlement of the dispute in this appeal on the

following terms:

1) Plaintiff-respondent concedes that the 3rd defendant-appellant is

entitled to 1 j 8 share of the entire corpus upon the deeds bearing

numbers 3997 and 5192 marked 3V1 and 3V2 in evidence.

1

2. The said 1/8 share of the land is to be allocated to the 3rd defendant-

appellant from the land that had been kept un-allotted and also from

the land allocated to the plaintiff-respondent.

3. Accordingly, the plaintiff-respondent and the 3rd defendant-appellant

agree to allocate 70 I 80 shares to the plaintiff and 10 I 80 shares to the

3rd defendant from the land sought to be partitioned.

Mr. Titus Pathmasiri who is appearing for the 4A to 4D defendant-

respondents and for the 5th and 6th defendant- respondents submits that

the plaintiff-respondent and the 3rd defendant -appellant cannot come to

such an agreement by allocating un-allotted shares to the 3rd defendant

at this stage resulting in making use of the land that should remain eo-

owned, without an acceptable basis to do so.

However, Mr. Dissanayake submits that the agreement between

the plaintiff and the 3rd Defendant to allocate un-allotted shares has

been arrived on the basis of the title derived from the two deeds bearing

Nos.3997 and 5192 referred to above. He further submits that those

deeds have not been considered at all by the learned Trial Judge and

therefore it is correct to allocate un-allotted shares to the 3rd defendant

on the basis of those two deeds. Having considered his submissions, I

am inclined to accept the contention of the learned Counsel for the

plain tiff-respondent.

2

Mr. Titus Pathmasiri further submits that there were several

original owners to this land and it has not been looked into by the

learned Trial Judge . Therefore he contends that the two parties cannot

come to any terms in order to settle the dispute.

It must be noted that 4A to 4D and 5th and 6th defendant-

respondents have not appealed against the judgment of the learned

District Judge delivered on 26.08.1998. Therefore, this Court is unable

to consider the way in which the title to the land had devolved at this

appeal stage. The only appellant who is the 3rd defendant, has not

challenged the decision as to the devolution of title and his appeal has

now been heard and is concluded.

In the circumstances, I am not inclined to disturb the settlement

between the 3rd defendant-appellant and the plaintiff-respondent on the

basis that:

( 1) the 3rd defendant has establish his title by producing the

deeds bearing Nos.3997 and 5192 in evidence to establish

title to the land that was kept un-allotted;

(2) no appeal has been preferred to challenge the manner in

which the devolution of title to the land had been

established by the 4A to 4D and 5th and 6th defendant-

respondents to consider their grievance as to the

devolution of title.

3

•

For the aforesaid reasons, claims of the 4A to 40 and 5th and

6th defendant-respondents are rejected.

In view of the aforesaid settlement arrived at between the

plaintiff-respondent and the 3rd defendant-appellant, allocation of

shares made in the judgment dated 26 I 8 I 1998 should be

amended. The learned District Judge is directed to amend the

allocation of shares accordingly. Subject to the above variations

the appeal is allowed.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

WC/-

4