==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Bimbirigodage Sujith Lal

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

C.A. 38/2006

H.C. Galle 2431/2003

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

P.R. Walgama J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDNET

Rienzy Arsakularatne P.c., with Namal Karunaratne

for the Accused-Appellant

Chethiya Gunasekera D.S.C. for the Complainant-Respondent

30.09.2014 & 01.10.2014

20.10.2014

1

II!l t !!

~ !

t I

II

f i I

f II

r ! t i

2

GOONERATNE J.

The Accused-Appellant was indicted for the murder of one

Udumalagala Gamage Punyawathie on or about 20.07.1997. He was convicted

and sentenced to death on 02.09.2006. It was the position, at the hearing of

this appeal that there is a failure to comply with an imperative statutory

requirement as per Section 195(ee) of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act. The

said section deals with duty of the Judge upon receipt of indictment to attend

to certain basic matters inclusive of ascertaining the jury option from the

Accused party. Learned President's Counsel as well as learned Deputy Solicitor

General indicated to correct that the journal entry and proceedings of

04.11.2004 clearly demonstrate that there is non-compliance with the said

subsection 195 (ee) of the Code. It is imperative to record what exactly was

the option of the Accused, as to whether he opts for a non-jury trial, and his

preference need to be recorded as stated by the Accused and not his counsel.

On this basis this court has no option but to set aside the conviction of

sentence and send the case back to the High Court for due compliance with

the said section and to commence a fresh trial (trial de nova).

j I

3

The learned President's Counsel along with the learned Deputy

Solicitor General drew the attention of this court to above. Notwithstanding

above, learned President's Counsel took a further step by addressing court and

pursuing his case on the footing that in the circumstances of this case, justice

to his client would be denied due to a long lapse of time if a fresh trial is to be

held, and it was his contention that the Accused-Appellant should be acquitted

and the appeal be allowed accordingly. To present the case in this way the

learned President's Counsel relied on several authorities. However the learned

Deputy Solicitor General submitted to this court that the appeal should not be

decided in the manner argued by the defence and that he would only agree to

have the case sent back for fresh trial. Learned Deputy Solicitor General

submitted that this was in fact a brutal murder and that justice demands that

the culpability or innocence of the Accused party need to be decided after a

fresh trial although the delays highlighted on behalf of the Accused-Appellant.

The procedural lapse that had occurred in this case was due to non-

compliance of a statutory requirement and the Accused-Appellant cannot be

held liable or responsible in this regard. The date of incident of murder was

20th July 1997. When this Judgment is to be delivered, no doubt there is a very

long lapse of time, of at least 17 years, from the date of incident. Further the

lI

Ii I

rtf t

I I

t II

r

f

I.

4

Accused was convicted for a capital punishment and was sentenced on

02.09.2006. On that account the Accused-Appellant had been in prison

custody for well over 8 years and continues to be incarcerated. The question is

whether the ends of justice would be met in these circumstances.

I have been invited by learned counsel on either side to several

authorities which demonstrate that the Accused party should not be tried for

the second time due to delays and as argued by learned Deputy Solicitor

General that due to the serious nature of the case in hand decision to allow

the appeal would be an injustice caused to the victims party and society, in

general. Learned Deputy Solicitor General also submitted that a decision in this

case need to be considered after examining the facts of this case.

The following decided cases are considered and guides me to a very

great extent.

In Peter Singho Vs. Werapitiya held:

At pgs. 157/158 ...

I have anxiously considered whether I should send the case back for re-trial before another

Magistrate. The charges against the accused are of a serious nature and it may be that,

upon the relevant and admissible evidence, his conviction would have been justified. Btu we

are here concerned with offences alleged to have been committed over four years ago, and

it does not seem to me just to call upon him to defend himself a second time after such an

unconscionable lapse of time. I, therefore, set aside the convictions and acquit the accused.

I ! !I

f I ! I l,I

r

I

f f ( I

I I

1

5

Seenithamby v. Jansz 47 NLR 496

Judicial notice will not be taken that a "Food Control Guard" is a public servant within

the meaning of section 183 of the Penal Code or that he was duly appointed under

Regulation 6 of the Defence (Purchase of Foodstuffs) Regulations, 1942

The Court of Appeal will not order a new trial where the proceedings are so

irregular that the Court by according to a request for a new trial will merely encourage

slackness, negligence and inexactitude on the part of prosecutions.

At pg. 499 ...

I have been asked to send back the case as against the first to the sixth accused on count 2

for a new trial. I do not think I shall be justified in so doing. To accede to such a request will

merely encourage slackness, negligence and inexactitude on the part of prosecutors.

(Mendis v. Kaithan Appu; Rosemalecocq v. Kaluwa).

The Queen vs. Jayasighe 69 NLR at 328 ..

It is always necessary to bear in mind that the power given to a trial Judge to express

opinions on questions of fact must be used cautiously, more so in respect of the

uncorroborated evidence of an accomplice. Although at the commencement of the

summing-up the learned Commissioner made some preliminary observations which were

extremely appropriate to a case of this nature, and which correctly directed the Jury on

their proper function as Judges of fat, we cannot escape the feeling that the total effect of

his later strong expressions of opinion obliterated the good effect of the preliminary

observations. I

~ I ! f I I

6

Finally, we quote the following words from that judgment as they express our view of the

learned Commissioner's summing-up: liThe summing-up as a whole cannot be accepted as a

fair presentation of the case to the jury. A fair presentation is essential to a fair trial by jury.

The appellant(s) (have) thus been deprived of the substance of a fair trial."

For these reasons we allow the appeals and quash the conviction of the appellants. We

have considered whether we should order a new trial in this case. We do not take that

course, because there has been already a lapse of over three years since the commission of

the offences, and because of our own view of the unreliable nature of the accomplice's

evidence on which alone the prosecution rests.

We accordingly direct that a judgment of acquittal be entered.

Ahamed Lebbe Noor Mohamed & others Vs. Republic of Sri Lanka CA 158-

159/2002

Thus, in view of inadequate, unconvincing, evidence of the prosecution case, the counsel for

the accused-appellants urged Court to acquit all the accuse-appellants.

Thus only issue to be decided, in this case, is whether it should be sent back for re-trial (trial

de-novo) or not, on the facts and circumstances mentioned above. Section 335(2) states as

follows: "In an appeal from conviction by a Judge of the High Court at a trial without a jury

the Court of Appeal may:-

(a) Reverse the verdict and sentence and acquit or discharge the accused or order him to

be re-tried; or

(b) Alter the verdict maintaining the sentence or without altering the verdict increase or

reduce the amount of the sentence or the nature thereof or substitute a conviction for a

different offence of which the accused person could have been found guilty on the

I

i I ! I II I II I

7

indictment and pass such sentence as may be warranted by law in substitution for the

sentence passed."

C.A 146/2010

The offences in this case is alleged to have been committed on 10/10/2005. Trial

commenced on 17/01/2008 and was concluded on 01/04/2010. The accused-appellant was

sentenced on 26/04/2010. Both counsel admit the accused-appellant has not been released

on bail after his conviction. The accused-appellant has been incarcerated for a period of

over 3 l'2 years. When we consider all these matters, we feel that it is unreasonable to order

a retrial. Considering all these matters. We set aside the conviction and the sentence and

acquit the accused-appellant.

I have also considered the case reported in CA. No. 128-130/91

which was sent back for re-trail in a murder case.

In a case such as this, where all the offences of murder appears to have been committed in

one transaction, and the prosecution has chosen to charge only some of the accused in

respect of a particular murder, it is imperative that the learned trial Judge should have

directed the jury adequately to consider whether each of the accused entertained a

common murderous intention, in respect of each of the murders, the respective accused

are charged with. The failure to give such a direction in our view is a non-direction, which

amounted to a misdirection. The learned Counsel for the Accused-Appellants also pointed

out that the directions given on the burden of proof are also inaccurate. In the

circumstances, we are of the view that, it is unreasonable to allow the verdict of the jury to

stand.

I

i f I f ! ! f

8

Accordingly we set aside the verdict of the jury and the sentences. We order that are-trail

should be held in this case, as soon as possible, since these offences have been committed

in April 1982.

This is a case of circumstantial evidence. Material available suggests

that the Accused-Appellant was interested in witness No.1 the daughter of the

deceased who was about 16 years old and studying for the G.C.E. (O/L)

Examination. The exam was due to be held the day after the incident and she

was studying in her room at about 7.00 p.m. At that time only her mother was

in the house. The father/sister and brother had gone on a trip to

Anuradhapura and Polonnaruwa.

The grand-father who was also a member of the household was not

available at the time of the incident. The witness heard a noise and the front

door being opened. She saw the Accused entering the house and had come

near the room when the witness was studying and was looking at her.

Thereafter he had gone to the kitchen and heard an exchange of words

between the deceased mother and Accused and later saw Accused running

away from the scene of the crime. She went to see the mother who with

difficulty uttered the words she was stabbed by the Accused.

r!

9

When witness No.1 the daughter gave evidence she was 23 years old

and was married with a child. Incident occurred when she was about 16 years

old on 20

th July 1997. As at the date of delivering of this Judgment over 17

years would have lapsed. Accused is held in prisons custody for the last eight

years. Witness No.1 had no intention according to the material available to

have any contact with the Accused although he came after her without

success. It appears that his acts and conduct demonstrate that, the Accused at

any cost was attempting to get friendly with the girl, which seems to have

been resisted.

A long delay to finally conclude the matter is a relevant factor to be

taken into consideration. The conviction and sentence may be so deserving.

But court cannot forget the fact that when a fresh trial is ordered by the

Appellate Court the Accused is tried for the second time, and the process has

to be undertaken all over again. The second trial if at all would be after a long

lapse of time of over 17 years and after the Accused by law was incarcerated

and spent 8 years in prison custody. One cannot forget the fact that all this

happened due to no fault of the Accused party but for a procedural

irregularity in the Administration of Justice itself. Good part of the blame goes

to the system and not the Accused who is called upon to be tried once more.

10

A fair trial is a worldwide recognized concept to an Accused and could never

be denied, in our country.

In this instance long delay would result in serious consequences and

disorganization to the Accused as well as the prosecution party and witnesses.

My views as above would apply to the case in hand, and I should not be

understood or misunderstood to state that this is the rule. This is a decision to

be taken, having regard to all the circumstances and consequences, and such

decision can be taken only on a case by case basis. In all the above facts and

circumstances we set aside the conviction and sentence, and acquit the

Accused-Appella nt.

Accused Acquitted.

Appeal allowed.

~

:Y (v->~ ."~

DGE OF THE COURT Fa APPEAL

P.R. Walgama J.

I agree.

,.f . ,f". /J1/.djU~

JUDGE OF THE C~~T Fa APPEAL ~

II I! f I

f f ,

~

~ I[ I,

1 ! t I