==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for Mandates

in the nature of Writs of Certiorari and

Prohibition, under and in terms of Article

140 of the Constitution.

*******

t.A. (Writ) Application No.843/2009

1

1. Aranxa Software Private Ltd,

(Firnarly Limewise Counsulting

(Pvt) Limited)

Level 2, No. 48, Nawam Mw

Colombo 02.

2. Naresh Mohantissa Ediriwira

Managing Director,

Aranxa Software Private Ltd

Level 02, No. 48, Nawam Mw

Colombo 02.

PETITIONER

Vs

1. Commissioner General of Labour

Department of Labour,

Colombo 05.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

2

2. H.P. Jinadasa

Assistant Commissioner of Labour

Department of Labour,

Colombo 05.

3. Kapila Sanjaya Kodagoda

Director -Eyepax IT Consulting

Private Limited,

No. 66, Norris Canal Road,

Colombo 10.

RESPONDENTS

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

: Chrishmal Warnasuriya with

Wardani Karunarathne and

Sonali Wanigabaduge Instructed

by M.M.lynullah for the Petitioner.

Yuresha Fernando SSC for the 1 st

and 2nd Respondents.

Jacob Joseph with Nipuni

Amarasinghe for the 3rd

Respondent.

: 2th August, 2014

: 02nd December, 2014

Oeepali Wijesundera J.

Third respondent was employed by the petitioner Company from

01/12/1999 to 31/12/2005 until he voluntarily resigned. By letter dated

01/12/2005 marked as P6 and 2R1 by both parties, the 3rd respondent

has given notice to the petitioner company on 06/07/2006. The 3

rd

respondent made an application to the 1 st respondent alleging that

gratuity and salary for two months have been unlawfully detained by the

petitioner company although several requests were made by him for

payment. Subsequently an inquiry was held and the recommendation of

the inquiry officer was given. The 1st respondent acting under Sec. 50

(c) (2) of Shop and Office Employees Act No.44 of 1985 has issued a

certificate which is marked as P15 dated 22/07/2008 which stated that

an amount of Rs. 184,0001= was due to the 3rd respondent from the

petitioners.

The petitioners have filed the instant application on 03/12/2009 to

invoke the writ jurisdiction of this court to quash the said order marked

as P15. The petitioners stated that there were no money due to the 3rd

respondent as everything had been fully settled.

The petitioner's learned counsel stated that the 3rd respondent

while been employed by the petitioner company acting against the

3

interest of the company, secured projects and principal clients

independently and caused the petitioner company substantial damage.

Petitioners stated that when the 3rt! respondent left the petitioner

company the third respondent and the petitioner company have agreed

to settle what was outstanding to the 3rd respondent and the petitioner

company had set off a laptop computer to the 3rd respondent which he

has accepted in lieu of his gratuity payment as shown in P5. This

document is a computer print out of an email.

The petitioners counsel submitted that there is nothing due or

outstanding to the 3rd respondent from the petitioners and if the 1st

respondent were to proceed to recover the money the 3rd respondent

would become unduly enriched with money already settled to him. The

action filed before the Magistrate to recover the money from the

petitioners is unlawful and incorrect due to the proper procedure not

being complied with. He further submitted that the 1st respondent is

required to satisfy that there is a failure to pay on the part of the

employer and recovery of the sum of money is impractical or

inexpedient before filing an action to recover money through the

Magistrates' Court under Sec. 50 (c) (a) of the Act, and therefore the 1st

respondent had erred in law and acted ultra vires. For this argument he

cited the judgments in Jewel Arts Ltd Vs The Land Acquire officer

and two others SC Minister of 2810112008 and Lanka Multi Moulds

4

(pvt) Ltd Vs Commissioner of Labour 2001 3 SLR 305, Lanka Multi

Moulds (pvt) ltd Vs Wimalasena 2003 1 SLR 152.

The council for petitioners stated that the 1 st and 2nd respondents

have erroneously filed a charge sheet against the 2nd respondent in the

Magistrates' Court as the P15 certificate is issued only against the 1st

petitioner company, and that the certificate does not have the 2nd

petitioner as an accused as required by law.

Citing the judgments in Kegal/e Plantations Ltd Vs Silva and

others 1996 2 SLR 184 said the petitioners were never given a fair

hearing and that the 1 st respondent should give reasons for its decision.

This judgment is not at all relevant to the instant case.

The learned Senior State Council for the respondents stated that

there is unexplained delay in filing this application. Citing the judgments

in Hulangamuwa Vs Siriwardena 1986 1 SLR 275 Sisomenike Vs

C.R.De Alwis 1982 1 SLR 368, Hopman and Other Vs Ministery of

Lands and Land Development and others 94 SLR 240. The

respondents stated that the petitioner's unexplained delay significantly

impacts on the rights of the 3rd respondent.

5

The respondent's council further submitted that under Sec. 50 (c)

(2) of the said Act the issuance of the certificate for recovery of money

from employers in default is a final step prior to actual recovery through

the intervention of court. The certificate P15 was issued four months

after the findings of the inquiry officer.

The Learned Senior State Council further submitted that the

petitioner have failed to add the person described as Syard Bos who is

alleged to have entered into a contract of service with the 3rd respondent

as a necessary party to this action. The respondents cited the

judgments in Hettiarachchi Vs Senaratne and others S.C. app 780199

and Alles Vs Secretary, Ministry of Labour and others SC 387 Al96

in support of this argument. At the inquiry the petitioner's representative

had admitted the salary entitlement of the 3rd respondent which had to

be paid by a different party. The respondents further submitted that the

mere fact that the petitioners admitting the salary entitlement of the 3rd

respondent creates liability for the recovery of the same through the

intervention of the 1 st respondent.

Respondents stated in terms of Sec 19 of the said Act there is a

statutory duty caste on the employer for the payment of re-numeration

and that non payment of salaries due to the 3rd respondent by the

6

Petitioner Company is in breach of the law and has violated its statutory

obligations.

Sec. 50 (c) (2) and (3) of the Shop and Office Employees Act

(as amended) states;

50 (c) (2) Where an employer makes default in the

payment of any sum which he is liable to pay as

remuneration under subsection (1) and the

Commissioner is of opinion that it is

impracticable or inexpedient to recover that sum

under any other provision of this Act, then, he

may issue a certificate containing particulars of

the sum so due and the name and place of

residence of the defaulting employer to the

Magistrate having jurisdiction in the division in

which such place is situated. The Magistrate shall

thereupon summon such employer before him to

show cause why further proceedings for the

recovery of the sum due should not be taken

against him and in default of sufficient cause

being shown the sum in default shall be deemed

7

'.

\

50 (c) (3)

to be a fine imposed on such employer by such

Magistrate, and shall be recovered accordingly.

Every sum so recovered shall be paid to the

Commissioner.

The correctness of any statement in a

certificate issued by the Commissioner for the

purpose of this section shall not be called in

question or examined by the court in any

proceeding under this section, and accordingly

nothing in this section shall authorize the court to

consider or decide the correctness of any

statement in such certificate and the

Commissioner's certificate shall be sufficient

evidence that the amount due under subsection

(1) from the defaulting employer has been duly

calculated and that such amount is in default.

Therefore the petitioner's argument that the 1 st and 2nd

respondents have acted ultra vires and erred in law fails as it is very

clearly stated in the Act that the 1 st and 2nd respondents had powers

8

,

under the said act to take steps to recover the money due from the

petitioners.

The petitioners tried to mislead court by stating in his submission

that there is ample evidence in P16 that the 3rd respondent's salary was

paid in full. On perusal of the said document marked P16 it is quite clear

he has been paid only up to October 2005. A petitioner should come to

court with clear hands.

The document the petitioner seeking to quash marked as P15 is

dated 22/07/2008. The instant application has been made on

13/12/2009 nearly one and a half years later. There is undue and

unexplained delay by the petitioners as stated by the respondents.

The appellants have failed to give an explanation for their conduct

and the delay in making their application to this court and hence this

court can not be faulted for exercising its discretion against the issue of

writ therefore I dismiss this application with costs fixed at Rs. 25,0001=.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

9