==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL

OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

N. Thilakaratna No.4, Pragathi Mawatha, Borelesgamuwa

Petitioner-Appellant

Vs

Withanage Don Somaratne

73, Kesbewa Road, Borelesgamuwa

Deceased 2 nd Respondent-Respondent

S.Srimathi Dias Vi than age No.73, Kesbewa Road, Borelesgamuwa Substituted 2 nd Respondent-Respondent C.A.No.260f96 (F) D.C.MT.LAVINIA CASE NO.478fT

BEFORE

COUNSEL

DECIDED ON

W.Dona Ariyawathie

No.14, Kesbewa Road, Boralesgamuwa

W.Dona Siriywathie

No.2j 16, Kesbewa Road, Borelesgamuwa

1 st and 3 rd Respondent-Respondents

K. T.CHITRASIRI, J

Ms.J .R.Rajapakse for the Petitioner-Appellant.

Gamini Marapane p.e.with Keerthi Sri Gunawardane, Navin Marapana and Harshula Seneviratne for the substituted 2nd Respondent-Respondent

04.03.2014

1

t ( I I I I t

\ I l " III t 1

CHITRASIRI, J.

Parties to the appeal bearing No.CA 25/94 are same as the parties to this

appeal which bears the No.CA 260/96(F). Both these appeals are in relation to

issuance of Probates consequent upon the execution of Last Wills of the mother

of the parties to both these actions, namely Alice Perera. When the appeal

bearing No.25/94 was taken up in this Court on 05.09.2013, the following

minute has been recorded and it reads thus:-

"At this stage both Counsel admit that in the event the appeal

filed in the case bearing No.C.A.2S/94(F) is allowed then the

C.A.No.26/96(F) will have no effect and it will become

redundant. If it happens in such a way Ms. Rajapakse agrees

to withdraw the appeal in C.A.260/96(F)".

Today this Court made an order allowing the appeal bearing No.CA

25/98 by which the decision of the learned District Judge in the case 399/SPL

recalling the Probate, was set aside. Accordingly, the Probate issued in the

name of W.Don Somaratne, [2nd respondent-respondent in this appeal] in that

case 399/SPL was made valid. When a probate had been issued to administer

the properties of an estate of a deceased person is in existence, no other

Probate can be issued to administer the properties of the same estate. Hence,

this appeal which was filed to have the probate issued to administer the estate

of the deceased Alice Perera need not be looked into since it is also in relation

to an issue of probate to administer the properties contained in the same estate

2

t I t I 1

I I I

I

f J

of the late Alice Perera. In the circumstances, this appeal will have to be

dismissed without considering the):p.eri~s. __ _

Moreover, the minute made on 05.09.2013 in the appeal CA 25/98

referred to above, the learned Counsel for the Appellant has informed Court

that she would be withdrawing this appeal in the event the appeal in the case

bearing C.A.No.25/94(F) filed by the 2nd respondent-respondent namely

W.D.Somarathna, is allowed.

Having considered all those circumstances, this Court makes an order

dismissing this appeal filed to challenge the judgment dated 03.06.1996

wherein the learned District Judge refused to accept the execution of the Last

Will of Alice perera which was in the name of Nanawathie Thilakaratne who is

the appellant in this case. I make no order as to the costs of this appeal.

Appeal dismissed without costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

3