==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A.I4211997 (F) D.C. Colombo 13193/MR

Indrani Ranasinghe No. 80, "Senasuma" Sanchi Aratchiwatta, Colombo 12.

PLAINTIFF

Vs.

Anura Kartheris No. 1I8/D, Abeysekera Road, Kawdana, Dehiwela.

DEFENDANT

AND NOW

Indrani Ranasinghe No. 80, "Senasuma" Sanchi Aratchiwatta,

Colombo 12.

PLAINTIFF -RESPONDENT

Anura Kartheris No. 1I8/D, Abeysekera Road, Kawdana, Dehiwela.

DEFENDANT -APPELLANT

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERA TNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J.

D. Akurugoda for the Defendant-Appellant

Plaintiff-Respondent absent and unrepresented

20.06.2011

03.08.2011

2

This was an action filed in the District Court of Colombo to

recover a sum of Rs. 616,2001- and for legal interest on Rs. 390,0001- as

prayed for in sub-paragraph (a) of the prayer to the plaint. In paragraph 2 of

the plaint it is pleaded that the Defendant-Appellant had given a cheque to

the Plaintiff-Respondent in a sum ofRs. 390,0001- bearing No. IGE 069162

dated 1.10.1986 (marked 'er' annexed to the plaint) for valuable

consideration received by the Plaintiff. When the cheque was presented for

payment to the Maradana Branch of the People's Bank, same was returned

with the endorsement account closed. It is further pleaded that (paragraph 4

of plaint) having noticed Defendant about the dishonoured cheque, and

having demanded payment the Defendant-Respondent wrongfully failed and

3

neglected to pay the said amount or part thereof. Parties proceeded to trial on

three issues (though Defendant raised certain number of issues, it had been

disallowed by the District Judge) Judgment was delivered in favour of the

Plaintiff on 28.02.1997.

The appeal arIses from the said judgment. On the date of

hearing the Defendant-Respondent was absent and unrepresented. The

minute of 20.06.2011 contained in docket would indicate that proxy of

Defendant-Respondent was revoked by the registered Attorney but the

Respondent had not taken any further steps to participate at the hearing

before this court. The learned Counsel for the Appellant inter alia submitted

to this court the following:

(a) No reason given in the order of 17.7.96 by the learned District Judge for

rejecting Defendant's issues He relies in the case of Delpuchitra Vs.

Tamitagama. The Colombo Appellate law report 1996 Vol. III part I pg. 63.

(b) In the preliminary order dated 21.4.1996 court has considered document 'x' of

26.3.1987 submitted by plaintiff along with the written submissions, which

was not produced with the plaint or pleaded in the plaint. As such no

opportunity for Defendant-Appellant to cross-examine, Plaintiff on document

'x', or to comment on document 'x'.

(c) Date in letter 'x' altered.

(d) Cheque in question not issued by Defendant and he is not the signatory. Nor is

he the account holder. As such not liable.

4

The only three issues were considered by court and had to be

answered by court. Issue No. 1 deals with valuable consideration for which a

cheque had been issued by Defendant. Then issue No.2 is to the effect that

the cheque had been dishonourd. Issue No.3 is more or less a consequential

issue praying for relief.

The evidence led on behalf of the Plaintiff is very brief.

Evidence in chief is as follows:

(i) Action filed on a cheque (a?;. 1)

(ii) Cheque issued by defendant and presented to Bank for payment, did not

receive money from Bank

(iii) Cheque not honoured and endorsement on the cheque state 'account closed'

with the date 03.02.1987.

(iv) The amount in cheque should be paid by Defendant.

The cross-examination of Plaintiff seems to explain that the cheque

was signed by Defendant and given to Plaintiff on the same day it was

written (01.08.1986). This court observes that even the cross-examination

had been only on very limited matters. However there seems to be an

absence of material to suggest that a party had given a promise or perform

an act or some detriment suffered by a party receiving a promise. On what

promise, performance of act or detriment suffered by party is in evidence?

5

In brief the Bank witness state the cheque in question was

transacted with the Maradana People's Bank and presented on 03.02.1987.

Ale No. 1283 and account closed on 20.02.1986, about 8 months prior to the

date of cheque. The account holder was one Abeygoda Liyanarachchi

Dayananda Nissanka Karathelis of 879, Etul Kotte. The witness cannot say

whether the Defendant Karathelis signed the cheque.

This court observes that the Defendant is not the account holder

of the cheque in question. The evidence of the Defendant confirm this fact

and suggest that it was Defendant's brother who was the account holder of

the cheque. On the side of the Defendant-Respondent there is a total denial

of Plaintiffs case i.e never gave a cehque to Plaintiff and denies any

transaction with Plaintiff or knowledge of Plaintiff.

At this point before I proceed to comment, on the judgment of

the learned District Judge I would prefer to summarize the law relating to

valuable consideration and or the meaning of consideration.

The English concept of consideration forms an essential part of

legal study in our country. It is a benefit received by a party who gives a

promise or performs an act, or some detriment suffered by a party who

. . receIves a promIse.

6

Charles worth's Mercantile Law - 12 Ed.pg. 36/37 ...

It may also be define as 'that which is actually given or accepted in return for a promise."

It was defined by the court in Currie v. Misa (1875) L.R. 10 Ex. 153 as "some right,

interest, profit or benefit accruing to one party, or some forbearance, detriment, loss, or

responsibility given, suffered or undertaken by the other," but to this definition there

should be added that the benefit accruing or the detriment sustained was in return for a

promise given or received.

Examples - (1) A receives £5 in return for which he promises to deliver goods to

B. Here, the money A receives is consideration for the promise he makes to deliver the

goods.

(2) C promises to deliver goods to D, and D promises to pay for the goods when

they are delivered. Here, the benefit C receives is D's promise to pay, and in return for it

he promises to deliver the goods.

(3) X lends a book to Y and Y promises to return it. Here, the advantage is

entirely on Y's side, but X suffers a detriment in parting with his book, and this is

consideration to support Y's promise to return it.

Consideration is some quid pro quo agreed upon showing that the promIse IS not

gratuitous. It may be described as any act forbearance or the promise thereof which is

lawful and is made done or forborne by one party to a contract in exchange for the

promise of the other party and is of value in the eye of the law. Where a grant is made in

pursuance of a contract the consideration for the grant is one of its essential terms. 21

N.L.R at 41. Past consideration is no consideration at all unless it was moved by a

previous request or unless it was rendered under such circumstances that a request is

implied. 21 N.L.R 410.

I have to examine the judgment as well as prior interim orders

made by the learned District Judge. The proceedings of 07.11.1994 shows

that issues were raised and issue No.4 on prescription was tried by way of

7

written submissions. The learned Trial Judge made order on issue No.4 by

order of 21.04.1995, disallowing the Defendant to raise issue No. 4 on

prescription. Conclusion to reject the issue was two fold by the learned Trial

Judge. Firstly as the answer does not reveal or plead that the Plaintiffs

action is prescribed the Judge's very correctly relying on the case of Brampy

Appuhamy Vs. Gunasekere 50 N.L.R 253 rejected the issue. In the said case

it was held:

Where the effect of the Prescription Ordinance is merely to limit the time within

which an action may be brought, the Court will not take the statute into account unless it

is expressly pleaded by way of defence.

However as regards the 2nd reason, the fault lies in this order,

though the decision to reject the issue was correct the fault lies by

considering document 'x' of 26.03.1987, which was submitted to court by

the Plaintiff along with the written submissions. This was done to

demonstrate probably to take the case out of prescription and bring it within

Section 12 of the Prescription Ordinance. Document 'x' was never pleaded

or averred in the plaint. At the trial stage parties never agreed to submit

document 'x'. It was introduced with the written submission. Therefore the

Defendant never had an opportunity to challenge document 'x' or comment

8

on same. However the trial Judge has taken and considered document 'x'

also to shut out issue No.4. In a way this amount to a breach of the rules of

natural justice. Defendant-Appellant being denied the right to examine and

cross examine or comment on document 'x'. No opportunity for Defendant

to review document 'x', at an earlier stage of the suit.

On perusing the proceedings I find that further trial was re-fixed

for 17.7.1996. On that date the Defendant-Respondent raised 5 additional

issues but court disallowed all 5 issues. District Judge merely state without

B)"c.okS) oo®". I am of the view that the trial Court Judge should give reason

if issues are rejected although it is the duty of court to frame issues. One of

the issues suggested by the Defendant was an issue connecting letter 'x'.

Defendant's point of view was that latter 'x' was written on duress. If the

Trial Judge was of the view that document 'x' and other issues (although the

Judge considered 'x' in the order of 24.04.1995) do not go to the root of the

action, explanation or reason for such rejection would be material. The

rational for such view is dealt in the case of Delpachitra v. Tamitagama. The

Colombo Appellate Law Reports (1986) C.A.L.R - Vol III - Part I.

Two applications for Revision and Leave to Appeal arose from an order by the

District Court refusing to permit three additional issues to be framed in the trial. It was

agreed that one order should dispose of both applications.

9

The District Judge had disallowed an attempt by the defence during the course of

the trial to frame three additional issues based on illegality which had not been pleaded.

The Court refused to allow additional issues to be raised no reasons being given but

stating that reasons for refusal will be delivered along with the judgment in the case. It is

from this order that these applications were made.

Held-

The record shows the importance placed by the defence on the contention of

illegality. In these circumstances it is singularly inappropriate and unsatisfactory for the

judge to state that the issues are disallowed and that reasons for it would be given along

with the judgment as it would be too late for the Defendant to seek Leave to Appeal from

that order. The questions of whether the issues alter the scope of the action and whether

the transaction ha~ been illegal and thus deprives the Plaintiffs of any relief in a Court of

law cannot be dismissed summarily without reasons. Once illegality has been brought to

the notice of COUli, the Court must permit such an issue and determine it.

I f one considers the above matters and the initial orders made

by the district Judge the proper procedure would have been for the party

concerned to move court by way of leave to appeal at an earlier stage of the

District Court case. In any event such failure to move for leave to

appeal/revision cannot offend Appellant's right of Appeal. Nor would the

Appellant be prevented from testing it's legality in the final appeal.

Fernando vs. Fernando (1920) 8 CWR 43 ...

It is a well established rule that even if an interlocutory appeal is not taken against

an incidental decision, its legality can be canvassed in a final appeal.

10

Dicta in Fernando's case followed in C.A L.A 152/2003 & D.C

Colombo 19894/L (Ganesh Rasakulasuriar Vs. Earl's Court) Pvt. Ltd.

Minute of 14.01.2004.

On perusing the judgment I find at folios 84 & 85 of same that

once again the Trial Judge considers document 'x', and state about cheque

PI that no explanation had been given by the Defendant-Appellant as to how

the cheque in question which the account holder was his brother came to be

handed over to the Plaintiff. This is not a sound view to be expressed in

circumstances where there is a total denial of any transaction by the

Defendant-Appellant. Trial Judge has referred to the aspect of duress

relating to document 'x' and observes that duress aspect has not been

explained by the Defendant in his answer and not suggested in cross

examination of Plaintiff or in the evidence in chief of Defendant. Usually

Appellate Court need not interfere in factual matters, but in this instance I

see no cogent reason for the Trial Judge to consider document 'x' and the

above material as one cannot conclude that based on document 'x' which

was not pleaded by Plaintiff or properly led in evidence could be considered

to arrive at conclusions unfavourable to Defendant-Appellant. Merely

because the Plaintiff though it fit to introduce a document not referred to in

11

his pleadings and without proper notice to the opposing party, court should

be more cautious not to act upon same and arrive at conclusions. Court

should only rely on documents properly led in evidence or admitted at the

trial.

I am mindful of the fact that court exercising Appellate powers

ought to be slow to interfere with the discretion of the original court on facts.

In this instance I am compelled to interfere with the conclusions arrived at

by the Trial Judge as it is apparent to this court of patent and or obvious

errors are committed by the Trial Court Judge.

The other glaring error is the reference made to the letter of

demand by the Trial Judge. In the case in hand no letter of demand was

produced by way of evidence, but in evidence reference had been made to

the receipt of the letter of demand and Defendant's failure to reply or deny.

Why was the letter of demand not produced in evidence with at least notice

to the other party as required by the Evidence Ordinance? In the absence of

the letter of demand itself being produced at the trial, there is no clue as to

the nature of the transaction between the parties. What was the real

agreement between the Plaintiff and Defendant? How can court come to a

conclusion that this was a commercial or a business transaction. In England

12

and Sri Lanka no doubt view has been expressed that in business maters in

certain circumstances, the failure to reply to a letter amount an admission

made therein. Vide Weideman vs. Walpola (1891) 2 QB 534· ,

Saravanamuthu vs. De Mel 49 N.L.R 529. This principal cannot be applied

or extended to the facts of the case in hand, in the absence of evidence to

explain the transaction and on failure to produce the letter of demand.

Apart from above I find that the learned District Judge has

considered the following irrelevant matters.

(a) Transaction for Rs. 15,0001= in letter P2 - How can one conclude this transaction

to be extend to the case in hand, which is alleged to be a cheque transaction.

(b) Transactions of Plaintiffs husband with Defendant. On this alone can one

conclude that Defendant was well known to Plaintiff and alleged about the very

unclear required proof suggested in issue No. 1 raised in this case.

(c) Defendant's ancestral house being mortgage for Rs. 60,0001= by Defendant's

mother ~o Plaintiffs husband.- The nexus between Plaintiff and Defendant

cannot be inferred merely because of relationship.

When I consider the totality of the judgment and the very brief

evidence led at the trial which does not suggest or demonstrate the

agreement parties had with each other, and absence of material to support

and prove acceptable valuable consideration in a contract, I am of the view

that the District Judge was in error and had been misdirected in both fact and

in law. What was actually given or accepted in return for a promise? What is

13

the right, interest, profit or benefit that accrued to one party and what was

the loss or responsibility suffered by the other party? There is absolutely no

material to suggest any of the ingredients mentioned above. It is no answer

to merely state that this is an action based on a cheque. If that be so the

available procedure under Chapter 53 of the Civil Procedure Code should

have been followed.

In all the above circumstances I set aside the judgment of the

District Court and allow this appeal with costs.

Appeal allowed.