==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of a petition of appeal in

terms of section 331 (1) of the Code of

Criminal Procedure Act No 15 of 1979 in

the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

Lanka.

C.A.No.21/12 Hon. Attorney General

H.C. Puttalam 75/02 Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

Complainant

Vs.

Andi Budugae Derik Niroshan Fernando,

Paththayama,

Madurankuliya.

Accused

1

And

Andi Budugae Derik Niroshan Fernando,

Paththayama,

Madurankuliya.

Accused - Appellant

Vs

Attorney General,

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

Complainant - Respondent

BEFORE P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J

W.M.M.M. GUNARATNE, J

ROHINI WALGAMA, J

COUNSEL Dulindra Weerasuriya P. C with

Ruvindu Walikala for the Accused

Appellant.

2

Chethiya Goonesekara D.S.G for

the Respondent.

ARGUEDON 11.05.2015, 11.06.2015

DECIDEDON 16.07.2015

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J

Sriya SumuduKumari was nine years in 1999. She was living with her mother,

step father and two brothers. Her step father was Derik Niroshan. Mary

Jasintha Fernando was her mother's mother, whom Sumudu Kumari called

Mahamma. One day Jasintha came to know that Sumudu Kumari and Derik

3

Niroshan had been seen coming out a room in their house. Suspecting that

Oerik Niroshan committed something wrong to Sumudu Kumari, Jasintha had

made a complaint to the police. In investigating the said complaint, police

recorded a statement from Sumudu Kumari and produced her to a Judicial

Medical Officer for a medical examination. The Judicial Medical Officer has

examined her on 29.09.1999.

As the short history given by the patient, namely, Sriya Sumudu Kumari,

Judicial Medical Officer has stated its history of a rape by a relative brother,

namely, Indika. The incident had taken place about 5 days prior to the date of

medical examination. Judicial Medical Officer had observed reddish, swollen

vulva and hymen tear in five o'clock position on hymen wall. The Judicial

Medical Officer in her evidence has stated that Sumudu Kumari had not

mentioned any other name connected to the incident of rape. She has

expressed her opinion that the sexual intercourse had taken place about four

or five days prior to her examination.

Ardibaduge Oerik Niroshan Fernando was indicted for committing rape on

Sriya Sumudu Kumari Fernando who was under 16 years of age during the

period from 01.01.1999 to 25.09.1999 punishable under Sec.364 (2) e of the

Penal Code as amended by Act No 22 of 1995. He was convicted after trial and

sentenced to five years' rigorous imprisonment with a fine of Rs.25000/=

4

l II!I

e

I : ,

j I I

I

carrying a default sentence of six months imprisonment. He was ordered to

pay Rs. one hundred thousand (Rs. 100000/=) to the victim as compensation

carrying a default sentence of six months imprisonment. Being dissatisfied with

the conviction and the sentence, the Accused Appellant has preferred this

appeal to this court.

In the first instance it must be noted that the sentence passed by the learned

trial judge is, at first glance, illegal as the minimum sentence according to the

statute is 10 years rigorous imprisonment and the learned judge has not stated

under which legal basis that she reduced it to 5 years.

Sumudu Kumari in her evidence given at the trial has stated that her step

father Derik Niroshan raped her several times on several days. She states that

one day he took her to a boutique room next to their home and raped her.

After the said incident another day he did the same thing after taking her to a

jungle. According to her, another similar incident had taken place at a place

called Kivula. Once she has mentioned the first incident was seen by a brother

called Roshan. Sumudu Kumari says she did not divulge these incidents to

anyone because her step father asked her not to tell anyone.

The learned trial judge in her judgment states that when there is clear

evidence that 9 year old witness No.1 has been raped by the accused the

accused should have produced evidence in rebuttal but he has failed to submit

5

any defence in his dock statement. The 'clear evidence', mentioned there by

the trial judge is only the evidence of victim girl. There is no other iota of

evidence that corroborates the evidence of the victim.

The learned president's counsel who appeared for the Appellant contended

that corroboration of the evidence of the prosecutrix is essential unless the

evidence of the prosecutrix is so convincing to act upon without corroboration.

He has cited the following decided cases in support of his argument. Sunil Vs

AG1, King Vs Marthalis2, King Vs Ana Sheriee, The King Vs Bruke4, Sena Vs

Republic of Sri Lankas, S. Rajarathnam Vs Republic of Sri Lanka 6, Ajith Vs AG

7•

In Sunil Vs AG, it has been held that it is very dangerous to act on the

uncorroborated testimony of a woman victim of a sex offence, but her

evidence is convincing, such evidence could be acted on even in the absence of

corroboration. In the instant case the victim girl has given evidence when she

was 16 years old about the series of incidents she faced at the age of 9 years.

She has stated that the Accused Appellant inserted his male organ into her

female organ and had sex on several occasions.

Can't this evidence be considered to be convincing?

6

!fI t I

~ f III

,,

flr

Jtf

I

•

It could have been so considered, if not for the medical evidence which

contradicts the victim's evidence. Firstly, the victim girl has not mentioned a

word about any kind of sexual act which involves the Accused Appellant.

Secondly, the Medical Officer has observed that the physical signs that indicate

the committal of sexual intercourse had taken place 4,5 days prior to her

medical examination. The Medical Officer has not been questioned whether

any sign of a committal of sexual intercourse prior to the sexual intercourse

she has referred to in her medical report had been noticed.

The learned President's Counsel argues that the evidence of the prosecutrix

has created a reasonable doubt about her evidence leaving aside the fact that

it being a convincing evidence to act upon without corroboration.

The learned Deputy Solicitor General submitted that the Medical Officer who

had conducted the medical examination was an inexperienced one. Therefore,

any better medical opinion could not have been expected. It seems that the

Medical Officer has clearly expressed her opinion according to the evidence

that she had observed. On the other hand, the Medical Officer has not been

questioned about any previous incident other than the incident she has

mentioned in the report.

7

II Ift!IIi

III

II

I hold that it is unsafe to act upon uncorroborated evidence of a rape victim

when her evidence is inconsistent with the medical evidence. Accordingly, my

opinion is that there is no sufficient evidence in this case to convict the

Accused Appellant for the rape charge. Therefore, I set aside the conviction

and the sentence and acquit the Accused Appellant.

Appeal allowed.

W.M.M.M. GUNARA TNE, J

I agree

ROHINI WALGAMA, J

I agree

1. 1986 (1) SLR 230 2. 43NLR560 3. 42NLR 169 4. 43 NLR465 5. 2009 (1) SLR 48 6. 71(1) NLR 73

7. 2009 (1) SLR 23

~-~ ~~ JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

J' JC.

8