==== BLOCKS ==== 

CA/HCC/0259/2024

1 | P a g e

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an Appeal made under

Section 331(1) of the Code of Criminal

Procedure Act No.15 of 1979 read with

Article 138 of the Constitution of the

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

Lanka.

Court of Appeal No: Hettiarachchige Gamini Premalal

CA/HCC/0259/2024 Perera alias Ruwan

High Court of Puttalam

Case No: HC/151/2019

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

Vs.

The Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo-12

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDENT

BEFORE : P. Kumararatnam,J.

R.P.Hettiarachchi,J.

COUNSEL : Chamara Wannisekera with Isuri Cooray

for the Appellant.

Chrisanga Fernando, SC for the

Respondent.

CA/HCC/0259/2024

2 | P a g e

ARGUED ON : 11/03/2026

DECIDED ON : 23/06/2026

*******************

JUDGMENT

P. Kumararatnam, J.

The above-named Accused-Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the

Appellant) was indicted by the Attorney General in the High Court of

Puttalam for committing two counts of incest on his daughter namely

Hettiarachige Amila Sanjeevani between 01/01/2006 to 31/12/2006 an

offence punishable under Section 364(3) of the Penal Code as amended.

After the trial the Appellant was convicted for the second count and he was

sentenced to 19 years rigorous imprisonment with a fine of Rs.20,000/-. In

default of which 06 months simple imprisonment was imposed. The

Appellant was acquitted from the first count.

Being aggrieved by the aforesaid conviction and sentence, the Appellant

preferred this appeal to this court. The Learned Counsel for the Appellant

informed this court that the Appellant has given consent to argue this matter

in his absence. Also, at the time of argument the Appellant was connected

via the Zoom platform from prison.

CA/HCC/0259/2024

3 | P a g e

The Counsel for the Appellant placed the following grounds of appeal

for adjudication:

1. PW1 is not a credible witness.

2. The Learned High Court Judge has erred in not considering the dock

statement of the Appellant and the evidence of the defence witnesses.

PW1, the prosecutrix who encountered this unpleasant incident was in grade

12. The Appellant is her biological father. According to her, she is not quite

close to her father.

On the day of the first incident, when she was at home her father had

dragged her to a bed and committed rape on her. The prosecutrix had not

informed about this incident to her mother as she feared that the Appellant

would harm her mother.

The second incident had also happened similar to the first one when she sat

for her Ordinary Level Examination. She did not divulge this incident to

anybody due to fear. But she had written letters to her aunt. A friend namely

Kasun had delivered the letter to her aunt.

Her pregnancy was revealed when she was admitted to the hospital after

taking an overdose of Panadol. She had given her first statement at the

hospital but she did not come out with the truth due to the instigation of her

mother. At very first she had told the police and the JMO who examined her,

that an unknown person had committed rape on her while she was at home.

PW4 had recorded the first statement of the victim at the Kurunegala

Hospital. PW6, had recorded the 2nd and 3rd statements of the victim.

PW11, the JMO had examined the victim and submitted the Medico-Legal

Report. The report indicates that the victim was 8 weeks pregnant. The

observations in the medical report had revealed that the victim was subjected

to repeated vaginal intercourse.

CA/HCC/0259/2024

4 | P a g e

After the conclusion of the prosecution’s case, the Learned High Court Judge

had called for the defence. The Appellant had made a lengthy dock

statement, and had called two witnesses on his behalf and closed the case

for the defence.

In the first ground of appeal, the Appellant contended that the evidence given

by the prosecutrix is not credible.

The credibility of the evidence given by a rape victim would be of utmost

importance in criminal trials, as it would solely determine the conviction of

an accused, especially when no physical evidence would be available. The

Court would consider the consistency in testimonies, post assault behaviour

and the surrounding circumstances. Although a victim’s testimony alone can

be sufficient to convict, it is thoroughly analysed to detect any

“inconsistencies” or deviations from usual behaviours.

In sexual assault cases, the most important factor would be credibility which

includes personal characteristics, such as whether the victim is genuine and

trustworthy. Such perceptions of credibility would be influenced by

demeanour, for instance, the victim being calm and not argumentative

towards the defence. In such situations, memory and communication skills

would also play a major role, as the victim would be required to recall and

relate what happened. Credibility can also be assessed by considering the

consistency in the statements given by the victim at various points in time,

between the statements by the victim and witnesses, and in the victim’s post

assault behaviour.

In the case of Deepak Kumar Sahu Versus State of Chhattisgarh 2025

INSC 929 it was held:

“This Court observed that if the evidence of the victim does not suffer

from any basic infirmities and the factor of probability does not render

it unworthy evidence, the conviction could base solely on the evidence

CA/HCC/0259/2024

5 | P a g e

of the prosecutrix. It was further observed that as a general rule there

is no reason to insist on the corroboration accept in certain cases, it was

stated. The medical evidence may not be available in which

circumstance, solitary testimony of the prosecutrix could be sufficient to

base the conviction.”

In the case of Keshav v. State of Maharashtra (2025 INSC 604) it was held

that:

“The Court should be equally careful in protecting the accused from a

false implication. While applying the broad principle that an injured

witness, whose presence cannot be doubted, as she would ordinarily

not lie, still there is no presumption or any basis for assuming that the

statement of such a witness is always correct or without any

embellishments.”

In the case of Ajith v. Attorney-General, (2009) 1 SLR 23 it was held:

“If the prosecutrix in a rape case is not a reliable or believable witness,

the evidence seeking to corroborate her story cannot strengthen her

evidence. Court should seek corroborative evidence only if the

prosecutrix is a reliable witness.”

PW1 had admitted that she did not divulge the incident until she was

hospitalised. Although the victim initially stated that she was raped by an

unknown person, in her subsequent statements she came out with the true

story and gave evidence accordingly. Her first statement to police and the

history given to the JMO were totally influenced by her mother. Therefore,

she had implicated an unknown person.

But during the trial she had come out with the incident correctly after 15

years of the incident. Not divulging the true story at the very outset would

not affect the prosecution’s case, as the victim had given plausible reasons

as to why she said so at that time.

CA/HCC/0259/2024

6 | P a g e

The Learned Counsel for the Appellant strenuously argued that, although

the victim repeatedly told court that she was about to be taken for a DNA

test but her mother had not consented, the JMO had told court that the DNA

test cannot be done during the pregnancy. Therefore, the Counsel argues

that this inter se contradiction is a clear testament that she is fabricating a

story against her father.

In respect of this point, I am of the belief that the victim had not lied or

fabricated a story against her father, rather she had merely proceeded to

recall and state the facts according to her comprehension at that time, as a

child below the age of 16.

Further, the Learned High Court Judge has in fact at pages 237 and 248 of

the brief acknowledged that the victim’s evidence needs to be evaluated with

caution.

In this case, the prosecutrix was consistent in her evidence about the

happenings of the incident. She had vividly explained how she was raped by

the Appellant on two occasions. She had given evidence before the High

Court for more than 15 years after the incident.

The Learned High Court Judge has sufficiently given due consideration to

the infirmities in the evidence of PW1 and therefore, I conclude that the

Learned High Court Judge had not erred in law in evaluating her evidence

under the accepted principles.

In the second ground of appeal, the learned Counsel contended that the

Learned High Court Judge has erred in not considering the dock statement

of the Appellant and the evidence of defence witnesses.

A dock statement refers to an unsworn, statement free of cross examinations

made by an accused, and the Courts must consider such statements as

evidence. If it raises a reasonable doubt, the accused can be acquitted. It

would be considered alongside the prosecution’s case and the defence

evidence, although it would hold less weight than sworn testimony.

CA/HCC/0259/2024

7 | P a g e

In the case of Sarath Vs. Attorney General (2006) 3 Sri L.R. 96 it was held:

“There is no rule that a particular item/evidence should be considered first

in the judgment. There is no prescribed sequence in analyzing evidence.

The judgment analysed the entire evidence at the same time. Therefore the

fact of considering the dock statement at the beginning of the judgment

would not make any difference as the prosecution evidence was

considered at the same time.

One must bear in mind that when a dock statement is considered

anywhere in the judgment, the judge who heard the evidence is aware of

the prosecution case and would always consider the dock statement while

considering the prosecution story. One cannot consider the dock statement

in isolation.”

In the case of Mannar Mannan v. The Republic of Sri Lanka - [1990] LKSC

9; (1990) 1 Sri LR 280 (30 January 1990) it was held:

“In a trial on a charge of murder two eye-witnesses testified to seeing the

accused appellant fire one shot with a gun at the deceased at night. The

accused in a statement from the dock denied he was anywhere in the

vicinity of the shooting. The trial judge failed to direct the jury that it was

sufficient for the appellant to secure an acquittal if the statement from the

dock raised a reasonable doubt in regard to the allegation of the

prosecution that it was the appellant who shot the deceased.”

CA/HCC/0259/2024

8 | P a g e

In the case of Meegastennage Prince Gunawardena v. AG (SC Appeal

No. 42/2014 decided 7 November 2019) it was noted that:

“It is mandatory for the Judge to analyse the entire evidence before the

Court and to find whether the ingredients are proved beyond reasonable

doubt.”

The Learned High Court Judge in her judgment at pages 252-262 had

considered the defence evidence at length in her judgment. Therefore, it is

incorrect to say that the Learned High Court Judge had not correctly

considered the dock statement and the defence evidence in the judgment.

The Learned High Court Judge in the judgment had considered all the

evidence adduced by the prosecution and the defence and had given reasons

as to why she acted on the evidence adduced by the prosecution. She has

accurately analysed all the evidence presented by both parties with a correct

perspective and had arrived at the correct finding.

In this case the Appellant is the biological father of the victim. He is a father

of three children including the victim. The victim’s mother had passed away.

The defence had made mitigating submissions highlighting the family

situation of the Appellant.

Under Section 364(3) of the Penal Code, the minimum sentence is 15 years

and the maximum sentence is 20 years. The minimum sentence is

mandatory. As such, the sentence should start from 15 years and goes up to

20 years.

In this case the Learned High Court Judge had imposed a sentence of 19

years on the second count. I think imposing 19 years sentence is not

warranted in this case. As such, I set aside the 19 years rigorous

imprisonment imposed on the second count and replace it with 15 years

rigorous imprisonment.

CA/HCC/0259/2024

9 | P a g e

The fine and default sentence imposed will remain same.

I further order the sentence imposed to be operative from the date of

conviction namely 10/10/2024.

The appeal is, therefore, dismissed subject to the above variation of the

sentence.

The Registrar of this Court is directed to send this judgment to the High

Court of Puttalam along with the original case record.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

R. P. Hettiarachchi, J

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL