==== BLOCKS ==== 

~ i i \ 1 1 i I i I I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI

LANKA

Kankanam Arachchige Premadasa alias

Kamkanam Arachchige Premadasa.

Accused-appellant.

C.A.Appeal No. 49/09 with

CA.(PHC) APN No. 19/2011 (Rev) -Vs-

Republic of Sri Lanka.

High Court Hambantota No. 258/07

High Court Matara No. 137/08 Respondent

MC. Tissamaharama : BR 198/06

Before:

Counsel:

Sisira . J. de Abrew, J &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J

Chrishmal Warnasuriya with Dushantha Kularathne

for the Accused-Appellant in C.A.Appeal No. 49/09 and

the Accused-Appellant-Petitioner in CA.(PHC) APN No.

19/2011.

Dilan Ratnayake SSC for the Respondent.

1

1i

II

Argued &

Decided on: 17.09.2013.

Sisira. J. de Abrew, J

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted on his own plea of two

charges under section 298 of the Penal Code. He was sentenced to a term of 05

years Rigorous Imprisonment on the 1st count and to pay a fine of Rs. 2500/-

carrying a default sentence of 03 months Rigorous Imprisonment. The learned

High Court Judge imposed the same sentence on count No.2. Being aggrieved by

the said sentence the accused-appellant has appealed to this court. He has also

filed a Revision application. Learned counsel for the accused-appellant submitted

that although the accused-appellant was convicted on his own plea, he has never

instructed his Attorney-at-law to plead guilty but the Attorney-at-Law pleaded

guilty. I now consider whether the said submission is correct or not. According to

page 54 of the original record, the learned High Court Judge has read the

indictment to the accused-appellant. The accused-appellant has pleaded guilty to

2

both charges. The accused-appellant has filed an affidavit to strengthen the

argument advanced by learned counsel for the accused-appellant. But we find

even in the petition of appeal filed by the accused-appellant, the accused-

appellant does not take up the ground that had been advanced by the learned

counsel for the accused-appellant. When we consider the above material, we are

unable to agree with the submission made by the learned counsel for the

accused-appellant. We therefore reject it.

The accused-appellant is trying to contradict the High Court record.

Can he do that ? In finding an answer to this question, I am guided by the

judgment of Justice Canekeratne in Gunawardena vs Kelaart 48 NLR page 522-

wherein His Lordship held thus:-"The Supreme Court will not admit affidavits

which seek to contradict the record kept by the Magistrate". In Jayaweera Vs

Assistant Commissioner of Agrarian Services 1996(2) SLR page 70; His Lordship

Justice Jayasooriya held thus;-1/ There is a presumption that official and legal

acts are regularly and correctly performed. It is not open to the petitioner to file a

convenient and self-serving affidavit for the 1st time before the Court of Appeal

and thereby seek to contradict either a quasi judicial act or judicial act. If a

litigant wishes to contradict the record he must file necessary papers before the

3

court of first instance, initiate an inquiry before the court and thereafter raise the

matter before the Appellate Court so that the appellate Court would be in a

position on the material to make an adjudication on the issues with the benefit of

the order of that Cou rt."

Applying the principles laid down in the above judicial decisions, I

hold that a litigant is not entitled to impugn the correctness of a judicial record by

making a convenient statement before the court of Appeal. This view is also

supported by the judicial decision in the Officer-in-Charge of Amparai Vs

Bamunusinghe Arachchilage Jayasinghe C.A.Appeal No. 37/1988-CA (PHC) APN

No. 38/1998 decided on 08.09.1998. When I consider all these matters the fact

that he did not instruct the Attorney-at-Law to plead guilty but the Attorney-at-

Law pleaded guilty on his behalf cannot be accepted. Learned counsel for the

accused -appellant submitted that it was possible for the accused-appellant to

withdraw the plea of guilt tendered by him. Has the accused-appellant discharged

this function in the Original Court? The answer is No. The accused-appellant has

not made any application to the learned High Court Judge to withdraw his plea of

guilt.

4

I

J I

Next question that must be considered is whether the sentence

imposed by the learned High court Judge is excessive or not. Learned Counsel for

the accused-appellant submits that the sentence imposed by the learned High

Court Judge is excessive. I now advert to this question. The accused-appellant at

the very first opportunity without wasting time of Court pleaded guilty. He is a

Government Servant. The learned Trial Judge has considered all these matters

and has made a direction that both terms of imprisonment should run

concurrently. Learned counsel for the accused-appellant submitted that the two

victims in this case did not have riding licence and that their father S.

Sugathadasa has also admitted this fact in the civil case filed by him in

Tissamaharama High Court in case No. M/72s-Document marked Ps in the

Revision Application.

Considering all these matters we hold that the sentence imposed by

the learned High Court Judge is little excessive. We therefore set aside the 05

years rigorous Imprisonment imposed by the learned High court Judge and

sentence him to a term of 3 years Rigorous Imprisonment on the 1st count. We

impose the same punishment on the 2nd count.

5

1

\

ft,

We direct that both term of imprisonment should run concurrently.

The fines imposed by the learned High Court Judge remain unaltered. The

accused-appellant who is now on bail should submit his bail.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

P.W.D.C. Javathilaka, J

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Kpm/-

6

~

II! II

III

~ III

i

rI

~c

II !