==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL

OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

T. A. Mahinda Jayarathne

Uda Thammita, Ganemulla Kirindigalla Ibbagamuwa.

Accused-Petitioner C.A.[PHC] APN No.49/2014 HC.KURUNEGALA Vs CASE NO.151/2009 M.C.KURUNEGALA CASE NO.NS.14/077

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN

SUBMISSIONS

DECIDED ON

Hon. Attorney General Attorney General's Department Colombo 12

Complainant-Respondent

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J.

W.M.M.MALINIE GUNARATNE, J.

D.Kurruppu with Nimali Chandrasekera for the

Accused -Peti tioner

Dilan Ratnayake SSC for the Complainant-

Respondent

21.11.2014

15.12.2014 by the Accused-Petitioner

16.12.2014 by the Complainant-Respondent

26.02.2015

1

if

IIif,iII! tII! l

It

,

CHITRASIRI, J.

Accused-petitioner (hereinafter referred to as the accused) was indicted in

the High Court of Kurunegala under Section 296 of the Penal Code for committing

murder of Y.M.Ramani Dissanayake and under Section 300 of that Code for

attempting to commit murder on E.M.Loku Menike. When the matter was

proceeding before the learned High Judge of Kurunegala, prosecution moved to

mark the statement (P4) given by Loku Menike at the non-summary inquiry. Said

application had been made in terms of Section 33 of the Evidence Ordinance since

Lokumenike has passed away by then. (vide at page 97 in the appeal brief)

Learned Counsel for the accused objected to have the aforesaid statement of Loku

Menike admitted in evidence since no questions were put to her by the accused in

cross examination. Learned High Court Judge of Kurunegala having overruled the

objection by the accused made order permitting the prosecution to mark the said

statement of Loku Menike for the reason that the accused had the opportunity to

cross-examine Loku Menike at the non-summary inquiry though he has not made

use of it.

Being aggrieved by the aforesaid decision of the learned High Court Judge,

the accused filed this revision application and sought a direction on the learned

High Court Judge preventing the statement of Lokumenike being produced in

evidence under Section 33 of the Evidence Ordinance and accordingly to have the

impugned order set aside.

2

, I ! I

I I I I I i

I I

Aforesaid Section 33 of the Evidence Ordinance reads thus:

"Evidence given by a witness in a judicial proceeding, or before

any person authorized by law to take it, is relevant, for the

purpose of proving, in a subsequent judicial proceeding, or in a

later stage of the same judicial proceeding, the truth of the

facts which it states, when the witness is dead or cannot be

found, or is incapable of giving evidence, or is kept out of the

way by the adverse party, or if his presence cannot be obtained

without an amount of delay or expense which, under the

circumstances of the case, the court considers unreasonable:

Provided -

(a) that the proceeding was between the same parties

or their representatives in interest;

(b) that the adverse party in the first proceedings had

the right and opportunity to cross-examine;

(c) that the questions in issue were substantially the

same in the first as in the second proceeding."

The above provision of law allows to admit evidence given m judicial

proceedings as admissible for the purpose of proving the truth of the facts when

that witness is dead, provided the said evidence had been between the same

parties; and the accused had the right and the opportunity to cross-examine the

witness whose statement is to be admitted in evidence; and that the issue was

substantially the same in both the proceedings. Admittedly, both proceedings in

this matter had been between the same parties and the questions/issues in those

proceedings were substantially the same. Then the question arises whether the

accused had both the right and the opportunity to cross-examine the deceased

3

i I I I I

I

1

I I

I I I i I I ! I I

witness whose statement recorded in the earlier proceedings is to be marked in

evidence.

I will first look at the issue, as to the availability of the right of the

accused to cross-examine the witness. Therefore, it is necessary to consider

whether the accused in this case had the right in law to cross examine Loku

Menike at the non-summary inquiry held before the learned Magistrate. At the

commencement of the non-summary inquiry, learned Magistrate has stated that

he commenced the said inquiry under Section 146 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure Act No.15 of 1979. (vide at page 42 in the appeal brief) Such a

conclusion as to the applicable law implies that the learned Magistrate may not

have been aware of the significant change, namely taking away the right to cross

examine the witnesses at the non-summery inquiry that came into existence with

the enactment of the of Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions) Act No.15

of 2005. Otherwise he would have stated that he is resorting to the Code of

Criminal Procedure Act because the period of validity of the aforesaid Act No. 15 of

2005 has lapsed by then.

Section 6(3)(b) and 6(5)(b) of the aforesaid Act No.15 of 2005 have clearly

taken away the right to cross-examine the witnesses by the accused or by his

pleader at a non-summary inquiry.

Section 6(3) (b) of Act No.15 of 2005 reads thus:

"The Magistrate shall not permit any cross-examination of

the witness by the accused or his pleader, but the Magistrate may

put to the witness, any clarification required by the accused or

4

,,;?f

fI; t II

tt

II ,IIi ,,fi lI lIrI ! ! I11(! irtIi

,} i I, iI

~ III

~ ;

his pleader of any matter arising from the statement made by

the witness in the course of the investigation, or any additions

or alterations to his original statement if any, and may put to

the witness any clarification which the Magistrate himself may

require of any such matter. Every clarification so made shall be

recorded. "

(emphasis added)

Section 5 (b) of Act No.15 of 2005 reads thus:

"The Magistrate shall not permit any cross-

examination of the witness by the accused or his

pleader but the Magistrate may put to the witness, any

clarification required by the accused or his pleader of any

matter arising from the account given, or additions or

alterations made, by the witness or may put to the witness

any clarification that the Magistrate himself may require of

any such matter.

(emphasis added)

However, the aforesaid Act No.15 of 2005 was in existence only for a period

of two years from the date of its coming into operation namely from 31 st May

2005. Therefore, at the time Loku Menike gave evidence before the learned

Magistrate, the right to cross examine witnesses at a non-summery inquiry

ensured in the Code of Criminal Procedure Code No.15 of 1979 was not in

existence. Therefore, one may come up with a strong argument that the learned

Magistrate is correct when he decided to commence the non -summery proceedings

under Section 146 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act No.15 of 1979.

5

Indeed, it is the contention of the learned Senior State Counsel at the

argument stage of this appeal. He further submitted that the learned Magistrate

has also given the opportunity for the accused to cross-examine Loku Menike

since those proceedings had been conducted under the Code of Criminal

Procedure Act.

However, it is necessary to note that another Act was subsequently enacted '"

namely; The Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions) Act No.42 of 2007

whereby a provision similar to Section 6(3) (b) and 6(5) (b) of the Act No. 15 of

2005 have come into place with having retrospective effect. Accordingly, the.

provisions contained in the Act No. 42 Of 2007 was effective from 31 st may 2005

for a period of two years. Hence, it is clear that the Parliament by introducing

specific provision had clearly intended to take away the right to cross

examine the witnesses at a non-summery inquiry that included the matters

which came up within a period of two years commencing from 31 st may 2007. The

law referred to above is clearly seen in Section 7(1) of the Act No. 42 of 2007 and it

stipulates thus:

"The provisions of this Act shall be in operation for a period

of two years commencing from the thirty-first day of May, 2007."

The aforesaid Section 7(1) of the Act No.42 of 2007 clearly shows that the

other provisions of the Act are applicable to the proceedings held before the

learned Magistrate in this case as well. It is so, since the recording of the evidence

6

~

II !

f

fi f

I,II

t!I(IIfI ;

I I I ! I !

.~ l I

of Lokumenike has taken place on 29.06.2007 which fell within two years from

31.05.2007.

In the circumstances, I will now turn to look at the law that should prevail

when express provision is found to have retrospective effect of a particular

enactment. Maxwell on The Interpretation of Statutes [Twelfth Edition] explains

how it should be implemented.

Pending Actions -

In general, when the substantive law is altered during the

pendency of an action, the rights of the parties are decided

according to the law as it existed when the action was begun,

unless the new statute shows a clear intention to vary such

rights" [At pages 220 and 221J

Procedural Acts -

The presumption against retrospective construction has

no application to enactments which affect only the procedure

and practice of the courts. No person has a vested right in any

course of procedure, but only the right of prosecution or

defence in the manner prescribed for the time being, by or

for the court in which he sues, and if an Act of Parliament

alters that mode of procedure, he can only proceed

according to the altered mode. "Alterations in the form of

procedure are always retrospective, unless there is some good

reasons or other why they should not be". [At page 222J

[emphasis addedJ

Statute plainly retrospective -

The rule against retrospective operation is a presumption

only, and as such it "may be overcome, not only by express

7

Irff

I

t

~

II

IiIrt1!

I

fI,I

rII

,iII

;t I I I I I I I ! I i

•

words in the Act but also by circumstances sufficiently

strong to displace it". And this, like the presumption itself, is

in accord with the theoretical intention--oJ Parliament for

((allowing the general inexpediency of retrospective

legislation, it cannot be pronounced naturally or necessarily

unjust. There may be occasions and circumstances

involving the safety of the state, or even the conduct of

individual subjects, the justice of which, prospective laws

made for ordinary occasions and the usual exigencies of

society for want of prevision fail to meet, and in which the

execution of the law as it stood at the time may involve

practical public inconvenience and wrong". [At page 225J

When the law referred to above is implemented to the case at hand, it is clear

that the right of the adverse party to have an opportunity to cross-examine

as required by the proviso (b) in Section 33 of the Evidence Ordinance has ceased,

at the time, the statement of Loku Menike was recorded since the said right to

cross-examine was not in existence due to the express provisions found in the Act

No. 42 of 2007.

Therefore, the Law referred to in Section 7(1) of the Act No. 42 of 2007

cannot be disregarded even though the certification of the Act has been on a date

subsequent to the date on which the statement was recorded. Accordingly, it is my

view that Sections 6(3) (b) and 6(5) (b) read with Section 7(1) of the Act No.42 of

2007 show that the right of the accused to cross-examine the witness Loku

Menike at the non-summery proceedings had ceased at the time she gave

evidence before the learned Magistrate.

8

1 l 1 1 J I

•

Hence, the statement of Loku Menike recorded on 29.06.2007 at the non-

summary inquiry cannot be made admissible in evidence under Section 33 of the

Evidence Ordinance since the right to cross-examine the witness Loku Menike

had been taken away with the enactment of the Act No.42 of 2007 with

retrospective effect.

For the aforesaid reasons, this application is allowed. Accordingly, the order

dated 13.12.2013 of the learned High Court Judge is set aside. The Learned High

Court Judge is directed, not to allow the prosecution to produce the statement of .

the witness Loku Menike in the proceedings against the accused-petitioner.

Appeal Allowed

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEA

MALINIE GUNARATNE, J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

9

i 1 ilI,

III, ,

~

~