==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Rani Padmalatha Jayasooiriya

Gal-Oya Safari Lodge,

106, Kandy Road,

Ampara.

PETITIONER

C.A 169/2013 (Writ)

Vs.

1. Hon. Janaka Bandara Tennakoon

Minister of Lands and Land

Development,

Mihikatha Medura, Land Secretariat,

6/1200, Rajamalwatta Road,

Battaramulla.

2. Commissioner General of Lands,

Land Commissioner General's

Department,

No. 1200/6, Rajamalwatta Road,

Battaramulla.

3. Deputy Land Commissioner

Kachcheriya, Ampara.

4. The Divisional Secretary,

Divisional Secretariat, Ampara.

5. Nimala Piyeaseeli Senarath

No. 30/01, Sunethradevi Mawatha,

Kohuwela.

RESPONDENTS

1 I i I I 1 f \

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERATNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

Kanishka Vitharana & W.M. Abeyratne for the Petitioner

Milinda Gunatilleke D.S.G., for 1st to 4th Respondents

Udaya Bandara for the 5th Respondnet

07.02.2014

18.02.2014

2

This is an application for mandates in the nature of Writ of Certiorari/

Mandamus. By sub-para 'b' of the prayer to the petition a Writ of Certiorari is

sought to quash letter marked P25 of 21.9.2012 (communication by 1st

Respondent to one Rani Padmalatha Jayasekera informing that the land in dispute

cannot be leased, but would be leased to 5th Respondent). A Writ of Mandamus

as in sub-para 'c' directing 1st -4th Respondent to lease the land described in P25

to the Petitioner and also by sub- para 'd' for mandamus to follow the provisions

3

referred to therein and select the suitable person to alienate land described in

P25. When this application was supported by learned counsel for Petitioner on

07.02.2014, learned Deputy Solicitor General for 1st - 4th Respondent and learned

Counsel for 5th Respondent objected to the issuance of notice and moved to have

the said application rejected and dismissed.

Learned Counsel for Petitioner drew the attention of this court to the

several paras contained in the amended petition viz paras 6 to 24and submitted

to court that a long lease (P2) of 30 years of the land in dispute was granted to 5th

Respondent's husband one Somaratne Senerath a former Member of Parliament

and Deputy Minister who had done some improvements, re-construction of

houses etc. However after 1977 for reasons stated in para 9 of the petition the

above named Senarath could not continue to possess the land in dispute. It is also

pleaded that Petitioner's hUsband (paras 11 -24) had negotiated with the above

db Senerath to obtain title and ownership Jl the land in dispute. It is also pleaded

that a large sum of money had been invested in the land and certain

improvements had been done by the Petitioner's husband and continued to enjoy

land in dispute in the manner pleaded therein. i.e continuation of Guest House

etc. This court observes that there had not been any valid lease entered between

the Petitioner's husband and the state at any given point of time or the land had

4 i i i I I I

not been alienated according to the provisions of the Crown Lands Ordinance or

any other statute in favour of the Petitioner's husband or Petitioner.

The learned counsel accept the position that both the Petitioner's

husband and 5

th Respondent's husband expired at some point of time and also ,

!

refer to paras 30 - 33 of the Amended Petition.

It was the submission of learned counsel for Petitioner that attempts

were made and assurances given in some method or the other would make the

Petitioner to be entitled to have the land alienated to her, in the manner pleaded

in the body of the amended petition and that the Petitioner would be entitled to

the land in dispute. The learned Deputy Solicitor General drew the attention of

this court to lease document marked P2 and clause 9 of same which prohibits

alienation of the land in dispute as stated in the said Clause 9 and such acts would

make the lease invalid or void.

In view of the submissions made on behalf of the Respondents and

more particular the Petitioner having absolutely no status or a legal basis to

maintain this application and the delay in making an application to this court,

would disentitle the Petitioner for any relief in the manner pleaded. Any form of

/2-1 possession by the Petitioner or anyone holding under the Petition would be J€

(J,../ • unauthorized possession or a trespass~ This is not a fit and proper application

1 I ! f

1

5

to grant or issue formal notice on the Respondents. There is no merit in this

application. Further the material placed before this court indicates that the

Petitioner had previously moved the Supreme Court and at a certain stage

withdrew such application, before the Supreme Court. This is nothing but a futile

and a frivolous application without merit, and a misconceived application to

court. As such we reject and refuse to issue notice

Application dismissed without costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL