==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an Application for Revision in terms of Section 154P (6) of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

Officer in Chage Police Station, Wellawa.

Plaintiff Court of Appeal Case No: CA/PHC/0044/2023 Vs. Provincial High Court of Kurunegala Case No. HCR 16/2020 Kurunegala MC No. 6955/MIS/18

Lansakara Herath Mudiyanselage Duminda Bandara Hiriyala, Ambagaswewa, Nikadalupotha

Defendant AND BETWEEN

Lansakara Mudiyanselage Premalatha Hiriyala, Ambagaswewa, Nikadalupotha

Registered Owner-Petitioner

2

Vs. Officer in Chage Police Station, Wellawa. Plaintiff- 1st Respondent

Hon. Attorney General Attorney General’s Department, Colombo 12.

2nd Respondent

Mercantile Investments and

Financial PLC

No. 236,

Galle Road,

Colombo 03.

3rd Respondent

AND NOW BETWEEN

Lansakara Mudiyanselage Premalatha Hiriyaya, Ambagaswewa, Nikadalupotha.

Registered Owner-Petitioner-Appellant Vs.

Officer in Chage Police Station, Wellawa.

Plaintiff- 1st Respondent-Respondent

3

Hon. Attorney General Attorney General’s Department, Colombo 12.

2nd Respondent-Respondent

Mercantile Investments and

Financial PLC

No. 236,

Galle Road,

Colombo 03.

3rd Respondent-Respondent

Before: Amal Ranaraja, J.

Dr. Sumudu Premachandra, J.

Counsel: C. Sooriyarachchi with D.B. Bulathgama for the Appellant

Shezan Mahboob, S.C. for the State.

Argued on: 01.07.2026

Judgment on: 06.08.2026

4

Judgment

Amal Ranaraja. J,

1. The officer in charge of the Wallawa Police has submitted a plaint with

seized evidence to the Kurunegala Magistrates Court in Case No.

6955/MIS/18. This submission of a plaint has pertained to an incident

involving the arrest of an accused for allegedly committing offences under

the Animals Act No.29 of 1958 (as Amended) and the Prevention of Cruelty

to Animals Ordinance No.13 of 1907 (as Amended).

2. Among the seized evidence had been cattle and a vehicle bearing

Registration No. NWDL 1917. The accused upon pleading guilty to the

charges has been convicted and sentenced. Subsequently, a confiscation

inquiry has been held regarding the vehicle bearing Registration No. NWDL

1917.

3. By order dated May 18th, 2020, the learned Magistrate has ordered the

confiscation of said vehicle. Aggrieved by the order, the registered owner

petitioner-appellant (hereinafter referred to as appellant) filed an

application in revision (HCR 16-20) in the High Court of Kurunegala.

4. The learned High Court Judge by order dated February 28th, 2023, has

dismissed the revision application and affirmed the order of the learned

Magistrate. The appellant also being aggrieved by the order of the learned

High Court Judge of Kurunegala dated February 28th, 2023, has preferred

the instant appeal to this court.

5. It is common ground that the officer in charge at the Wallawa police has

instituted proceedings against Lansakara Herath Mudiyanselage Duminda

Bandara, for illegally transporting cattle and causing such cattle to be

carried in a vehicle, in a manner as to subject such cattle to unnecessary

pain/suffering, thereby, committing offences punishable under the

Animals Act and the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Ordinance.

5

6. Section 3A of the Animals Act No. 29 of 1958 (as Amended) provides as

follows;

3A. Where any person is convicted of an offence under this Part or any

regulations made thereunder, any vehicle used in the commission of such

offence shall, in addition to any other punishment prescribed for such

offence, be liable, by order of the convicting Magistrate, to confiscation:

Provided, however, that in any case where the owner of the vehicle is a

third party, no order of confiscation shall be made, if the owner proves to

the satisfaction of the Court that he has taken all precautions to prevent

the use of such vehicle or that the vehicle has been used without his

knowledge for the commission of the offence.

7. In terms of Section 3A of the Animals Act No. 29 of 1958 (as Amended), it

would be necessary for the owner of the vehicle, to establish that the

vehicle that had been used for the commission of the offence, had been so

used without his knowledge, and that the owner had taken all precautions

available to prevent the use of the vehicle for the commission of such an

offence.

8. Upon perusal of the documents marked X, X1 and annexed to the revision

application forwarded to the High Court of Kurunegala, it is apparent that

the appellant, as the petitioner in that case, has tendered to the High Court

copies of the plaint, certain journal entries in the Magistrates Court case

record, and orders relating to the confiscation of the vehicle in issue,

together with the order for the confiscation of the cattle involved.

Nevertheless, the appellant has not tendered the testimony recorded at

either of the inquiries.

9. This omission is significant because the recorded testimony constitutes

“documents material to the application” within the meaning of Rule 3(1)(a)

of the Court of Appeal (Appellate Procedure) Rules 1990. Accordingly,

6

where a petitioner fails to comply with the requirements of that Rule, the

court is entitled to dismiss the application, either on its own motion (ex

mero motu), or upon the request of any party.

10. The learned High Court Judge has referred to this fact in the impugned

order. Further, in the absence of the testimony he would not have been in

a position to decide whether the learned Magistrate’s order was perverse.

11. In those circumstances, I am not inclined to interfere with the orders of

the learned High Court Judge and the learned Magistrate dated February

28th, 2023 and May 18th, 2020, respectively.

12. Hence, I proceed to dismiss this appeal but I make no order regarding

costs.

Appeal dismissed.

13. The Registrar of this Court is directed to send this Judgement to the High

Court and Magistrates Court in Kurunegala for information/compliance.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Dr. Sumudu Premachandra, J.

I agree

Judge of the Court of Appeal