==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

c. A. No : 71/2012

H. C. Kegalle No : 3075/11

In the matter of an Appeal against

an order of the High Court under

Sec. 331 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure Act No. 15 of 1979.

Sudu Hakuruge Upali Premathilaka,

Bogambara Prison.

Accused-Appellant

v.

The Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

Respondent

1

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

H. N. J. Perera, J. &

K. K. Wickremasinghe, J.

Dharmasiri Karunaratne for the Accused-Appellant.

Kapila Waidyaratne A.S.G for the Attorney General.

19th June 2015

04th September 2015

K. K. WICKREMASINGHE, J.

The Accused-Appellant, in this case was indicted in the High Court of Kegalle for

committing the murder of one Sisira Kumara Seneviratne on or about 28.02.2010,

which is an offence punishable under the s.296 of the Penal Code.

On 07.06.2012 the indictment was read to the appellant and there he had pleaded

not guilty.

After the conclusion of the case of the prosecution, on 19.06.2012 the learned Trial

Judge had convicted the Accused-Appellant for committing murder of the deceased

and imposed the death sentence.

This appeal lies against the aforesaid conviction and the sentence.

2

Grounds of Appeal:

The evidence of the main witness for the prosecution is not credible. Therefore, the

prosecution had not established the case beyond reasonable doubt.

The prosecution had not produced the mobile phone of the accused appellant

referred to in the evidence. Therefore, it creates reasonable doubt in the

prosecution case.

According to the prosecution, the incident had taken place as follows:

Sisira Kumara Seneviratne (the deceased) was employed as a private bus driver in

Harigala. Dammika Priyangani Thilakaratne had testified that the deceased had

gone to her house (Witness No.1) about two weeks prior to his death around 9pm.

(pg. 17 of the brief) Dammika Priyangani's husband was employed abroad at that

time. (pg. 16 of the brief) The deceased stayed in Dammika Priyangani's house for

about half an hour on this occasion. While the deceased was there, Upali

Premathilaka (the Accused-Appellant herein after referred to as the 'Appellant')

who was Dammika Priyangani's husband's uncle, came to her house and scolded

them. Shortly after this, the deceased left her house. Then the Appellant advised

the witness not to bring the deceased into her home. The deceased had come to

Dammika Priyangani's house again on the 27.09.2010 around 9pm and she had

thereafter engaged in a conversation with him which had lasted for about 10 to 15

minutes. Whilst she was engaged in the conversation she heard a sound of the

buttons of a mobile phone being pressed. Then she had peeped outside of the

window and she had seen the appellant seated outside wearing a black cap.

However in her statement to the police, she had not mentioned that she recognised

the appellant. (pg. 28 of the brief) Dammika Priyangani testified that when she saw

someone outside wearing a black cap, she rang the appellant's phone and that his

phone rang and thereby she recognised him. (Pg. 30 of the brief) The appellant had

threated the witness to open the door and there after continued to remain there

till around 4am. (pg. 20 of the brief) During that time the deceased was in Dammika

Priyangani's house. There after the appellant had demanded her to open the door,

continuously over a period of 5 to 10 minutes. She had identified the appellant from

his voice as well. The tone of the appellant made her to feel that he would do some

3

harm. Therefore she had advised the deceased to make his exit from the kitchen

door. Shortly after the deceased left the house through the back door while

Dammika Priyangani opened the front door for the Appellant. Once the Appellant

came in, he searched for the deceased in the whole house to check whether the

deceased was still there. After doing so, the appellant left after about 10 to 15

minutes. This was at around 4am.Thereafter the appellant had found his way out

from the rear door.

After the Appellant left, Dammika Priyangani had gone to sleep with her two

children having closed both doors. She had managed to sleep only for about half

an hour until she had woken up upon hearing the sound of a thud which had come

from the direction of the kitchen door. (pg. 23 of the brief) She had reckoned the

said sound heard to have been that of the sound of something being released to

the ground. The kitchen door was remained closed at that point of time. She had

stepped outside to check what it was and she had seen the deceased lying on the

floor and a large amount of blood near grinding stone. She had also seen the

appellant standing near the deceased. After seeing her, the appellant had

threatened her to remain inside the house, keeping her mouth shut about what

she had seen. He had further threatened her that he would do the same thing which

he had done to the deceased to her as well if she narrates what she had seen to

anyone else.

There after she had seen the appellant walking away carrying the body of the

deceased with him towards the cemetery. (pg. 24 of the brief) She had remained

inside the house and had refrained from informing anyone out of fear.

Nevertheless, she had later proceeded to the Pindeniya police to make statement

of what she had seen.

Investigating Officer IP Athawuda in his evidence had stated that the Pindeniya

Police station had received the first information around 8.30 am on the 28th of

February 2010.

The police had conducted investigations .Investigating officers had visited the

scene of crime and discovered blood stains on the rear side of the wall outside the

house and also, on the road leading towards the cemetery. (pg. 25 of the brief)

4

Upon visiting the scene and discovering the body in a rubber estate, the police

officers also identified blood stains along both sides of the road where the body

was discovered. (pg. 74 of the brief) When the officers continued further along the

road, they arrived at a junction where they discovered blood stains. They also

discovered blood stains on the road to the left and right of the junction. Further

along the road, they discovered house where they discovered bloodstains on two

Mahogany trees, on the walls of the house and on the grinding stone in the kitchen.

Sand was discovered behind the house, and blood stains were discovered under

the sand. Observations of the investigating officer clearly establishes that the body

of the deceased had been moved from the place where the witness Dammika

Priyangani had first seen the deceased lying and the appellant standing nearby

outside the kitchen door next to the grinding stone.

Dammika Priyangani identified the appellant as the one who carried the body of

the deceased. The name of the appellant and his involvement had been revealed

subsequently to the recording of the statement of the witness Dammika Priyangani

IP Athawuuda had accordingly gone in search of the appellant to his house on the

28th night and the appellant was not to be found at home.

Amali Udayangani Jayasinghe (Witness No.7) who was the niece of Dammika

Priyangani testified that Dammika Priyangani had asked her to keep two phones

about a week prior to the day the witness (Amali Jayasinghe) gave her statement

to the police. She handed over these phones to the police.

In the testimony of Samaweeraarachchilage Deepika Priyadarshani (the deceased's

wife: Witness No.2), she identified the clothes of the deceased as those he was

wearing the last time she saw him. She also identified a blood stain on those clothes

and stated that it was not present on his clothes at the time that the deceased left

the house. The witness also identified a 'Nokia' phone as the phone that was owned

by the deceased.

The medical evidence of the judicial Medical Officer, Dr. Sunil Piyasena

Angappulihewage (Witness No.11) revealed that there had been nine injuries on

the deceased. Out of these nine injuries most of the injuries were caused by a blunt

5

weapon, a large stone. (pg.'s 61 and 62 of the brief) The second injury was

identified as a necessary fatal. (pg. 63 of the brief)

The Appellant in his gave a dock statement had completely denied the allegation

levelled against him, and stated that he did not know anything and that he was

residing in his wife's house.

The fact that the prosecution has failed to lead evidence pertaining to the mobile

phone and its used which prove any connection to the appellant, in no way cast a

doubt in the prosecution case, since there is ample evidence of the eye witness and

the strong circumstantial cogent evidence which I have already mentioned above.

Though the counsel for the appellant mentioned that the evidence of the main

witness was not credible, her evidence corroborate with the findings of the

investigators and the medical evidence. The ·available unchallenged direct and

circumstantial evidence of the prosecution amply demonstrate the culpability of

the appellant for committing the alleged offence of murder.

In the case of Sumanasena Vs. Attorney Genera/1999 (3) SLR 137 it was held

that:

1. Evidence must not be counted but weighed and the evidence of a single solitary witness if cogent and impressive could be acted upon by a Court of law.

2. Just because the witness is a belated witness Court ought not to reject his testimony on that score alone, Court must inquire into the reason for the delay and if the reason for the delay is plausible and justifiable the Court could act on the evidence of a belated witness.

3. Though the prosecution is not required to establish a motive once a cogent and intelligible motive has been established that fact considerably advances and strengthens the prosecution case.

4. When the prosecution establishes a strong and incriminating cogent evidence against the accused, the accused in those circumstances was required in law to

6

,Ifier an explanation of the highly incriminating circumstances established against

I, ,lim.

,,1 Sumanasena's easel it was discussed that "In our law of evidence the salutary I,rinciple is enunciated that evidence must not be countedl but weighed and the

~yidence of a single solitary witness if cogent and impressive could be acted upon

Ilya Court of law. Section 134 of the Evidence Ordinance sets out that 'no particular

tI~mber of witnesses shall in any case be required for the proof of any fact'. In an

f/,aian case the conviction for murder was affirmed on the mere circumstantial

ividence given by a solitary witness and a pointed reference was made to the t I,(inciple which we have adumbrated above vide Mulluwa v. The State of Maddhya

I,radesh. Testimony must always be weighed and not counted and these principles

IIflve been followed by Justice G. P. A. De Silva in Walimunige John v. State; King v.

~. A, Fernando. II

,rerefore in the present case the learned Trial Judge could have acted on the

t4vidence of Witness No.1, since the learned Trial Judge had the benefit of observing

,/le demeanour and deportment of Witness No.1, Dammika Priyangani

,rilakaratne and her testimonial trustworthiness and credibility. It seems that the

I,~fence Counsel was unable to make a dent on the credibility of Witness No.1 and

If)tablish to court that the witness ought not to be believed. Therefore strong

, /rcumstantial, cogent evidence has been established against the accused. In such

,I situation the accused was required in law to offer an explanation when highly

,llcriminating circumstances were established against him.

III this present case the accused had merely given a dock statement denying the

,Iffence and claimed that he did not know anything. The evidence given by Witness

,10.1 was subject to severe cross examination and it was given under oath,

,!"hereas, the statement of the accused-appellant, denying the offence was given iithout an oath. In the case of The Queen Vs. Kularatne and two others 1967 (71)

I,ILR 5291 it was held that "when an unsworn statement is made by the accusedfrom

I fie dock, the jurors must be informed that such statement must be looked upon as

I vidence, subject however to the infirmity that the accused had deliberately

I 4rained from giving sworn testimony."

7

Although the Appellant's counsel tries to discredit the testimony of the prosecution

witness, the evidence in this case has been carefully scrutinised by the Trial Judge

herself who had the full advantage of observing all the witnesses in this case before

her. In the Supreme Court case of Aiwis Vs. Piyasena Fernando 1993 (1) SLLR 119 at 122, Hon. G.P.S De Silva 0 stated as follows: "It is well established that findings of primary facts by a trial judge who hears and sees witnesses are not to be lightly disturbed in appeal." Thus the acceptance of evidence by the Trial Judge cannot be

easily faulted.

When considering the judgement of the learned High Court Judge it is very clear

that the learned High Court Judge had very correctly evaluated the evidence and

arrived at the decision.

Therefore I see no reason to interfere with the findings of the learned High Court

Judge. In these circumstances I affirm the conviction and the sentence imposed by

the learned High Court Judge of the High Court of Kegalle.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

H.N.J. PERERA J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

8

CASES REFERED TO:

1. Sumanasena Vs. Attorney General 1999 (3) SLR 137

• 2. The Queen Vs. Kularatne and Two Others 1967 (71) NLR 529

3. Alwis Vs. Piyasena Fernando 1993 (1) SLLR 119

4. Mulluwa v. The State of Maddhya Pradesh 1976 AIR SC 989

5. Walimunige John v. State (76) NLR 488

6. King v. N. A, Fernando (46) NLR 254

9

,

t t (! I

f ! ,

I f ! f I ! !}

I

~