==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST RE UBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application un er Article

140 of the Constitution of the D mocratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lan a for a

mandate in the nature of writ of ertiorari,

Mandamus and Prohibition.

1. Mohamed Rifki Noordeen,

No,4, Bagatale Road,

Colombo 3.

2. Mohamed Harnza Hilali Idroos Nordeen,

No.42,Addison Road,

c.A. Writ Application No: c.A. 608/08

London WIG6AL

United Kingdom And / or

No.4A, Bagatalle Road,

Colombo 3.

Appearing by his Power of Attorn y holder

Mahmood Rizvan Sahabdeen,

No.30/12, Bagatalle Road,

Colombo 3

Petitio ers

Vs

1. Mrs.Fathima Kyria Carder

No 70/1 Davidson Road, C lombo 4.

2. Jeewan Kumaranatunga

Minister of Lands,

\

•

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued on

Decided on

S.Sriskandarajah.J,

Ministry of Lands,

"Govijana Mandiraya"

80/5, Rajamalwatta Roa ,

Battaramulla.

And four(04) others.

2

Res 0 dents

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J

M.R.de Silva PC with Vishva Gunaratne,

for the Petitioner.

A. Rajapakse

for the 1st Respondent

A.Gnanathasan PC ASG with Deepthi

Thilakawardene SC

for the Respondents

05.05.2011

15.05.2012

The 2nd Respondent in order to commence acquisition proceedings

a land bearing Assessment No 99,Sri Rathnajothy Mawatha, publishe a

Section 2 notice on the 07th of March 1980 under the provisions of the I nd

Acquisition Act. The land described in the said notice is in extent of 40

perches. The 2nd Respondent submitted that the Minister of Lands ,u on

being satisfied the need to take urgent possession of the said land made or er

under the proviso to Section 38 of the Land Acquisition Act and published he

same on 9th of June 1980 in the Gazette Extraordinary No 92/2. In the s id

order the extent of the land described as 37 perches based on the Pan

No.Co/30. A notice under Section 5 of the land Acquisition Act as

published on the 5th of September 1980 declaring that the said land is nee

3

for a public purpose. The extent of the said land was described in the s id

declaration as 37 perches based on the said plan No.Co/30.

A Section 7 notice under the Land Acquisition Act was published in he

Government Gazette bearing No. 159/16 dated 25th September 1 81

requesting all interested claimants to be present and to notify the natu of

their interest. The said Section 7 notice described the said land with refere ce

to a plain bearing No.5535 dated01/03/1981. The total extent of the I nd

referred to in the said Section 7 notice is 39.46 Perches.

The Petitioner's contention is that the notices published under Section 5 nd

Section 7 in the said acquisition proceedings are incorrect. The Petition r's

allegation is based on the extent of the land described in the said notices t ey

differ from 37 perches to 39,46 perches. The boundaries described in

section 5 notice differ from the Section 7 notice. In these circumstances

Petitioners contended that the said notices have to be cancelled

republished to have identical descriptions in both notices. For this purp se

the Petitioners have sought a writ of certiorari to quash the said notices un er

Section 5 and Section 7 and a writ of mandamus to publish notices under

said section after rectifying the error. The Petitioners have also sought a

of prohibition to prohibit the acquisition process under Section 9 of the L nd

Acquisition Act.

It is pertinent to note that the Petitioners have not complaind against he

Section 2 notice or the order made under the provisio to Section 38 of the I nd

Acquisition Act. It shows that the Petitioners are not challenging the pu lic

purpose for which the land was acquired and the urgency to acquire the I nd

for the said public purpose. Section 2 notice is published to ascertain he

suitability of the land for the said public purpose. Section 2 notice i in

I {\

4

relation to an extent of 40 perches. But the order under Section 38 proviso (a)

is for an extent of 37 perches.

Section 40 of the Land Acquisition Act provides that when an Order of he

Minister under section 38 is published in the Gazette, then that land shall, by

virtue of that Order, vest absolutely in the State free from all encumbra es

with effect from the date on which that Order is so published. In view of t se

provisions the said land is vested absolutely in the State. The remaining is ue

is in relation to the payment of compensation. When the land that is veste in

the State is identified by the order under Section 38 of the Land Acquisi . on

Act the owners or who has a claim to the said land could make a claim w en

Section 9 inquiry is held. At this inquiry if there is a disputed claim betw en

the claimants and State the inquiring officer could refer the matter to he

District Court to resolve the issue.

The 5th Respondent contended that the land was acquired for the purpos of

the 5th Respondent the National Housing Development Authority. As

described in Section 7 notice an extent of 39.44 perches has been handed 0 er

to the National Housing Development Authority by vesting certificate bea . g

No.Ath/1/367 dated 9th September 1987 but when this land was resurve

in 1999 the land handed over to the National Housing Develop

Authority and it is in possession of the land only in extent of 36.89 perche

view of this fact quashing of Section 5 and Section 7 notices and Republis . g

of the same with the correct extent will not .serve any purpose and the erro in

the extent mentioned in Section 7 notice will not cause prejudice to the

Petitioners as the land vested in the State is correctly identified by the Sec 'on

38 proviso (a) order. In view of the above reasons I dismiss this applica 'on

without costs.

/. /-.,../ --------" . /'fl"resident of the Court of Appeal