==== BLOCKS ==== 

q

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. (Writ) No. 546(2010

In the matter of an application for a mandate in the nature of writ of Certiorari under Article 140 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Ceylon Homes International (Lotus Tower) Limited,

No. 79, Hyde Park Corner, Colombo 02.

Petitioner

Vs.

1. W.J.L.U. Wijeweera, Commissioner General of Labour, Labour Secretariat, PO Box 575, Narahenpita, Colombo 5.

2. P.L.S. Lekamge, Labour Officer, The Termination of Employment

Unit, Labour Secretariat, PO Box 575, Narahenpita, Colombo 5.

3. S.A.D.M.E. Jayathillake, No. 558, Heenkenda, Ragama.

4. T.G. Upali Jayathillake,

No. 359, Wallahagoda, Gampola.

5. M.S.T. Chathuranga, No. 145, Maakumbura Watta, Badullawa.

Respondents

1

Before

Counsel

Argued on

SRI SKANDARAJAH, J. (PICA) & H.N.J. PERERA, J.

Caniska Vitharana for the Petitioner

Ruwanthi Herath Gunaratne, SC for the 1 st and 2nd Respondents

Nirosh Bandara for the 3rd- 5th Respondents.

27.07.2011.

Written Submissions on 02.08.2011- 1st & 2nd Respondents 29 .. 08.2011- Petitoner

Decided on 24.10.2011.

********

H.N.J. Perera, J.

The petitioner filed this application seeking writ of Certiorari to

quash the order dated 22.7.2010 made by the 1st respondent, the

Commissioner General of Labour directing the petitioner to pay Rs.

2,380,670.50 to the 3rd, 4th and 5th respondents. The 3rd , 4th and

5th Respondents were admittedly employees of the petitioner

company Ceylinco Homes International (Lotus) Limited, a duly

incorporated company under the Act No.7 of 2007 and having

the capacity to sue and be sued in such name and engaged in

the business of constructing and sale of luxury houses and

apartment. The 2nd respondent IS a Labour Officer attached

to the termination Unit of the Labour Secretariat, who was

2

'!.

authorized by delegation of powers by the 1 st respondent to inquire

"into the application made by the 3rd, 4th and 5th respondents against

the petitioner.

In paragraph 7 of the petition the petitioner claims that in the year

2003, the petitioner company was granted a land on a 99 year term

lease by the Urban Development Authority (UDA) which preceded oy

the Government tender published calling for prospective investors

for the development of the said land at Colombo 3. The petitioner

successfully achieved the award by proposing the implementation of

Ceylon Celestial Residencies Project.

In paragraphs 8 and 9 of the petition the petitioner claims that the

petitioner designed the entire project in conformity with the statutory

requirement and obtained necessary approvals from all the

relevant state agencies and statutory bodies and that the petitioner

had to invest about 266 million Rupees for the payment of the

lease premium to the UDA and another 5 billion Rupees to obtain

necessary approvals and carry out further development as at to date.

In paragraph 10 and 11 of the petition, the petitioner states that

the construction work was commenced in 2006 with over 500

workers working at the site and in June 2008 when the building

3

construction was progressmg, officers of the Urban Development

Authority unexpectedly and suddenly and without adducing any

"reason whatsoever ordered the petitioner to immediately stop

construction work of the facades facing the Temple Tree premises

and strong directions were received by the petitioner from the UDA

to stop completely the entire constriction work of the project.

The petitioner was further informed that the construction of a hig'h-

rise building in the vicinity of the temple trees premises would

inflict and bring about security threats to the life of VIPs and

endanger the national Security. The petitioner made serious effort to

convmce the relevant authorities to re-commence work but

managed only to proceed with work for a short period and

thereafter the security authorities refused to renew entry permits

for concrete truck mixture and accordingly the UDA prevented the

Colombo Municipal Council from extending the building permit.

And further the UDA did not consent for a secondary mortgage of

the project for the Finance Company PLC (TFC) to secure loan

facilities for the petitioner company.

In the circumstances it is the position of the petitioner that it was

confronted with a situation "force majeure" resulted by coercion

and irresistible suspension of business activities of the Company

4

I i f I I

-•

. cumstances

beyond which were ning Clr .' er nting to interve b the petltlon which amou t preventable y , ble and no , ' ner lS the control no t foreseea that the petltto f the petitioner the position 0 , all the company, It is h performlng d f m furt er have excuse ro , 1 dl'ng those entitled in law to . cts lnc u with the proJe , din connection contracts entere

h t has been contracts of employment t a

petitioner and the 3rd , 4th and 5th respondents.

between the entered

It is also the position of the petitioner company that such

circumstances are also amounting to instances of supervening

impossibility and frustration whereby the petitioner is entitled in

law to treat all the contracts performed in connection with such projects including those contract of I emp oyment that had been entered between the petitioner and th

as ended discharged or terminated.

e 3

rd

, 4th and 5th respondents

The petitioner further states that in the circumstances the petitioner

offered compensation packages for the employees, who volunteered

to resign from the petitioner company, Six employees, including the

3 rd, 4th and 5th respondents, whose services the petitioner wa

incapable of further obtaining, were granted leave with pay wit

effect from 1 st April 2009 during and for the temporary period

suspension of the two projects and as the petitioner was unable

•

termination IS due to closure of a trade or business, to make order

awarding compensation as an alternative to reinstatement and the

compensation that could be awarded has been set out in Gazette

Extraordinary 1384/07 dated 15th March 2005.

It is the contention of the respondents that in view of the statutory

provisions contained in the Termination of Employment of Workmen

(Special Provisions) Act (TEWA), if the petitioner wished to

terminate the services of the 3rd , 4th and 5th respondents as a result

of a vis major or supervening impossibility as claimed, the prior

consent of the said workmen and the approval of the Commissioner

of Labour should have been obtained and instead the petitioner

issued letters marked P4, P5 and P9 unilaterally terminating the

services of the respondents.

The petitioner has claimed that the order and the findings of the 1 st

respondent containing in the said order is ex facie not within the

power conferred on the 1st and 2nd respondents. Section 5 of the

Termination of Employment of Workmen (Special Provisions) Act

provides, where an employer terminate the scheduled employment

of a workmen in contravention of the provisions of this Act, such

termination shall be illegal, null and void, and accordingly shall be

no effect whatsoever. The Deputy Commissioner in his order P27

10

•

"has come to the conclusion that the 15t respondent has terminated

the employment of the employees in contravention of the prOVISIon

of the said Act. Therefore the termination is illegal, null and no

effect whatsoever. However the 15t respondent had concluded inter

alia that stoppage of work of the 3rd 4th and 5th respondents was

consequent to compulsion to stop main operation of the petitioner

company for reasons beyond control of the petitioner company. If

the employer was unable to continuously employ his employees

due to a reasons beyond control of the petitioner company, petitioner

should have brought the facts to the notice of the Commissioner of

Labour and obtained his permission before terminating the services

of the employees. In this case the evidence had been clearly led

before Commissioner of Labour to show that the petitioner has

terminated the services of the 3rd, 4th and 5th respondent without

obtaining prior approval of the Commissioner of Labour by the

documents marked P4,P5 and P9. The Commissioner in his order

P27 has come to the conclusion that the petitioner (employer) has

terminated the employment of the 3rd , 4th and 5th respondents in

contravention of this provision of the said Act. Therefore the

termination is illegal, null and void and no effect whatsoever. And

as the 15t respondent has concluded that the stoppage of work of

the 3rd, 4th and 5th respondent was consequent to compulsion to

stop main operation of the petitioner company for reasons beyond

11

•

control of the petitioner company, the 1st respondent has proceeded

to act under section 6A of the Termination of Employment of

Workmen (Special Provisions) Act TEWA to grant compensation to

the said 3rd, 4th and 5th respondents. In the event that the

termination had been effected in contravention of the section 2,

the Act also contains provisions in section 6 and 6A empowering

-the Commissioner to make order compelling the employer to continue

the employment of the workman and to pay wages and all other

benefit or in a case where the termination is due to closure of a

trade or business , to make order awarding compensation as an

alternative to re-instatement. In view of the statutory provisions

contained in the Termination of Employment of Workmen (Special

Provisions) Act (TEWA), if the petitioner wished to terminate the

services of 3rd , 4th and 5th respondents as a result of a vis major or .

supervening impossibility as claimed the prior consent of the said

workmen and the approval of the Commissioner of Labour should

have been obtained, instead the petitioner has issued letters

marked as P4, P5, pg unilaterally terminating the services of the

respondents. The facts support the contention of the respondents

that the petitioner has terminated the services of the 3rd, 4th and 5th

respondents in contravention of the provisions of the Termination of

Employment of Workmen (Special Provisions) Act TEWA. Therefoce

12

•

the Commissioner is empowered to make an order under section 6

or 6A of the Act.

Although the petitioner has alleged that this is not a matter which

come within the provision of section 6A since the commissioner

has not come to a definite finding of a closure of the petitioner

company this court observes as pointed out by the respondents in

their written submissions in the submissions made by the

petitioner before the 2nd respondent and from the contents of

documents marked P4,P5 and P9 and counter submissions, it

has been repeatedly stated that since the petitioner's buildings

project have been suspended indefinitely the petitioner cannot

continue to employ the 3rd 4th and 5th Respondents and to pay their

wages. This is clearly stated in the order of the 18t respondent

marked P 27. The 18t respondent has concluded that inter alia

that stoppage of work of the 3rd, 4th and 5th respondent has been

consequent to compulsion to stop main operations of the petitioner

company and for reasons beyond the control of the petitioner

company, but the petitioner has failed to make an application under

section 2 of the Act No. 45 of 1971 and further that the petitioner

company has failed to state a definite date on which the company

is able to open up for business.

13

•

Section 6 A deals with the situation where the employment of aRy

workmen is terminated in contravention of the provisions of the Act

in consequence of the closure by his employer of any trade,

industry or business. In these circumstances the Commissioner is

empowered to award compensation to the employees whose

servIces are terminated in contravention of the said Act an as

alternative to re-instate of such workmen.

In L. Nishantha Kumara de Silva Vs. Road Construction and

Development Company (Pvt) Limited and two others C.A. (Writ)

Application No. 1317/2003 the court after considering the case

K.D.C. Predeep and 16 Others Vs. Skyspan Asia (Pvt) Limited

and 4 others C.A.(Writ) Application No. 2045/2003 C.A. Minute

22.6.2005 held that where there is no provision in law to deal with

a situation where the employer has become incapable of providing

employment to the employees not due to closure but due to

various circumstances that has arisen at the time of the

determination of the Commissioner, on an application of the

employees in relation to the termination of the employment applying

the rationale of the above judgment, not only the employee but

also the employer becomes incapable or not in a position to

continuously employ an employee due to various circumstances

other than closure in the opinion of the Commissioner at the time

14

•

of the determination of the Commissioner; that the employer had

terminated the services of the employees in contravention of the Act ,

the word "may order" in section 6, could be interpreted, that it

empowers the Commissioner to order compensation instead of

ordering the employer to continue to employ the workmen.

Even if one is to argue that the said order P27 is not specific as

to whether the determination of 1 st respondent does fall within he

interpretation of closure by the employer, as it has been repeatedly

. stated by the petitioner that since the petitioner's building project

has been suspended indefinitely the petitioner cannot continue to

employ the workmen and pay their wages, it could be said that

Section 6 empowers the Commissioner to order compensation

instead of ordering the employer to continue to employ the

workmen. Therefore this Court cannot agree with the contention of

the petitioner that the 1 st respondent had no jurisdiction to act either

under Section 6 or 6A of the Termination of Employment of Workmen

(Special Provisions) Act (TEWA) .

.The petitioner has in paragraph 37(a) (i) alleged that the

Commissioner has failed to act in conformity with the rules of

natural justice. It is stated that the petitioner was not given an

opportunity to cross examine the 3rd_ 5th respondents.

15

On perusal of the proceedings marked P16 it is seen that the

petitioner and the respondents have consented to the Commissioner

deciding the matter upon written submission to be filed by them.

Therefore this court see no merit in the argument of the petitioner.

It is further alleged that the Commissioner has acted arbitrarily and

m bias in favour of the 3rd -5th respondents holding that the

workmen are exempted from any responsibility for the situation faced

by the petitioner company. The Commissioner in his order marked

P7 has clearly held that the workmen are not responsible for the

situation faced by the company. It is clearly seen that the 3rd , 4th

and 5th respondents are in fact not in anyway responsible for this

situation faced by the petitioner. The contention of the petitioner is

that the contracts of employment with the said respondents were

frustrated as a result of vis major and supervening impossibility

as claimed. Therefore this allegation of bias on the part of the 18t

respondent has no valid basis In law.

The section 11 ( 2) permits the commissioner to delegate to any

officer of the Lobour Department any power, function or duty

conferred and imposed on him under the Termination of

Employment of Workmen (Special Provisions) Act (TEWA). It has been

held that the commissioner can delegate his power to an Assit.

16

•

Commissioner to hold an inquiry and In this case to the 2nd

respondent.

Although the petitioner alleged that the computation of the amoupt

awarded as compensation and the duration for which it has been

awarded is erroneous this court find that matter has been raised by

the petitioner for the first time at the argument stage before this

court.

For the above reasons this court finds no merit in the application

filed by the petitioner accordingly dismisses the same with costs

payable by the petitioner to the 3rd , 4th and 5th respondents.

Application is dismissed.

JUDGE OF

S. Sriskandarajah, J.(P/CA)

I agree.

PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

/mds

17