==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRIL LANKA

Kahandawa Arachchige Don Sisira

Accused -Appellant

Vs. C.A. 272/2008 High Court Gampaha No. 267/06

Before:

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

The Hon. Attorney-General, Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

Respondent

SISIRA DE ABREW, J & P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA, J

Sumith Senanayake with Damitha Wickramarachchi for the Accused-Appellant.

Chethiya Gunasekera SSC for the State.

08.03.2013.

Sisira de Abrew, J,

The accused-appellant who is on bail is present in Court.

We had checked the identity of the accused-appellant with his

driving license that has been handed over to the reception when he

obtained a security pass. Accused-Appellant who is present in Court

admits that the driving license No. GM-018846, is his driving

license.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted for the offence of

criminal breach of trust in respect of Rs. 32,61700 I-The learned

Trial Judge after trial sentenced the accused -appellant to a term of

03 years Rigorous Imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs. 10,000/-

carrying a default sentence of 06 months rigorous imprisonment. In

addition to the said punishment the learned Trial Judge ordered the

accused to pay the amount ( Rs. 3,261,700/-) that is misappropriated

from his mother, to his mother. Being aggrieved by the said conviction

and the sentence the accused-appellant has appealed to this Court.

Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as follows:-

The accused-appellant's mother who purchased a lottery

became the winner of the lottery. She, in trust, handed over the

lottery to his son who is the accused-appellant in this case for the

purpose of obtaining money from the Lotteries Board. The accused-

appellant obtained Rs. 32,61,700/- from the Lotteries Board but did

not hand over the said amount to his mother. Although mother

requested the amount he did not return the amount.

However he handed over Rs. 100,000/- to his mother.

After making several requests, she ultimately decided to lodge a

complaint at the police station. This was the summary of the evidence

of the complainant Kekulawala Jeyawardena Arachchige Leelawathie.

The accused-appellant too gave evidence in this case. He took up the

position that he purchased this particular lottery and he became the

winner. Thereafter he obtained money from the Lotterys Board. The

learned High Court Judge however rejected his evidence. Although he

takes up the position that he was the owner of the lottery, he admitted

to one Anura Shantha who gave evidence that the winning lottery

belonged to his mother. Vide page 325 of the brief.

Anura Shantha, on hearing that the accused-appellant

V had won a lottery, pe came and requested the money that he had

advanced to him on an earlier occasion. It is at this time the accused-

appellant told Anura Shantha that the lottery belonged to his

mother. This evidence of Anura Shantha was not challenged by the

accused-appellant in the cross-examination. The evidence of the

accused-appellant could be rejected on this point alone.

Accused-appellant's mother gave evidence in detail about

the purchase of the lottery. She in fact named the person from

whom the lottery was purchased.

The learned High Court Judge after considering both

evidence of the prosecution of the defence decided to reject the

evidence of the accused-appellant. The learned trial Judge who

convicted the accused, was able to observe the demeanour and

deportment of the witnesses. We note that the complainant

Leelawathie too had given evidence before the judge who convicted

the accused-appellant

Learned counsel for the accused-appellant at the hearing

before us admitted that the complainant Leelawathie is now dead.

~ourt of Appeal will not ~,~turb the finding of a trial Judge

who had come to a conclusion after observing the demeanour of the

witnesses. This view is supported by judgment of the Privy Council

m Fraad vs Brown & Company Ltd. 20 NLR page 282 wherein

Privy Council states thus; " It is rare that a decision of a judge so

express, so explicit, upon a point of fact purely, is over ruled by a Court

of Appeal, because Courts of Appeal recognize the priceless

advantage which a Judge of first instance has in matters of that kind,

as contrasted with any Judge of a Court of Appeal, who can only learn

from paper or from narrative of those who were present. It is very rare,

in questions of veracity so direct and so specific as these, a Court of

Appeal will overrule a Judge of first instance." In Alwis Vs.

Piyasena Fernando Lordship Chief Justice G.P.S. de Silva

observes thus;" It is well established that the finding of primary facts

by trial Judge who hears and sees witnesses are not to be lightly

disturbed on appeal"

Applying the principle laid down 1n the above judicial

literature, we refuse to intervene with the finding of the trial Judge

who had observed the demeanour and deportment of the witnesses

The complaint made by the leaned counsel for the

accused-appellant before us was that the accused did not have fair

trial as copies of the documents produced at the trial were not given

to him. But we note that learned counsel who appeared for accused-

appellant at the trial, had the opportunity of perusing these

documents before the commencement of the trial and during the

pendency of the trial.

We also note that most of the documents produced are

documents relating to the accused-appellant's accounts. When we

consider all these matters we are unable to accept the contention of

the leaned counsel for the accused-appellant that the accused-

appellant at the trial, did not have the opportunity of examining the

documents produced by prosecution. We reject the said submissions.

We have gone through the evidence and the judgment

of this case. We see no reasons to interfere with the judgment of the

learned trial judge. For the above reasons, we affirm the conviction

and the sentence imposed by the learned trial judge. We note that

the accused-appellant has misappropriated his mother's money .

Since the accused- appellant is on bail, we decide to place the

accused-appellant in the custody of Prison .

We direct the Prison Authorities to take the accused

into the Prison Custody and implement the sentence imposed by the

learned High Court Judge from today.

The Registrar of this Court is directed to inform the Prison

Authorities of the judgment of this Court.

The Prison Authorities are directed to produce the

accused-appellant in the relevant High Court and obtain the

necessary committal. Appeal of the accused-appellant is dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W. D.C. Jayathilaka, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

jmds