==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A. 146/2010 H.C. Colombo Case No: H.C.4763/09

Randeer Liyon Siyas Alias Liyon Siyas Randeer No:247, Besline Road, Dematagoda, Colombo 09.

Defendant-Appellant Vs. Hon Attorney General Attorney General’s Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

"

C.A. 146/2010 H.C. Colombo Case No: H.C.4763/09

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

Sisira J. de Abrew,J.

Sisira J. de Abrew,J. (Acting PICA) &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

Nuwan de Silva for the Accused-Appellant.

H. I. Peris SSC. for the Respondent.

03.12.2013

********

Heard both counsel m support of their respective cases. The

accused-appellant was convicted for being in possession of 1.282 grams of

heroin and was sentenced to a term of 7 years Rigorous Imprisonment and

to pay a fine of Rs: 100,000/- carrying a default sentence of six months

Rigorous Imprisonment. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the

sentence, he has appealed to this Court. According to the facts of this case,

two Police teams from Dematagoda Police went to remove election posters

and banners of the area. While they were removing the posters, they saw

two persons walking on the road. One was caught by the Police Officers.

The other person started running after throwing his helmet. But the two

1

tti,

II\ £

~

fi.

persons had not come on a motor cycle. One Police Officer gave chase to the

person who was running and arrested. The Police Officers found heroin

inside the helmet that was thrown by him. The person who threw the

helmet is the accused-appellant in this case. The Police Officer found 5

grams of heroin inside the helmet. The Government Analyst later certified

that the net amount of heroin was 1.282 grams. The accused-appellant

making a dock statement stated that he was arrested when he was at

Jayapala's son's tailor shop. He stated that he came to this tailor shop to

get his wedding suit tailored. He further stated that Jayapala too was

arrested at the tailor shop. He took up the position that one Sanker's heroin

was introduced to him. He denied the charge. Soon after the close of the

prosecution case, the accused- appellant filed a list of witnesses. Jayapala

is one of the witnesses in the list of witnesses. Reports have been filed in

the trial Court to the effect that Jayapala was in Prison Custody. It appears

that the learned trial Judge had not taken any meaningful step to get

Jayapala produced in Court. It appears that the accused could not call

Jayapala as a witness, since he was in the custody of Prison Officers. If the

defence witness was in the custody of Prison Officers all what the accused-

appellant can do was to move Court to produce him as a witness. But since

Jayapala was not produced from the Prison Custody, accused-appellant

could not lead his evidence. The accused-appellant, when the case was

fixed for submission made an application again to summon Jayapala as a

witness. Learned trial Judge refused this application. Learned trial Judge

took up the position allowing of such an application would affect the future

proceedings. Position taken up by the accused-appellant was that he was

2

arrested at Jayapala's son's tailor shop. Thus if Jayapala was called as a

witness the accused would have been able to support the position taken

up by him in his dock statement. This opportunity was not given to the

accused-appellant. For the above reason we hold that disallowing the

application of the accused-appellant to call Jayapala as a witness who was

in the Prison Custody has caused immense prejudice to the accused-

appellant.

I.P. Bandara Gunathilaka in his evidence took up the position

that after the arrest of the accused-appellant they went to the Police Station

by a Police Jeep. But this was not stated by S.1. Sanjeewa who gave

evidence. Learned trial Judge in order to overcome the said difficulty used

the investigation notes in the LB. extracts which had not been produced at

the trial as evidence. I hold that this was a misdirection committed by the

trial Judge. Learned trial Judge is not entitled to use material that had not

been produced at the trial as evidence. When we consider the above

matters, we feel that the conviction of the accused-appellant cannot be

permitted to stand. The next point that must be considered is whether it is

fair to order a fresh trial and permit the Accused-appellant to face a new

trial. It has to be noted here that the two Police parties, went to

Dematagoda area, on the day of the incident in order to remove election

posters and banners. But I.P. Douglas had taken a weighing scale on this

day. I.P. Douglas was not available to give evidence at the trial because. He

had died prior to the commencement of the trial. This evidence was given

3

by I.P. Bandara Gunathilaka. If the Police Officers went to remove election

posters and banners, why did I.P. Douglas carry a weighing scale. There

is no answer to this question. Learned Senior State Counsel too submits

that he is unable to find an answer to this question. Learned Senior State

Counsel leaves the entire matter in the hands of Court. The position taken

up by the accused-appellant in his dock statement was suggested to the

prosecution witnesses. As we pointed out earlier the fact that he was

arrested at Jayapala's son's Tailor shop could not be corroborated as his

application to call Jayapala as a witness was disallowed. When we

consider all these matters, we feel that the evidence led by the prosecution

witnesses was not all that convincing. In deciding the question whether a

retrial should be ordered or not, I am guided by the judgment of His

Lordship Chief Justice Sansony in Queen Vs. Jayasinghe 69 N.L.R. 314

wherein His Lordships remarked thus. 'For these reasons we allow the

appeals and quash the convictions of the appellants. We have considered

whether we should order a new trial in this case. We do not take that

course, because there has been already a lapse of over three years, since

the commission of offences, and because of our own view of unreliable

nature of the accomplice's evidence on which alone with the prosecution

rests ".

The offence in this case is alleged to have been committed on

10/10/2005. Trial commenced on 17/01/2008 and was concluded on

01/04/2010. The accused-appellant was sentenced on 26/04/2010. Both

counsel admit the accused-appellant has not been released on bail after his

4

conviction. The accused-appellant has been incarcerated for a period of over

3 Y2 years. When we consider all these matters, we feel that it is

unreasonable to order a retrial. Considering all these matters, we set aside

the conviction and the sentence and acquit the accused -appellant.

Appeal allowed.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Jmrj-

5

\

II ii i1

~f t