==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA (PHC) 170/2005 PHC-KANDY-13/2004

M. Layanal Rose Fernando No: 186, St. Joseph Street Negombo.

Appellants Vs. H.I. Premawathi And Others

Respondents

CA (PHC) 170/2005 PHC-KANDY-13/2004

1

j

1 «

Before K.T. Chitrasiri, J. &

P.R. Walgama, J.

Counsel parties are absent and unrepresented i i I

Argued &

Decided on 26.01.2015

K.T. Chitrasiri, J.

When this matter was mentioned on the last occasion namely on

01.10.2014, the appellant was represented by P.N.U.

Pattiarachchi whilst the Respondent-Respondent was

represented by Ahamed Thawfeek, Attorneys-at-Law. On their

request this matter was fixed for argument for today. However

neither the parties nor their Attorneys are present in court

today. Therefore, this matter is taken up for argument in the

absence of the parties.

This is an appeal seeking to have a re-trial before the

application in the nature of habeas corpus. However, in the

learned High Court Judge in Kandy and to have the child by the

name of M.Y. Tharindu Fernando produced, it being a writ

peti tion dated 17.02.2004, filed in the High Court of Kandy,

Peti tioner-Appellant has sought inter-alia to execute orders

1

~

~ 1 i I I I

I

I

i

delivered by the District Court-Kandy and also to have an

order in respect of the custody of the said child. Such an

application cannot be entertained in an application for Writ

of Habeas Corpus particularly when an application is found

therein to implement judicial orders made in another action.

Indeed, the documents marked Pl and P6 are two decisions made

by the District judges in respect of the custody of the child

subjected to in this application. Therefore, it is clear that

the High Court has no jurisdiction to entertain this Writ

application.

Those matters have not been looked into by the learned High

Court Judge since the dismissal of the application by him had

been on the questions of procedure followed by the appellant

in filing this application.

However, having considered all those matters we are of the

view that there is no reason to interfere with the decision of

the learned High Court Judge. Accordingly, this appeal is

dismissed with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

\

P.R. Walgama, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL r; LA/-

2