==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 1154 / 2000 F

D.C. Kegalle No. 24937 / P

Kuruppuge Dharmathilake, A tthanagoda, Molagoda.

Plaintiff

Vs.

1. Menikbo Ralalage Kiribanda, (deceased) 1 a. Menikbo Ralalage Gunatilaka, 2. Kuruppuge Rambanda (deceased) 2a. B. A. Podimenike, Atthanagoda, Molagoda.

Defendants

AND NOW BETWEEN

Balasuriya Arachchilage Podimenike, Atthanagoda, Molagoda.

2a. Defendant Appellant Vs

Kuruppuge Dharmathilake, Atthanagoda, Molagoda.

Plaintiff Respondent

1. Menikbo Ralalage Kiribanda, (deceased) 1 a. Menikbo Ralalage Gunatilaka, Atthanagoda, Molagoda.

1 a.Defendant Respondent

I

1

I

BEFORE

COUNSEL

DECIDED ON

UP AL Y ABEYRA THNE, J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

Appellant - absent and unrepresented

Respondents - absent and unrepresented

01.04.2014

The Plaintiff Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the Respondent)

instituted the said action against the 1 st and 2nd Defendants in the District Court of

Kegalle seeking a judgment to partition the land described in the schedule to the

plaint.

The 1 st and 2nd Defendants have filed statement of claims seeking a

partition as prayed for in their statement of claims. The case proceeded to trial on

18 issues. After trial the learned District Judge has allowed to partition the land.

Being aggrieved by the said judgment dated 29.11.2000 the 2a Defendant

Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant) has preferred the present appeal

to this court.

I have perused the grounds of appeal set out in the petition of appeal.

The Appellant's main grievance was that the learned District Judge has failed to

consider the exclusion of lot 3 depicted in plan bearing no 2205 from the partition.

I have carefully considered the impugned judgment of the learned

District Judge and the evidence adduced at the trial. When I consider the said

!i

I

iIi ,

%

fil

J

1 I

3

evidence I am of the VIew that the learned trial judge has come to a right

conclusion considering the evidence led before court.

In the said circumstances I see no reason to interfere with the said

judgement of the learned District Judge dated 29 .1l.2000. Therefore I dismiss the

appeal of the Appellant without costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

{

f

\

r !! I I f t J .