==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN TH COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

Gode Withanage Ariyaratne alias Ariyaratne Withanage of Kadukkana, Thelijjawila.

And 3 others C.A 2023/2001 (Revision) D.C Matara 1918/P

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

Anil Gooneratne J.

INTERVENIENT -PETITIONERS

Vs.

Gode Withanage Francina of Polhindagoda, Godagama, Matara.

PLAINTIFF -RESPONDENT

Gode Withanage Aralinahamy Guruwalayawatte, Sulthanagoda, Matara.

And 3 others.

DEFENDANT -RESPONDENTS

S.A.D.S. Suraweera for the Petitioner S.N. Vijithsinghe for the lA Defendant-Respondent Rohan Sahabandu & R.M.S Bandara for the Plaintiff-Respondent

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON:

06.10.2010,11.01.20121

DECIDED ON: 15.02.2011

GOONERA TNE J.

2

This is a revision application filed by 4 Intervenient-Petitioners

in a partition suit. The corpus called 'Guruwalayahena' is in extent of about

6 acres. Interlocutory decree and final decree had been entered by the

District Court of Matara. According to the Petitioners the case had been

taken up for trial on 03.03.2000. There been no contest and only Plaintiff-

Respondent had given evidence. The learned District Judge had entered

judgment on the same date. Land in question is a co-owned land shown in

Surveyor Gunawardena's plan No. 718 (X) of 01.12.1998 as lots 1 &2.

According to the plaint (P 1) there had been 4 Defendants. This land was

originally a Crown land which was given on a crown grant on 09.04.1889 to

one Godage Wathuhamy as described in paragraph 3 of the plaint. The

devolution of tile (paragraph 3) and the evidence led at the trial

(uncontested) indicates that by deed marked 1 D 1 (1 E) 1) of 26.6.1926 Godage

Don Andiris became entitled to Yz of 69/1 09 share of the corpus.

3

The said Andiris had 6 children as disclosed in the plaint, 1 st -

4th Defendants and Bamis and Denny who died issueless. The share as

disclosed in the plaint and the evidence in favour of the 1 st -4th Defendants

being 69/218 was the entitlement of the 1 st -4th Defendants by interlocutory

and final decree. The Intervenient-Petitioners claim that Bamis did not die

issueless but was married to Dayawathie and they had 4 children (the

Petitioners in the revision application before this court).

The relief sought in this application are:

(a) to set aside the interlocutory Judgment, the Decree and the Final Decree entered

in this case,

(b) to direct the Learned District Judge, Matara to add the Petitioners as parties to

this case and for them to file their statements of claim

Perusal of the Docket I find that this is a matter which previously

came up before this court on several occasions, but the case had not been

argued and postponed for various reasons. All parties have filed Written

Submissions, and the judgment in this application is delivered on the

material placed before court by way of Written Submissions.

The Intervenient-Petitioners in their Written Submissions

state inter alia the following:

1. The case of the Petitioners is that one child of Andiris Appu (Bamis Appu)

who is alleged to have been died unmarried and issueless was in fact married

4

with issues who happen to be the Petitioners to the instant application and the

Plaintiff as well as the Defendants have acted in collusion to deprive them of

their lawful share of the land sought to be partitioned.

2. The Petitioners have produced the death certificate ofthe Barnis Appu marked

'PS' and the marriage certificate of said Barnis Appu marked 'P2' and the said

documents will clearly depicts the names of Barnis Appu.

3. On perusal of document 'P2' it will be observed that the name of the father of

the groom is given as Andiris Appu although in all the instances it is referred

to as Vithanage Barnis Appu, Vithanage Andiris Appu minus the word

'Gode'.

4. It will also be observed that documents 'P3' and 'P4' being the birth

certificates of the 1 sl and 2nd Petitioners also give the name of Barnis Appu to

be the father of the Petitioners and 'P4' gives the name of the grand father to

be Andiris Appu. In these instances too the word 'Gode' from the surname is

not given for whatever the reason.

5. In any event the Plaintiff Respondent in filing her statement of objection had

not denied the fact that the said documents relate to Barnis Appu or said

Barnis Appu referred to in the said documents is not the eldest son of Andiris

Appu who was a co-owner of the land in suit. All what she states in paragraph

7 of the statement of objection is that she was not aware ofthe whereabouts of

Barnis Appu at the time of filing the action. This statement of the Respondent

establishes the fact that she was not aware as to whether said Barnis Appu was

alive or not and as to whether he was married with issues.

The Plaintiff-Respondent complains of a delay of 9 months from

the date of judgment and failure to plead exceptional circumstances. Both

grounds are relevant and important to disentitle the Petitioners' relief. There

is no specific reference to exceptional circumstances pleaded by the

5

Petitioners. Delay is apparent. Plaintiff does not deny that Barnis Appu was

not a child of the above named 'Andiris'. Plaitiff's position is that he was

unaware of any marriage between Barnis and Dayawathie. Plaintiff-

Respondent states that Plaintiff has no objection for the share that was

allotted to the 1 st - 4th Respondents 69/218 share, being allotted to 1 st _ 4th

Respondents and Barnis Appu and Danny - 6 children of Andiris

The learned Counsel for the substituted 1st Defendant-

Respondent also has no objection to Plaintiff's above suggestion as referred

to in the Written Submissions.

I am also of the view that there is no proof that the land to the

south of the corpus belongs to Andiris. Licenced Surveyor state that the land

that was surveyed was the same land in the deed, with slight variation.

When I examine the Petition filed in this Court only the Birth

Certificates of the 1 st & 2nd Petitioners have been produced marked P3 & P4.

The Birth Certificates of 3rd & 4th Petitioners were not made available before

this court. Why is that?

However this court could intervene by way of revision to

prevent a miscarriage of Justice. There is no specific denial of Barnis being a

child of Andiris. Plaintiff and 1 st t Defendant (Intervenient) merely plead that

they are unaware of any marriage between Barnis and Dayawathie. I do not

'I ! 6

think legal entitlement of any party to property should be denied, merely on

delay, and failure to specifically plead exceptional circumstances. Petitioners

seems to have been kept out of the partition suit for some reason unknown to

the original court.

In Gnanapandithan vs. Balanayagam 1998(1) SLR 391, Appeal

to the Supreme Court G.P.S de Silva C.J held .... The circumstances were

strongly indicative of a collusive action. In the result, there was a

miscarriage of Justice in the case, and the Appellants were entitled to a

revision of the judgment of the District Judge notwithstanding the delay in

seeking relief. The question whether delay is fatal to an application in

revision depends on the facts and circumstance of the case.

Appeal court could intervene by way of revision, to prevent a

miscarriage of justice. The powers of revision and restitio in-integrum of the

Appeal Court have survived all the legislation that has been enacted up to

date. Somawathie vs. Madawela 1983 (2) SLR 15.

When I look at all the circumstances of this case I am only

inclined to grant relief in terms of sub paragraph 'b' of the prayer to the

petition, subject to conditions. (no statement of claim of them need be filed)

The Original Court Judge need to be satisfied only on the question that the 4

Intervenient-Petitioners are the children of Bamis and Dayawathie. Only

•

7

two Birth Certificates are filed in this application. The learned District Judge

is directed to inquire into this matter only. On being satisfied that the

Intervenient-Petitioners are children of Barnis, share of 69/218 already

allotted to 1 st - 4th Defendants could be allotted to the four Petitioners also,

and necessary adjustments could be made, accordingly, by the District

Judge.

Application allowed in terms of sub paragraph 'b' of the prayer

to the petition subject to directions by this court. Registrar of this court is

directed to forward this Judgment to the Registrar of the respective District

Court forthwith.

Application allowed without costs.

(5't:fl Gv>~

JUDGE OF T~FAPPEAL

'~ I ! I I I