==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA PHC APN 159/2011 H. C. Kegalle No. 3978/Rev

G .A.P. Indika Ruwan Pathirana No. 88, Watadeka, Nawana.

Accused - Applicant - Petitioner- Petitioner Vs. 1. The Officer in Charge, Police Station, Warakapola.

Complainant – Respondent-Respondent - Respondent 2. The Attorney General, Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent - Respondent

t

C.A. (PHC) APN 159//2011 H.C. Kegalle Case No. 3978/Rev.

M.C. Warakapola No. 58368

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided

A. W .A. Salam, J.

A.W.A. Salam, J. &

Sunil Rajapakshe, J.

Indunil Bandara for the Accused-

Petitioner.

Anoopa de Silva S.S.C. for the Respondent

10.05.2013.

1

This is a revision application made against the order of

confiscation of a vehicle used in the transport of timber.

The facts briefly are that the accused-petitioner who was

charged in the Magistrate's Court for transporting timber violating

Section 24 (b) of the Forest Ordinance tendered an unconditional plea

of guilt and was convicted and in addition the vehicle used in the

transportation was confiscated.

Learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that the

accused did not have the knowledge that he was transporting the type

2

of timber that required a valid permit and in any event as he had

transported fire wood, the learned Magistrate should have considered

it as an offence which was of trivial nature and not proceeded to

confiscate vehicle. Learned Counsel further submitted the judgment

in Fari.s vs. The Officer-in-Charge, Police Station

Galenbindumuwewa and Another [1992] 1 SLR page 167 in

support of his case.

The learned Senior State Counsel on the other hand

submitted that the question of the accused being called upon to show

cause against the confiscation does not strictly arise in this type of

cases as the owner of the vehicle and the accused is one and the

same person and that he had pleaded guilty to the charge from which

he is not entitled to resile with a view to avoid the confiscation of the

vehicle. I am in full agreement with the submissions of the leaned

Senior State Counsel that the plea of guilt tendered stand in the

way of the accused to challenge the confiscation. The authorities

cited by the learned Counsel for the accused-petitioner has no

bearing on this question as the case cited by him deals with the

confiscation of the vehicle belonging to the 3rd parties. The leaned

Senior State Counsel brought to our attention that the timber

transported was Mahogani fire wood.

3

Taking all these matters into consideration, I am not

inclined to vary the order of confiscation made by the learned

Magistrate. The impugned order does not appear to be inconsistent

with the law applicable. As such, I have no option but to dismiss the

revision application.

Revision application dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Sunil Raiapakshe, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

/mds