==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DECMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA Application No. 03/2013

01. Rodamas Holdings (Pvt)Ltd, No:688, Aluthmawatha Road, Colombo 15. 02. K .Gnanasekaran, No:688, Aluthmawatha Road, Colombo 15

Petitioners Vs. 1. Jagath Jayaweera Director General of Customs, 2. D.A.I Daranagama Director of Customs, Central Investigation Unit (CIB Unit), 3. Saman De Silva, Deputy Director of Customs, Central Investigation Unit (CIB Unit), 4. Mailwaganam Paskaran, Deputy Director of Customs, Inquiring Officer 5. M.S.A. Hassan Superintendent of Customs Prosecuting officer 6. N.D.K. Seneviratne Banda, Superintendent of Customs Prosecuting officer,

7. V. Wathsala Nanayakkara Superintendent of Customs, Central Investigation Unit (CIB Unit), Prosecuting officer, All of whom are from: Sri Lanka Customs Department, Customs Headquarters, No: 40, Charmers query, Main Street, Colombo 11. 8. Daisang International (Private) Limited, No: 81, Averiwatta Road, Handala, Wattala. 9. Wee Tiong (S) PTE Limited No:64-D, Kallang Pudding Road, 02-00 Wee Tiong Building, Singapore 349323 10. Seylan Bank PLC, No:90, Galle Road, Colombo 03. 11. Han. Attorney General Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

Respondents

C.A. Writ 03/2013

Before

Counsel

Decided on

S. Sriskandarajah J. (P/CA) & P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J.

K. Deekiriwewa with L.M.Deekiriwewa and

Mrs. M.K. Herath for the Petitioners.

Dias Wickramasinghe DSG with Manohara Jayasinghe SC

for the respondents.

Sanjeeva Jayawardena PC with Senany Dayaratne &

Sandamali Chandrasekera for lOth Respondent.

Faiz Musthapa PC with Illiyas for the 9th Respondent instd.

by Nithi Murugesu & Associates.

23.01.2013.

S. Sriskandarajah J. (P/CA).

Heard Counsel in support of this application and heard Learned

President's Counsel for the 9th and lOth Respondents. The 1st to the 7th

Respondents inform Court that they have no objection in issuing notice but the

Learned President Counsel who is appearing for 9th and lOth Respondents

oppose to the issuance of notice.

2 1! I; The issue before this court raised by the 1st and 2nd Petitioners are that the

Customs inquiry commenced, conducted and concluded on a wrong basis as the

Customs duties are properly paid and the goods were released, as such the

Customs has no right to inquire into the matter. The Learned President Counsel

who is appearing for the lOth respondent brought to the notice of court that the

inquiry was under Section 119 of the Customs Ordinance and that was based on

submitting false documents for the clearance of the said goods. The false

documents were obtained and submitted to the

Customs and these documents were obtained from the bank without due

payment to the exporter. The documents obtained from the banks on DPP terms

that is documents should be released on payment but the said documents were

obtained without due payment. The 2nd Petitioner had made a confession in the

investigating proceedings and also has given evidence in the Customs inquiry

that he is involved in the removing of the said documents fraudulently.

The Learned Counsel for the Petitioner submitted that the said confession

and evidence was obtained by force by the Customs . But the Petition and the

Affidavit submitted by the Petitioners in this Court has not stated that the said

confession or the evidence given by the 2nd Petitioner was obtained by force.

3

In these circumstances, the Petitioner has not come to this court with clean

hands and therefore this Court refuses to issue notice. t! I

PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

Mm/-.