==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

, .

f \ IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for a

mandate in the nature of writ of certiorari in

terms of Article 140 of the Constitution of

the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

Lanka.

*******

1. Wasalamuni Arachchilage Senaviratne

Ambahera, Uhumeeya.

2. Dodamgoda Gamage Ajantha

S. Wijethilake

Malini Villa, Agaragama, Makulpotha.

3. Rajapakse Withanalage Sunil Chandrasiri

No. 179, Akkara Hathara, Nelawa

Ganewatta, Nikadalupotha.

4. Weerasinghe

Gamini Bandara

Mudiyanselage

Beligahawatta, Hmbara, Uhumeeya.

Nimal

5. Sudasing Manchanayake Appuhamilage

Jinendra Dharmapriya Manchanayake

Barigoda, Nakkawatta.

6. Keselwatte Yapa Wasantha Edirisinghe

No. 02, Opposite the Hospital

Ambanpola.

7. Palle Gedara Cyril Wijesiri

No. 14, Ranawiru Uyana

Pallekale.

PETITIONERS 1

ii

l

1 1 I 1 I I 1 n I ! I I i

~ I I i I

, ,

(.A. (Writ) Application No.307/2009

2

Vs

1. National Youth Service Council

P.O. Box 17, Maharagama.

2. Bashwara Senaka Gunaratne

Director General/Chairman

National Youth Service Council

P.O. Box 17, Maharagama.

3. S.P.N. Cyril Somawickrama

Director-Administration

National Youth Service Council

P.O. Box 17, Maharagama.

4. Piyadasa Kandamby

Director -Development

National Yourth Service Council

P.O. Box 17, Maharagama

5. R.M.K.U. Ratnayake

Assistant Director-Planning

Ministry of Youth Affairs

420, Bauddhaloka Mawatha

Colombo 07.

6. Ridley Jayasinghe

Deputy Director

National Institute of Social

Development

191, Dharmapala Mawatha

Colombo 07.

7. P. Koralegedara

Assistant Director-Banking and

Finance

Samurdhi Authority of Sri Lanka

4th Floor, Sethsiripaya

1 ij ( I 1 ,

3

Battaramulla.

8. C.K. Herath

Internal Auditor

National Youth Service Council

P.O. Box 17, Maharagama.

9. D.D. Nandasiri

Council Director

National Youth Service Council

P.O. Box 17, Maharagama.

10. Sarath Kodikara

National Youth Council,

District Office, Monaragala.

11. Malith Peiris

National Youth Council

District Office, Monaragala.

12. Kariyakarawana

National Youth Council

District Office, Maharagama.

13. Saman Ekanayake

National Youth Council

District Office, Chilaw.

14. M.B. Sarath Chandrapala

National Youth Council

District Office, Maharagama.

15. M.D. Gunasena

National Youth Council

District Office, Anuradhapura

16. D.J. Senarathne

National Youth Council

District Office, Maharagama.

17. Shantha Wimal Abeywickrama.

National Youth Council

District Office, Maharagama.

1 1 I I I I i I

4

18. Sarath Ukwatta

National Youth Council

District Office, Maharagama.

19. Rathnasiri

National Youth Council

District Office, Gampaha.

20. Saman Abeywardena Bandara

National Youth Council

District Office, Maharagama.

21. AAN.D. Sampayo

National Youth Council

District Office, Maharagama.

22. Chandana Uyangoda

National Youth Council

District Office, Maharagama.

23. Kapila Vi raj

National Youth Council

District Office, Maharagama.

24. Thushara Wickramarachchi

National Youth Council

District Office, Maharagama.

25. Ranjith Widanapathirana

National Youth Council

District Office, Ratnapura.

26. AP.A. Gafoor

National Youth Council

District Office, Ampara.

27. L.G. Nandalatha

National Youth Council

District Office, Ampara.

28. Senadheera Gunarathne

National Youth Council

District Office, Maharagama.

5

29. Ishwararaja

National Youth Council

District Office, Batticaloa.

30. Lal Hemantha

National Youth Council

District Office, Maharagama.

31. Anil Siri Herath

National Youth Council

District Office

Nugaliyadda, Kandy.

32. Reginald Ranasinghe

National Youth Council

District Office, Badulla.

33. H.K. Karunadhipathi

National Youth Council

District Office, Maharagama.

34. Sisira Senarathane

National Youth Council

District Office, Vavuniya.

35. Kalarani

National Youth Council

District Office, Batticaloa.

36. D.G. Kanthi Jayatissa

National Youth Council

District Office, Kegalle.

37. Mahesh Chandrasekara

National Youth Council

District Office, Kalutara.

38. Sunil Pathmasiri Jayamaha

National Youth Council

District Office, Maharagama.

39. Munavar

National Youth Council

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

6

District Office, Mannar.

40. Vinodhini Shriminon

National Youth Council

District Office, Jaffna.

41. Thilak Dharmakeerthi

National Youth Council

District Office. Mathale.

RESPONDENTS

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

: Chula Bandara with

M.L.K de Silva for the Petitioners

Faisza Marker with Thushani

Machado for the 1 st to 4th and 5th

to 9th Respondents.

Viran Corea with Chaya Sri

Nammuni S.C. for the 10th to 41 st

Respondents.

Respondents.

: 23rd October, 2014

: 28th September, 2015.

Oeepali Wijesundera J.

The petitioners have filed this application seeking a writ of

certiorari to quash the appointments of tenth to forty first respondents by

the first respondent on the recommendations made by second to ninth

respondents as District Youth Service Officers.

The petitioners who are Grade I Youth Service Officers have

applied for the post of District Youth Service officers and were called for

Interviews by the respondents. The first respondent is a council

established in terms of the National Youth Service Act No. 69 of 1979.

The second respondent has been appointed as Chairman and Director

General of the said council in terms of Sec. 8 (1) (a) of the said Act. The

third to ninth respondents are members of the interview panel.

The petitioners have forwarded their application in response to

internal circulars dated 05/07/2007 and 15/09/2008 by the first

respondent both circulars are marked as P9 and P10. The petitioners

have gone for the interview and have not been selected. The petitioners

stated the interview panel only had one marking sheet on which they

noted the marks given to them contrary to the practice of every member

7

I 1 I

having a separate marking sheet. The petitioners stated that they

requested for a marking scheme prior to the interview, the second

respondent indicated that the marks would be allocated according to the

circular P10. The petitioners stated that the tenth to forty first

respondents were promoted subsequent to the interview without

publicizing and scheme of marking and that the tenth to forty first

respondents are not promoted according to merit but based on

extraneous factors.

The petitioners stated that prior to the interview the first to ninth

respondents did not have an approved marking scheme. The marking

scheme adopted by the panel was not approved by the first

respondent's council. Therefore the appointments of tenth to forty first

respondents are arbitrary, capricious, unreasonable and irregular and

contrary to accepted procedure. The petitioners stated on the facts

stated above they are entitled in law to seek a mandate in the nature of

writ of certiorari to quash the appointment of tenth to forty first

respondents.

The council for the first to ninth respondents stated that the

candidates who secured thirty two marks were promoted to the post of

District Youth officers and the documents marked as 1 R3 contains the

8

1 I

J

1 1 I

..

marks collectively determined by the members of the interview panel.

The respondents stated that the marking scheme was laid down in the

first respondent memorandum bearing no. 19 of 2008 marked as 1R4

and 1 R5. He stated that marks were given strictly in accordance with

1R4.

Answering the sixth respondent's claim that he was given a letter

of appointment to cover up duties of the District Youth Officer which

gave him legitimate expectation the respondents stated that the said

letter does not confirm suitability for the said post and as such it could

not have created legitimate expectations for the petitioners to be

appointed as District Youth Service Officers.

The respondents further submitted that the petitioners voluntarily

applied for the said post and as such acquiesced to the marking scheme

laid down in 1 R4 and as such are not entitled to challenge the said

marking scheme.

The respondents submitted that the correct procedure was

followed when tenth to forty first respondents were recruited. He stated

that the interview board was properly constituted and marks were given

9

,

ft

tif

~

1 · ·

I

strictly on the marking scheme 1 R4 and that 1 R3 mark sheet contains

the marks collectively determined by the members.

The respondents stated that the instant application is not properly

constituted and that the petitioners have not produced the decision of

the first respondent appointing the tenth to forty first respondents which

the petitioners are seeking to quash. Citing the iudgment in S.M.

Mangala Pushpakumara Vs Air Chief Marshal Roshan Gunathilake

and others (CA Minutes 2810312012) stated that it was held in this

case that court cannot quash a document containing the decision which

was not before court. Respondents stated that the application of the

petitioners is not properly constituted and it should be dismissed. The

respondent stated only the third petitioner has affirmed to the facts

contained in the petition which shows that the petitioners have not

complied with rule third 3 - 1 of the Supreme Court rules 1990.

The petitioners are seeking to quash the appointment of tenth to

forty first respondents by the first respondent. In their prayer to the

petitioner the relief sought is to quash the appointment of tenth to forty

first respondents, no document is marked and sought to be quashed.

Petitioners' argument was that the said interview panel did not have

individual marking sheets. But on perusal of 1 R3 it can be said that

10

• •

there was a marking sheet to which all the members of the board have

signed. This is a common marking sheet, 1R4 is the marking scheme.

Therefore it can be said that the scheme of marking was in accordance

with the memorandum marked as 1 R5. The candidates who secured

thirty two marks were promoted to the post of Youth Services Officers.

The petitioners are seeking to quash the appointments of tenth to

forty first respondents their petition is supported by one affidavit given

by the third petitioner where as the other petitioners have not affirmed to

the contents of the petition.

The petitioners stated that they had legitimate expectations when

they applied and was called for an interview of getting promoted. Just

because a person was called for an interview one can not say he had

legitimate expectation of getting the job. In the circumstances the

petitioners could not have had a legitimate expectation to be appointed

to the said post by merely presenting themselves for the interview.

The petitioners have not stated anywhere in the petition or during

the course of their argument any particulars of why they believe that the

appointments of the tenth to forty first respondents were not based on

11

1 1

J

1 I

1

1 1

• •

merit. The relief sought by the petitioners lacks precision and clarity and

is outside the scope of article 140 of the Constitution.

The petitioners have failed to show court that the said

appointments have been arbitrary capricious irregular, unreasonable

and contrary to law.

For the afore stated reasons the application of the petitioners is

refused with costs fixed at Rs. 50,0001=.

(

~t~rJ.,

JUDGE ~ THE COURT OF APPEAL

12 f

~

t

rt