==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA 562/98 (F)

D.C. Matale Case No. L 4101

: A. W.A. Salam, J.

1. Naranpanawa Gedera Karunadasa

2. Naranpanawe Gedera Gunawathie

Both of: 42 Mile Post, Moragollewa,

Dambulu Oya, Dambulla.

Defendant-Appellants.

vs.

Helle Liyanaarachichige Don Lambert

Seneviratne, 'Ruwan' Stores, Moragollewa,

Dambulu Oya, Dambulla.

Plaintiff-Respondent.

Before

Counsel : W.D. Weeraratne for the Defendant-Appellant and Priyantha

Alagiyawanna for the Plaintiff-Respondent. Argued on : 22.11.2012

Written Submissions tendered on: 31.05.2011.

Decided on : 30.04.2013

1

A W A Salam, J

T

he defendant-appellants have preferred this appeal to

have the judgment dated 29 May 1998 of the learned

district judge set aside. The appeal came to be filed upon the

conclusion of a suit filed by the plaintiff-respondent against

the defendant-appellant praying inter alia for a declaration of

title to the property described in schedule B to the plaint

together with similar declaration that the property described in

schedule C to the plaint is part and parcel of the land which is

described in schedule B to the plaint. The plaintiff-respondent

further sought an order of ejectment of the

defendant-appellants from the subject matter of the action and

damages.

The plaintiff-respondent in his plaint categorically pleaded that

the defendant-appellants was the owner of the subject matter

of the action at one point of time and it was sold to him by

deed No 1125 dated 14 December 1981 attested by B.S Perera,

Notary Public. The land that was thus sold to the

plaintiff-respondent is in in extent of 3 acres and identified as

being situated towards the northern side of the land described

1n schedule A to the plaint. For this reason the

plaintiff-respondent stated that he came to possess the said

land described in schedule B. There was no dispute that the

defendant-appellants owned the balance portion of the said

land towards the south of the larger land. Since the common

2

boundary between the land of the plaintiff- respondent and

that of the defendant -appellants was uncertain, the

plaintiff-respondent took steps to flx the common boundary

but without success. The several attempts by the

plaintiff-respondent to flx common boundary amicably with

the defendant-appellants were also turned out to be futile as

the defendant-appellants while claiming a land in extent of 1

acre along the southern boundary of the land had obstructed

to flx the boundary. The portion of the plaintiff-respondent's

land said to be encroached by the defendant-appellants is

described in schedule C to the plaint.

The defendant-appellant filed answer admitting that they had

by the said deed No 1125 transferred 3 acres of the said land

to the plaintiff-respondent. However, they took up the position

that although the said deed referred to an extent of 3 acres,

the land sold to the plaintiff-respondent is restricted to the

land which is located within the boundaries described in the

said deed 1125 and therefore the defendant-appellants have

not sold any property beyond the said boundaries.

Quite importantly, when the matter came up for trial in the

lower court, two admissions were recorded at the instance of

both parties and thereafter evidence was led in relation to

issue the 8 issues of which 1 to 5 were raised on behalf of the

plaintiff-respondent and the rest (6 to 8) on

defendant-appellants' behalf.

At the trial the plaintiff gave evidence and called M.

Rajahsekaram, licensed surveyor to testify on his behalf. At the

conclusion of the plaintiff-respondent's case documents

marked P 1, X and Y were produced and the case of the

plaintiff-respondent was closed. The appellant however chose

not to give evidence or to produce any documents. The learned

district judge thereafter delivered his judgment granting relief

to the plaintiff-respondent as prayed for in the plaint.

As far as the admissions recoded at the trial are concerned it is

important to note that there had been no dispute that the

defendant-appellants were the owners of the property

described in schedule A to the plaint in extent of 6 acres. The

other admission was that by deed No 1125 the

defendant-appellants sold a portion of land from and out of the

said 6 acres to the plaintiff-respondent to constitute an extent

of 3 acres which is more fully described in schedule B to the

plaint.

The defendant-appellants had inter alia taken up the position

that the plaintiff-respondent has purchased the subject matter

without a plan and if there be any deficiency in the extent, the

plaintiff-respondent should bear consequences and in any

event the action of the plaintiff-respondent is prescribed 1n

terms of section 10 of the Prescription Ordinance.

....I -..-t 0 ..-t o::t

Q)

n:l +"' n:l ~ u 0 u.. 00 en ~ 1.0 Ll) 6 4

As regards the question of deficiency the plaintiff-respondent

contended that by P1 the defendant-appellants have in

unambiguous language transferred in the name of the

plaintiff-respondent a portion of land in extent of 3 acres. It is

further submitted that in the schedule to deed No 1125 the

eastern, northern and western boundaries of the said land are

clearly fixed except the southern boundary which has been

described as rest of the said land. He further submits that

deed marked as P1 deals with an extent of exactly 3 acres. In

the circumstances learned counsel for the plaintiff-respondent

submitted that his client had purchased from the

defendant-appellants a land which is in extent of 3 acres with

specific boundaries and the mere absence of a plan should not

be a ground to deprive the plaintiff-respondent to obtain a

declaration of title to 3 acres from and out of a larger land

admitted to have belonged to the defendant-appellants at one

point of time.

As a matter of fact the absence of plan at the time of the

plaintiff-respondent having purchased a definite area of 3

acres from the northern portion from and out of the larger

land, owned by the defendant appellants should not stand in

the way of plaintiff-respondent's right to obtain a declaration of

title to the land in extent of 3 acres.

As was urged on behalf of the plaintiff-respondent, if he is

denied the relief on the ground that there was no plan and the

5

max1ms zn pari delicto potior est conditio defendentis (the

defendants position is superior if the culpability is equal) is

applicable, it would end up in a great injustice. In the first

place to purchase a property without a plan is no offence.

Equally the plaintiff-respondent is not guilty of negligence to

apply the maxim in favour of the defendant-appellants.

Therefore the maxim in pari delicto potior est conditio

defendentis has no application to the present case.

Taking into consideration the fact that the

defendant-appellants had sold the plaint-respondent a portion

of land from the larger land which he owned at one point of

time giving the extent specifically as 3 acres describing 3

boundaries, I am of the view that the learned trial judge was

correct in declaring the plaintiff-respondent as the owner of

the corpus. Even assuming that the maxim cited above 1s

applicable, yet this is a fit case where the maxim could be

relaxed for the plaintiff-respondent was not at fault 1n

purchasing rights without a plan.

The plaintiff-respondent has purchased the property 1n

question on 14 December 1981. He has filed the action on 11

January 1990. Since the action had been instituted after 9

years from the date of the said deed, the action cannot be said

to have prescribed in terms of section 10 of the Prescription

Ordinance.

....I -.-t 0 .-t '<t

Q) "' ....

"' ~ u Cl u.. 00 en -N ~ Lfl 5 6

Even otherwise as the defendant-appellants had not

admittedly possessed the land in question for 10 years, as is

evident from the deed on which he has sold his rights to the

plaintiff-respondent, it cannot be said that the

plaintiff-respondent had lost the right to the property in

question for non-user for 9 years.

Quite surprisingly, the defendant-appellants in the answer had

failed to take up the position that the action of the

plaintiff-respondent is prescribed in law. They neither raised

an issue as to the question of prescription. The issue with

regard to plea of prescription has been raised for the first time

by the defendant-appellants in their written submissions.

In the case of Brampy Appuhamy Vs Gunasekara 50 NLR 253

Basnayaka J (as his Lordship was then) held that where the

effect of prescription Ordinance is merely to limit the time

within which an action may be brought, the court will not take

the statute into account unless it is expressly pleaded by way

of defence. This principle was later followed in the case of

Gnananathan Vs Premewardena 1999 (3) Sri Lanka Law

Report 301 where it was held that for salutary reasons lest all

the basic rules of law particularly that of the rule of Audi

Alteram Partem that if a party to an action intends to raise the

plea of prescription it is obligatory on his part to plead that in

his pleadings.

....J -M 0 M o::t ~

Ill ... Ill ~ u 0 u. 00 en -N 1.0 Ll') 5 7

In the circumstances, it is my considered v1ew that the

judgement of the learned district judge is faultless and calls for

no intervention of this court by the exercise of appellate

jurisdiction. As such this appeal stands dismissed subject to

costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

NR/-

8