==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA Writ Application No. 37/2010

In the matter of an application for a Mandate in the nature ofa Writ of Certiorari under and in terms of Article 140 of the Constitution

Corporal T. W.G. Wijayalal "Wikasitha" Dunkoratuwa Bandaththara Thihagoda

Petitioner Vs.

o 1. Air Commodore C.P.Welikala

President, District Court Martial Air Force Head Quarters, Colombo 02

02. Wing Commander P. Ranasinghe Member, District Court Martial Air Force Head Quarters, Colombo 02

03. Wing Commander P.B. Liyanage, Member, District Court Martial Air Force Head Quarters, Colombo 02

04. Squadron Leader J.M.R.S.Jayasundera Member, District Court Martial Air Force Head Quarters, Colombo 02

05. Squadron Leader N. Sapugasthenna Member, District Court Martial Air Force Head Quarters, Colombo 02

1

1 J , I I I I I

\ I I i

I I

BEFORE

COUNSEL

06. Wing Commander R.G.C.D. Ravihansa Waiting Member, District Court Martial Air Force Head Quarters, Colombo 02

07. Wing Commander S.T.R. Devasiri Waiting Member, District Court Martial Air Force Head Quarters, Colombo 2

08. Squadron Leader N.H.D.N. Dias, Waiting Member, District Court Martial Air Force Head Quarters, Colombo 02

09. Squadron Leader G.T.K. Amarasena, Waiting Member, District Court Martial Air Force Head Quarters, Colombo 02

10. Group Captain A.D. Gamachari Judge Advocate Air Force Head Quarters, Colombo 02

II.Air Marshal W.D.R.M.J. Goonetileke

Commander of the Sri Lanka Air Force Air Force Head Quarters, Colombo 02

11 A. Air Marshal K.A. Gunatilleke, Commander 0 the Sri Lanka Air Force Air Force Head Quarters, Colombo 02

K. T. CHITRASIRI, J. &

L.T.B. DEHIDENIYA, J.

Respondents

Saliya Peiris with A.Ratnasiri for the Petitioner

Priyantha Nawana, D.S.G. for the Respondents

2

\i

,) 1,

JIr

ARGUED ON 24.02.2015 and 10.08.2015

WRITTEN 01.04.2015 by the Petitioner SUBMISSIONS FILED ON 27.03.2015 by the Respondents

DECIDED ON 10.09.2015

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J.

The Petitioner was employed as a Corporal in the Sri Lanka Air Force

and at the time the impugned decision was made, he was attached to Air

Force Base in Vavunia. Whilst serving at the Vavunia camp, he was charged

on three counts under the Air Force Act before a District Court Martial. The

three counts upon which he was charged is found in the Documents marked

PIa, Plb and PIc, annexed to the petition filed in this Court.

The first count referred to in the charge sheet relates to the Petitioner

having contravened an official order committing an offence punishable

under Section 102 (1) of the Air Force Act and the second count relates to

the Petitioner been under the influence of liquor during duty hours

committing an offence punishable under Section 102 (1) of the Air Force

Act. The third count pertains to an act of opening fire with a T 56 weapon

with the intention of causing fear and thereby committing an offence under

Section 341 of the Penal Code read with Section 132 (a) of the Air Force

Act.

3

There had been a full scale trial against the petitioner before the Court

Martial which comprised of 15t to 5th Respondents. Finally, the District

Court Martial found the Petitioner guilty of the 2nd and the 3rd counts and

was acquitted from count 1 referred to in the charge sheet. Findings of the

Court Martial are found in the Document marked P5 filed with the Petition.

Being aggrieved by the aforesaid findings of the Court Martial, the

Petitioner came to this Court praying for a mandate in the nature of a Writ of

Certiorari to have the findings of the District Court Martial, quashed.

In the statement of objections, respondents having answered each and

every paragraph of the petition have taken up a preliminary objection as

well. The preliminary objection so raised is found in Paragraph 3 of the

statement of objections dated 14th June 2010. In that paragraph 3, the

respondents have stated that the petitioner is not entitled in law to have and

maintain this application for the reason:

1) that he Petitioner has absented himself from duty from the i h

January 2010 without obtaining leave from the Sri Lanka Air

force.

2) that the Petitioner has been guilty of suppreSSIOn and

mis-representation of material facts by wrongfully asserting that he

is presently (at the time the application was filed in this Court)

serving in Sri Lanka Air Force Base, Katunayake.

This Court decided to consider the matters pertaining to the aforesaid

preliminary objection along with the matters pertaining to the mam

4

application since the matter concerning preliminary objection involves even

the facts of the case. Accordingly, both Counsel were heard in support of

their respective cases.

I will first advert to the matters concerning the preliminary objection

to ascertain whether there is merit in that objection raised by the learned

DSG. In Para 2 of the Affidavit dated 18th January 2010 which was deposed

to by the Petitioner, he has stated that he had been a Corporal serving in the

Sri Lanka Air Force at that point of time, namely the date on which he has

affirmed the said affidavit. It is the basis upon which the rest of the

paragraphs in the Affidavit also had been set out and drafted. In Paragraph

11 of that same affidavit, he has further stated thus:

"] state that on or about 15th January 2010 while] was away from the

Camp, ] became aware that the Court Martial had imposed the

following sentence on me.

• Count 2 - Detention of 14 days in the Barracks

• Count 3 - One year imprisonment & dismissal from service.

] state that upto date ] have not received the written notice of the

sentence. ] seek that Your Lordships be pleased to direct the 1 t h

respondent to submit the same to Your Lordships' Court. "

Upon a careful reading of the contents in the aforesaid paragraphs 3

and 11 in the affidavit, the obvious impression that a reasonable person may

get is that the Petitioner had been in the active service and working in the

Air Force up to the date that this application was filed and never been

absented from duty without prior notice.

5

Il

1

~

However, in Paragraph 3 of the statement of objections of the

respondents, it is clearly stated that the Petitioner was absent from duty

without obtaining leave from i h January 2010 onwards. Such a material fact

had not been disclosed in the petition of the petitioner. In paragraph 9 of the

same statement of objections, it is also stated that the conclusion of the

proceedings of the Court Martial including the award and promulgation of

the sentence was impeded due to the absence of the petitioner. In that

statement of objections, it is also stated that the Petitioner has not even given

any notice to the authorities of his failure to report for work before he

absented himself. The petitioner has not formally obtained leave either.

Admittedly, on the 2nd of December 2009, the Petitioner was

convicted by the Court Martial. Upon a person being convicted by the

District Court Martial, it is a requirement under the regulations to confirm

the said conviction and then to pass the sentence accordingly by the

authority having the power under Section 64 of the Air Force Act. [Section

63 (1) of the Air Force Act] Upon such a confirmation by the said

authority, any officer or airman has the right to forward a petition for relief,

to the confirming authority under Rule 140 of the Regulations made under

the Air Force Court Martial (General and District) Regulations. Thereafter,

Rule 142 of the said Regulations comes into play and it provides to

promulgate the conviction and the sentence.

In this instance, promulgation of the conviction and the sentence

imposed on the Petitioner was prevented due to the absence of the Petitioner.

He has kept away from duty without permission being obtained. He has even

failed to inform the authorities or the Court Martial of his absence. Such

6

tI!

F t !

conduct of the petitioner was the reason for not promulgating the conviction

and the sentence. Looking at those circumstances, it may also lead to think

that the petitioner has come to this court prematurely without waiting for the

promulgation of the conviction and the sentence.

Be that as it may, the matters discussed hereinbefore clearly show that

the Petitioner has failed to disclose the facts and circumstances of the case in

the proper manner for this Court to understand properly the grievance that he

has complained of even though those were well within his knowledge.

Moreover, the manner in which the petitioner has presented his case in his

petition to this Court shows that he has purposely suppressed material facts

to Court having been kept away from work. His absence was the reason that

made the Court Martial for not promulgating the conviction and the

sentence. It is a material fact to the incident alleged by the petitioner. Had he

disclosed all those material facts to Court, especially his absence without

permission, this matter would have taken a different line. Furthermore, the

manner in which the Petitioner has stated the facts of the case in his petition,

indicate that the Petitioner was making an attempt to misrepresent the

material facts of the case to this Court.

In a Writ Application such as this, it is necessary that the person who

makes the application should come to Court with uberrima fides.

Accordingly, it is necessary for such a person to divulge all material facts to

court. Also, such a person should not misrepresent when making an

application seeking to have a mandate in the nature of a writ. This position

of law is adverted to in the case of Siddeek vs. J acolyn Seneviratne. [1984

(1) S L R 83] In that decision it was held thus:

7

"It {was} necessary at this stage to bear in mind that certiorari {was}

a discretionary remedy. (see Wade) 'Wade' Administrative Law: 5th

Ed. (1982) 546, 591. As de Smith says in his work 'Judicial Review

of Administrative Action' 4th Ed. (1980) p.404:

'Thus, certiorari is a discretionary remedy and maybe withheld if the conduct of the applicant, or it would seem the nature of

error does not justifY judicial intervention. "

In Jayaweera v. Asst. Commissioner of Agrarian Services

Ratnapura and Others [1996 (2) S.L.R. 70 at 73] Jayasuriya J., held that a

petitioner who was seeking relief in an application for the issue of a writ of

certiorari is not entitled to relief as a matter of right or as a matter of routine.

Even if he is entitled to relief, still the Court had discretion to deny him

relief having regard to his conduct. Also, see the decisions in Mendis vs.

Karannagoda and Others, rCA (Writ) Application No. 444/2007, Court of

Appeal Minutes dated 28. 02. 2008] Alponso Appuhamy V.Hettiarachchi,

[77 NLR 131] Dilan Perera V. Rajitha Senaratne, [2000 (2) S L R 79]

Dahanayake V. Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation Ltd. [2005 (1) S L R

67]

The observance of uberrima fides and the adherence to the

requirement of full and frank disclosure are, thus, held to be sine quo non in

applications for prerogative writs. As mentioned hereinbefore, the facts of

this case clearly show that the Petitioner has failed to disclose fully and in a

fair manner of the material facts of the case. Above all, it is seen that the

Petitioner has willfully misrepresented the facts of the case. Therefore, I am

8

of the opinion that this Court, under those circumstances, is not in a position

to exercise its Writ Jurisdiction in favour of the petitioner.

For the aforesaid reasons, the preliminary objection raised by the

learned DSG is upheld and accordingly, the petition of the petitioner stands

dismissed. Now that this Court has decided not to grant relief to the

Petitioner considering the Preliminary Objection taken up by the

Respondents, it is not necessary for this Court to look at the merits of the

main matter.

For the reasons set out hereinbefore, this application of the Petitioner

is dismissed. Circumstances of the case do not warrant making an order for

costs.

Application dismissed

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

L. T.B.DEHIDENIYA, J

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

9

i , I ! i i (

~ t

I