==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

Case No. CA (WRIT) 560/11

In the matter of an Application for

Mandates in the nature of Writs of

Certiorari & Prohibition in terms of

Article 140 of the Constitution of the

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

Lanka.

CTV Creations Pvt Ltd.

31/1/ A, Gilfred Crescent

Colombo 7.

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. V.B.P.K. Weerasinghe,

Commissioner General of Labour,

Department of Labour,

Colombo 5.

2. P.K. Sanjeewani, Assistant

Commissioner of Labour,

Employment Termination Unit

Department of Labour, Colombo 5.

3. R.M.A. Rathnayaka, Assistant

Commissioner of Labour,

Employment Termination Unit,

2

Department of Labour, Colombo 05.

4. M. Priyantha Pushpakumara,

No.814/C, Vihara Mawatha,

Narangoda Paluwa, Ragama.

5. R.P. SumithKumara, Thimbiriya,

Madagama,

Bibila.

6. R.M. Suranja Janaka Rathnayake,

No.30/21/04, Mayadunna, Ampara.

7. W.A. Gihan Kalyana, No.103/1A,

Kandhahenawaththa Road,

Depanama, Pannipitiya.

8. W. Pubudu Lanka, No.174,

Udakanampella, Pugoda.

9. S.N.S.B. Ajith Semasinghe, No.978/ 4,

Pannipitiya Road, Thalangama

South,

Baththaramulla.

10. R.A. Widanapathirana, Morawaka

Arachchiwaththa, Pitabeddara.

11. K.V. Susantha, No.252/1,

Udawelipitiya, Nagoda, Galle.

12. E.N.T. Siriwardhana, No.95/N,

Walpola, Ruggahawila.

13. Dhammika Kumara Jayasinghe,

No.978/ 4, Pannipitiya Road,

Thalangama South, Baththaramulla.

14. R.M. Wasantha Bandara, No.139,

Vijitha Sewana, Batagalla,

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued on

Judgment

S.Sriskandarajah,J

3

Thalathuoya.

15. S.G.C. Dias, No.94/2, Kahanthota

Road, Malambe.

RESPONDENTS

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

Dushantha Kularathna,

for the Petitioner.

M.N.B.Fernando DSG

For the Respondent

20.03.2013

06.06.2013

The Petitioner, a company incorporated under the Companies Act of Sri Lanka and it is

a subsidiary company of Ceylinco Group of Companies. It is the submission of the

Petitioner that due to the financial crisis experienced by the Ceylinco Group of

Companies, in or around 2009, the business of the Ceylinco Group of Companies,

including the Petitioner, was badly affected and, as a result, the management of the

Petitioner Company decided to offer a scheme to the employees to terminate their

services. Accordingly, the 4th to the 15th Respondents' services were terminated on the

25th of March 2009. It is the position of the Petitioner that the Petitioner had offered a

voluntary termination of service scheme offering the employees 3 months salary, and

this was accepted by the 4th to the 15th Respondents, and this was documented by letter

dated 7th of July 2009 in which these Respondents have placed their signature. It is the

submission of the Petitioner that after the acceptance of the voluntary termination of

service scheme by the 4th to the 15th Respondents, they have sought the intervention of

4

the Commissioner of Labour by their Application to the Commissioner of Labour under

the Termination of Employees (Special Provisions) Act.

The Commissioner, after an inquiry, ordered for the payment of compensation and

directed the Petitioner to deposit a sum of Rs.1,442,5001- to be paid to the 4th to the 15th

Respondents as compensation. This order dated 28 I 07 I 2011 is challenged in this

Application and the Petitioner is seeking a Writ of Certiorari to quash the said order on

the basis that the termination of the 4th to the 15th Respondents was based on a

voluntary termination of their service and that the Commissioner is not entitled to make

order to pay compensation under the Termination of Employment of Workmen (Special

Provisions) Act. Further, the Petitioner submitted that the order of the Commissioner is

bad in law as the Commissioner cannot make an order to pay compensation against an

existing company which has not been closed down to date.

Section 2 of the Termination of Employment of Workmen (Special Provisions Act)

No.45 of 1971, as amended, provides:

2(1): No employer shall terminate the employment of any

workman without:

(a) The prior consent in writing of the workmen; or

(b) The prior written approval by the Commissioner.

It is the position of the Petitioner that the Petitioner has got prior consent, in writing, of

the 4th to the 15th Respondents, to terminate their services and, therefore, the said

Respondents cannot invoke the powers of the Commissioner of Labour under the

provisions of the Termination of Employment of Workmen (Special Provisions) Act.

The Petitioners rely on a document marked P2(a), which document is undated and, it

appears, that the said document carries a heading as "Staff Notice". It states that, due to

the current financial situation of the Company, the management of the Company

5

consents to have a voluntary scheme of termination for permanent staff by which they

would be compensated with 3 months salary, and that it was intimated to the staff

members at a meeting held on 24/03/2009, and calls upon all permanent staff members

to meet with the Assistant Administrative Manager before 8/04/2009, in order to plan

necessary action. It appears that the names and signatures of the employees, including

the 4th to the 15th Respondents, appearing at the bottom of the said document show that

these Respondents have seen the said document and had made an endorsement. A

reading of the said document does not indicate that it is a consent letter given by the

Respondents to the effect that they are willing to accept a voluntary termination scheme

and, therefore, the Petitioners cannot rely on this document to state that the 4th to the

15th Respondents, by endorsing in the said document, had voluntarily agreed for their

termination of service. In these circumstances the Commissioner has rightly entertained

the application made by the 4th to the 15th Respondents to inquire into the termination

of their services under the Termination of Employment of Workmen (Special

Provisions) Act.

The Petitioners also contended that the Commissioner cannot make an

order for compensation to the unlawful termination of the services of the 4th to the 15th

Respondents. As the Petitioner's Company was functioning, the Commissioner can

only make an order for reinstatement with back wages and, therefore, the order to pay

compensation to the said Respondents is unlawful. It is the submission of the Petitioner

Company that it has offered voluntary termination of the workmen as the company was

facing financial instability. In these circumstances the Petitioner Company cannot argue

that the Commissioner, when making an order in relation to the illegal termination of

the employees of the Petitioner Company, the Commissioner would have ordered for

reinstatement with back wages. It has been held by the Supreme Court that when an

order for reinstatement of a workman is impracticable, that the Commissioner could

make an order for compensation in lieu of reinstatement and this order could be made

under Section 6 of the Termination of Employment of Workmen (Special Provisions

6

Act; Lanka Multi Moulds (P'vt) Ltd v Wimalasena, Commissioner of Labour and others [2003}1 Sri.L.R

143 Femando J. Section 6 provides: "Commissioner may order such employer to

continue to employ the workmen with effect from a date specified in such order." This

section has given discretion to the Commissioner of Labour to order for reinstatement

or to award compensation. In the given circumstances the Petitioner has pleaded and

led evidence to show that the Company was facing financial difficulties and, therefore,

it has become necessary to retrench the employees. In this background it is

impracticable for the Commissioner to order for reinstatement with back wages. For

the above reasons this Court is of the opinion that the Commissioner's order is legal and

reasonable and, therefore, dismisses this Application without costs.

President of the Court of Appeal