==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 1272/98(F)

D.C.Galle No. 10934/L

D.A. Somawathi Dole gedara Watta, Kodagoda.

Plaintiff- Appellant Vs. T. Nihal Dole gedara Watta, Horadugoda.

Defendant- Respondent

C.A. No. 1272/98(F)

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED AND

DECIDED ON

K.T. CHITRASIRI, J.

D.C.Galle No. 10934/L

K.T. CHITRASIRI, J.

S. N. Vijithsingh for the plaintiff-appellant

Defendant-respondent is absent and

unrepresented.

08th March, 20 13

***********

1

The Registrar of this Court had issued notices under

registered cover on several occasions to the defendant-respondent

directing him to be present in this Court for the purpose of proceeding

with this appeal. Those notices had not been returned. The respondent

had not responded to those notices. Therefore this appeal is taken up for

hearing in the absence of the defendant-respondent.

At this stage learned Counsel for the plaintiff-appellant

submits that the land referred to in the schedule to the amended plaint

dated 06th December 1989 which is the subject matter of this action had

2

been acquired by the State. He further submits that an inquiry is being

held by the acquiring officer pursuant to the said acquisition. Therefore

he informs Court that the appellant is not interested in pursuing this

appeal now, since no purpose is served by having the defendant-

respondent ejected from the land in dispute. In the circumstances he

moves to withdraw this appeal.

Learned Counsel for the appellant brings to the notice of

Court that the learned District Judge had not made a decision as to the

title of the land. Therefore, he further moves Court to make a direction

to the acquiring officer to consider the merits of the individual claims of

the parties at the inquiry to be held under the Land Acquisition Act.

Application of the learned Counsel for the appellant to

withdraw this appeal is allowed. Accordingly the appeal is dismissed

without costs.

Having perused the judgment of the learned District Judge,

it is clear that he had neither accepted the title claimed by the plaintiff

nor has he accepted the prescriptive claim of the defendant.

3

Therefore this Court makes an order to the acquiring officer

to consider the respective claims of the parties when determining the

ownership of the land subjected to this case if an inquiry is being held

under the Land Acquisition Act . Subject to the above variation this

appeal is dismissed without costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Kwk/=