==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA Case No. 218/11 Colombo HC Case No.4109/2007

Attorney General, Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

Complainant Vs. Asela Saminda Galoluwage

Accused And now Asela Saminda Galoluwage

Accused -Appellant Vs. Attorney General, Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

Complainant - Respondent

1

C.A. NO. 218/2011 H.C. Colombo No. 4109/2007

Before Sisira J. de Abrew, J. (Acting PICA) and

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J.

Counsel D. P. Kumarasinghe P.C. with Mahendra

Kumarasinghe and Shaminda Rodrigo

for the Accused-Appellant.

Varunika Hettige SSC for the A. G.

Argued and

Decided on 02.12.2013.

Sisira J. de Abrew. J. (Acting P / CAt

Accused-appellant produced by the Prison Authorities is

present in Court.

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted for

committing the offence of grave sexual abuse to a girl named Senanayake

Arachchilage Sashika Maduwanthi and was sentenced to a term of seven

2

years rigorous imprisonment (R.I.), to pay a fine of Rs. 5000/= carrying a

default sentence of one year rigorous imprisonment and to pay a sum of

Rs.I00,000/= to the victim carrying a default sentence of two years

rigorous imprisonment. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the

sentence, he has appealed to this Court. Learned President's Counsel

appearing for the accused-appellant does not challenge the conviction.

But he submits that the sentence imposed on the accused-appellant is

excessive. According to the facts of this case Senanayake Arachchilage

Sashika Maduwanthi is a prostitute. She has, at page 80, admitted that

she was a prostitute. She has admitted to the doctor who examined her

that she had had sexual intercourse with over hundred people. When we

consider these matters, we are of the opinion that the sentence imposed

by the learned trial Judge is highly excessive. Under SC No. 3/2008

Court has a discretion to impose an appropriate punishment in the

opinion of Court notwithstanding the minimum punishment prescribed

by law. We set aside the term of seven years R.I., the fine and the

compensation ordered by the learned trial Judge and sentence him to a

term of two years rigorous imprisonment suspended for a period of

fifteen years. We state here that the Commissioner General of Prisons

has no authority to keep the accused-appellant in his custody once he

receives the copy of this judgment. We nullify the committal signed by

(

\

1 I

1 j

I I

3

the learned High Court Judge. The learned High Court Judge must

explain the gravity of the suspended sentence.

Appeal dismissed.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

wei

1II

rII