==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

C.A. Appeal No. 80S/96(F} D.C. Colombo No. 12137/MR

Prins Gunasekera

26 Flodden Road London SE5 9LH

Plaintiff

Vs. Associated Newspapers of

Ceylon Ltd.

No35, D.R. Wijewardane Mawatha,

Colombo 10

Defendant

AND NOW BETWEEN

Prins Gunasekera

26 Flodden Road London SES 9LH

Plaintiff-Appellant

Vs Associated Newspapers of

Ceylon Ltd.

No35, D.R. Wijewardane Mawatha,

Colombo 10 Defendant-Respondent

CA 805/1996 F DC Colombo 12137 MR A W A Salam I 28.02.2011 Page 1 I

r,·~,~-·'''''''''~''",L'~~"''''''"''-='"-~<'''''''''~~'",""=l''';;"'~';C",""~-""""""""",,,,,,"",,,-''''5~_'_,_'' __ ''_'~_'_' ___ ___ '_~'' ._

j '{

Before

Counsel

Written Submissions tendered on

Decided on

A.W.Abdus Salam, J.

A.W.A. SALAM, J.

H.M. Dharmadasa for the plaintiff-appellant Kushan de Alwis for the defendant-respondent

02.09.2010

28.02.2011

T

his is an action for recovery of damages, assessed at a sum of

Rs. 5,000,000/-, arising from a libelous publication, alleged to

be per se defamatory of the plaintiff. It is common ground that "Ceylon

Daily News" of 17 May 1990 carried the said publication. This

newspaper has been self-proclaimed by the defendant as enjoying the

highest circulation in Sri Lanka and considerable circulation beyond

seas. The libelous statement was part and parcel of an article

published under the heading "Tarbrush campaign against Lanka in

London" purporting to be signed by a person describing himself as "A

True Patriot". Even though the defendant admitted the publication, it

took strong exception to the plaintiff being granted relief based on the

defence of "privilege", and "fair comment on a matter of public

interest".

The question whether the plaintiff is entitled to have and maintain the

action on the grounds set out in paragraph 7 of the answer was taken

up as a preliminary question of law, namely whether the plaintiff had

instituted action No 1990 G 5175 in the High Court of Justice Queens I CA 805/1996 F DC Colombo 12137 MR A W A Salam I 28.02.2011 Page 2 I

F"'''"""","~''';'"";;'<'~~':'~'~';;;';-'i;;;;;;:;:';;'~~~~ •. ,-~,~-;"".,.-,,---~''Z'i'''~~"-::~_O",,7.""""'''"'''''''''''''''"''~'_''''''''' •• <>''C'C.W.'''''''·""'''';''"''"C~C-r

~ I 1 t

~ t . l

1

J I I 1 j , ! j ! , !

~

j

~ I I ) i I I 1 I I l l 1 1 I 1 I

..

Bench Division, England, against the defendant for alleged damages

arising from the said publication and obtained ex parte judgment in a

sum of £150,000/- and subsequently filed application in the District

Court of Colombo under the Reciprocal Enforcement of Judgments

Ordinance (Cap 94) for the registration of the same. Admittedly, the

District Court made order on the 28th August 1993 for the registration

of the said judgment.

The learned district judge by order dated 28 July 1993 ruled out the

preliminary objection and decided to set down the case for trial. Being

aggrieved by the said order the defendant applied in revision to this

Court in application No CA 580/93 and this court on 01.12.1994

dismissed the application, reserving in the defendant the right to

canvass the said findings by way of final appeal. However, no appeal

has been preferred by the respondent (defendant) under section 772 of

the CPC against the said order. As such, the question relating to the

propriety of that order does not arise for determination in this appeal.

Turning to the main dispute, it is to be seen that the trial in this

matter proceeded on eight issues of which the first two were suggested

by the plaintiff and the rest by the defendant. In unfolding his case,

the plaintiff led the evidence of Jeyaraj Fernandopulle and closed his

case reading in evidence documents marked PI and PI A. The

document marked as PI is a copy of the newspaper and PIA is the

relevant article titled "Tarbrush campaign against Lanka in London".

j-------------..-C-A-S-O-S/-1-9-9-6-F--D-C-C-o-'o-m-b-O-1-2-1-3-7-M-R--A-W--A-s-a,-a-m-}--2-S-.0-2-.2-0-1-1-p-a

g

-e-3---I--------------

~ , i ! ; ! ! I i ! I

!. f I ! ! I \ I

I

f

i J 1 { !

-~ 1 1 , 1 1 j

The defendant closed its case without leading any evidence after

formally marking two documents as D 1 and D2 which are applicable

to the preliminary objection. Therefore, as far as the main trial is

concerned it would be correct to observe that the defendant neither

adduced any oral evidence nor did it produce any documentary

evidence in support of its position.

At the conclusion of the trial by judgment dated 12 September 1996

the learned district judge held interalia that the said pUblication is

neither defamatory of the palin tiff nor is capable of reasonably

construction that the plaintiff was using the organizations referred to

in the article to misappropriate funds given by donors. Consequently,

the action of the plaintiff was dismissed.

The plaintiff has appealed from this judgment.

It is necessary at this stage to examine the evidence led by the plaintiff

to establish the allegation. The only witness who testified on behalf of

the plaintiff was Jeyaraj Fernandopulle who was the Deputy Minister

of Policy Planning, Ethnic Affairs and National Integration. By

profession the witness was an Attorney-at-law. He had known the

plaintiff for nearly 25 years. According to his evidence the plaintiff had

been elected as a Member of Parliament in March 1960 to represent

the Habaraduwa electorate and later re-elected in 1970. The witness

claimed that he had personal acquaintance with the plaintiff who had

a high reputation. The witness described the plaintiff as one of the

CA 805/1996 F DC Colombo 12137 MR A W A Salam J 28.02.2011 Page 4 I

popular criminal lawyers and one who had played a leading role In

cases concerning the violation of human rights in Sri Lanka.

Testifying as to the circumstances which compelled the plaintiff to

leave the country and take up residence in England, the witness

maintained that some unknown people were after his life as he was

appearing in violation of human rights cases. The witness also stated

that the plaintiff campaigned for democracy and worked for the

preservation of human rights. The plaintiff was hailed by the witness

as a leading figure in Sri Lanka.

The evidence of the witness touching upon the integrity, honesty,

credibility and recognition of the plaintiff has been recorded in

question and answer form in the following manner.

Question: Having known Mr. Gunasekara for such a long

time, do you believe for a moment that he would

misappropriate any funds collected?

Answer: He was a person who appeared free of charge for

litigants in cases. He was not a person who would

misappropriate money.

Question: Are you aware that Mr. Gunasekara collected

public funds for any organization?

Answer: He has not collected public funds for any

organization. I have met him in London before this article

and after this article. I met him in London twice. He has a

very high reputation in London.

CA 805/1996 F DC Colombo 12137 MR A W A Salam J 28.02.2011 Page 5 I

It is quite significant to note that under cross examination no effort

has been made by the defendant to controvert the evidence of Jeyaraj

Fernandopulle. Therefore, incontrovertibly his evidence vividly

portrayed the true public image of the plaintiff. He gave a detailed

description of his version as to what he thought the standing of the

plaintiff in the society was. The uncontradicted evidence of this

witness concerning the plaintiff was that he commanded great respect

in the society and admired by all and had earned a good name of the

public. In other words the witness was emphatic that the plaintiff was

held in high esteem as a politician, lawyer and a person who tirelessly

toiled towards the protection of democracy and preservation of human

rights. According to the witness, the plaintiff was indeed held in very

high esteem in England as well.

At this stage, it may be useful to refer to certain parts of the impugned

publication, since the publication has to be read in its entirety and not

in isolation as was done by the district judge, to ascertain the extent

to which the publication is derogatory of the plaintiff. Some of the

relevant excerpts of the publication read as follows ...

"Tarbush campaign against Lanka in London-

No Sri Lankan can forget the experienced till about the end of 1989.

terror

People were so sick of the situation, that they would have no objection to Rohana Wijeweera being made a Minister-let alone even offered the Premiership, if the violence could have been halted and people allowed to live their normal lives.

CA 805/1996 F DC Colombo 12137 MR A W A Salam J 28.02.2011 Page 6 I

~ I [ IIIII

"

----

Those who fostered and spawned these terrorist groups were forced to flee the country and many of them are here in the UK unable to return, now that there are "Jekyl and Hyde" existence has been exposed.

It is sad to. see a small group of Sri Lankans residing in the UK, teaming up with these purveyors of violence, to engage in a campaign accusing the Sri Lankan government of violation of human rights etc.

Where were these so called campaigners of democracy and human rights when the JVP and the northern terrorists slaughtered people by hundreds and destroyed vi tal facilities and wrecked the economy? What right have they to claim to be patriots and champions of democracy, when all they did many years was stay away from troubled homeland, making no contribution to the rest to the situation.

Now when things are peaceful and the country making an effort to salvage the battered economy these groups dare to suggest that aid donor countries should stop all aid to Sri Lanka.

Two organizations in the UK that are in the age in this campaign of vilification are the Sinhala Balamandalaya led by petrol pumper named Gamini Keerthichandra Fernando and campaign for democracy and human rights in Sri Lanka led by Prins Gunasekera and Clem Perera. (Emphasis added)

It is well known that these small groups of Sri Lankans in U. K. comprise of those who never achieved any form of recognition in their own country or even in the U.K. now quite suddenly they appear fired by a spirit of patriotism whereas the real motive is to gain some publicity for them. (Emphasis added)

Another motive is to use

fool Sri Lankans in philanthropic organizations

this U.K.

activity to

and other to dona te funds

CA 805/1996 F DC Colombo 12137 MR A W A 5a1am J 28.02.2011 Page 7 I

which these scheming indi viduals pocket for themselves" ...

No doubt the learned district judge has considered the contents of the

article as being defamatory. Nevertheless, he concluded that the

contents do not apply to the plaintiff. The reason behind this fmding

appears to be quite strange. On a perusal of the reasoning adopted by

the learned district judge it appears that the article at one place refers

to a "small groups of Sri Lankans in the United Kingdom comprise of

those who never achieved any form of recognition in their own country

or even in the United Kingdom and they now quite suddenly appear

fired by a spirit of patriotism whereas the real motive is to gain some

publicity for themselves". Since the plaintiff is a person of very high

reputation and had achieved recognition both in Sri Lanka and in

London, the learned district judge was of the view that the reference in

the article is devoid of any defamatory material concerning the plaintiff

as alleged by him and therefore obviously no reader of the article PIA

would have understood that these paragraphs refer to the plaintiff.

It is common ground that the impugned article PIA has been

published in the newspaper in the editorial page. This undoubtedly

sheds light as to the prominence the defendant has chosen to give the

article "Tarbrush campaign against Lanka in London".

Moreover, the defendant has published a 2 1/2" x 3 1/2" size

photograph of the plaintiff with the caption printed underneath with

the name "Prins Gunasekara" in the said article and conspicuously

this is the only photograph the article carried. Having referred to the

CA 805/1996 F DC Colombo 12137 MR A W A Salam J 28.02.2011 Page 8 I

t ( t t ! I

,I

--.

plaintiff by name in the article as one of the leaders involved in the

campaign for democracy and human rights in Sri Lanka, the

defendant has identified the plaintiff as being in the forefront of these

small groups of Sri Lankan in U.K. The article described the small

groups including the group led by the plaintiff as being involved in

collection of public funds and pocketing the same. On a careful

reading of the article in its entirety, the objective intended to be

achieved by the publisher can safely be inferred as an attempt to warn

the Sri Lankans in U.K. and other philanthropic organizations against

the scheming individuals and organizations involved in misusing

public funds. The important question that arises at this stage is, why

then publish a photograph of the plaintiff prominently in the said

article unless the publisher had an ulterior motive to bring in the

plaintiff into disrepute by imputing an unproven allegation of

dishonesty.

The pith of the plaintiffs case therefore is that the article complained

of is per se defamatory of him. The plaintiff contended that the

question as to whether the publication is per se defamatory is entirely

a matter for the determination of the judge and the examination of the

article, clearly indicates that the plaintiff who is a senior Attorney-at-

law has been dishonestly pocketing money and appropriating for

himself the donations made towards the campaign for Democracy and

Human Rights in Sri Lanka.

CA 805/1996 F DC Colombo 12137 MR A W A Salam J 28.02.2011 Page 9 I

I 1 t j

\ I ! I I I I ! I ,

j i i 1 i j !

It is trite law that the words used in a publication of defamatory

character need to be construed with reference to the context in which

they are used. The trial judge is also duty-bound to examine such

words in the light of all the circumstances surrounding the

publication which are properly adduced in evidence as affecting their

meaning. In the case of Stewart Printing Company Ltd vs Conray 1948

(2) SA 707 (A. D) it was held that where the defamatory words are

contained in a book, the whole of the contents of the book must be

taken into account.

Similarly, when defamatory words are contained in a newspaper

article, unless the contents of the article in its entirety are taken into

account, it would hardly be possible to arrive at a defmite finding as to

the actual nature of the article.

As has been urged on behalf of the plaintiff, the learned district judge

has failed to attach any importance to the photograph of the plaintiff

published along with his name, when he came to the conclusion that

the defamatory words used in the article are not applicable or cannot

reasonably be construed to be applicable to the plaintiff.

In this respect it must be observed that the omission on the part of the

trial judge to give due weightage to the publication of the photograph

of the plaintiff in a prominent manner accompanied by the caption

carrying his name is the most serious flaw in the impugned judgment

which renders it strikingly perverse and irrational. Had the learned

district judge properly considered the prominently displayed

CA 805/1996 F DC Colombo 12137 MR A W A Salam J 28.02.2011 Page 10 I

I

1 I

photograph of the plaintiff with his name clearly printed out beneath

it, he would have had no difficulty whatsoever in coming to the

conclusion that the publication of the photograph of the plaintiff

would have left a lasting impression in the minds of any reasonable

and prudent reader that the plaintiff having collected funds in London

for the alleged cause as described in the article had appropriated the

same for his own use.

As has been contended by the appellant this aspect of the matter

would be clearly seen and signposted in the following extracts from the

publication.

"Two organizations in the UK that are engaged in this campaign of vilification are.... and the campaign for democracy and human rights in Sri Lanka led by Prins Gunasekara" .

"Where were these so-called campaigners for democracy and human rights when the JVP and the northern terrorist slaughtered people by the hundreds and destroyed vital facilities and weaken the economy? What rights have they to claim to be patriots and champions of democracy, when all they did these many contributions to help restore the situation?"

"It is well-known that the small groups of Sri Lankans in the UK comprised of those who never achieved any form of recognition in their own country or even in the UK now qui te suddenly appear fired by a spirit of patriotic, whereas the real motive is to gain some publicity"

"Another motive is to use this acti vi ty to fool the Sri Lankans in UK and other philanthropic organizations to donate funds

CA80Sj1996F DCColombo 12137MR AWASalamJ 28.02.2011 Page 11 I

i

i I ! !

t i I

which these scheming individuals pocket for them" .

It would be seen that the article in question has referred to three

individuals by name and with the photograph of the plaintiff. The

article clearly identifies the plaintiff and his organization amongst

others as being responsible for engaging in the campaign of

vilification. For purpose of clarity the relevant passage from the article

is reproduced below .. :

"The organizations in the UK that are engaged in this campaign of vilification are the Sinhala Bala Mandalaya led by a petrol pumper named Gamini Keerthichandra Fernando and the campaign for democracy of human rights in Sri Lanka led by Prins Gunasekara and Clem Perera". (Emphasis added)

In the circumstances, in my opinion it is a clear misdirection of law to

have come to the conclusion that the article in question is not

referable to the plaintiff as he does not fall into the category of people

who have "never achieved any form of recognition in their own

country or even in the U.K." as referred to in the article.

Whenever any reader with an average intelligence goes through the

article, no difficulty would possibly experience by anyone to ascertain

the individuals targeted by the author who allege dishonest conduct

on their part. No reader would ever examine or reasonably expected to

scrutinize the article in the light of whether the plaintiff has ever

achieved any form of recognition in his own country or even in the U.K

to exclude him from the per se defamatory publication. It is contended

CA 805/1996 F DC Colombo 12137 MR A W A Salam J 28.02.2011 Page 121

i 1 ! I I I 1 I

J ! I 1 i 1

1 j

1 I. i I I

~ 1

on behalf of the plaintiff that if the reasoning adopted by the learned

district judge is valid in law to dismiss the plaintiffs action, any

eminent person, without actually naming him but giving unmistakable

clause to his identity, could be defamed with impunity by merely

inserting in the defamatory publication a statement that the

identifiable victim is a person of no consequence. I am in total

agreement with the contention of the plaintiff on this matter.

Therefore what is significant in the article is the reference made

directly to the plaintiff as being responsible for the questionable

conduct in the alleged act of embezzlement. Hence, the article in

question in my opinion is per se defamatory of the plaintiff and the

learned district judge has misdirected himself in holding otherwise.

For nearly two decades the defendant has not taken any interest to

exclude the plaintiff from the self-explanatory defamatory publication

or was so keen to exclude him from the small group of Sri Lankans or

from the scheming individuals referred to in the article, in order to

minimize the damage caused to the reputation of the plaintiff. The fact

that no apology was forthcoming, in respect of the defamatory

publication, is a matter the court can properly take into consideration

in fixing the quantum of damages.

It is to be observed that the privilege of the press is not an absolute

one but is qualified being circumscribed within the limits of the

provisions enjoined by law. It has been reiterated by courts allover the

~ world that the freedom of press should be exercised with greater j------------=----t CA 805/1996 F DC Colombo 12137 MR A W A Salam J 28.02.2011 Page 131

1

I I I ! 1 t

t I

l I I

t I i i t !

f I I

responsibilities and newspapers should be more cautious in making

scandalous imputations.

The defendant has failed to adduce any evidence in opposition to the

claim made by the plaintiff to justify the defence of privilege or fair

comment. In the circumstances, it is my considered view that the

learned district judge has erred himself when he came to the

conclusion that the action of the plaintiff should be dismissed on the

grounds relied upon by him. The said judgment of the learned district

judge in my opinion has ended up in a travesty of Justice. In actual

truth the article in question is per se defamatory of the plaintiff and

is capable of being construed by the readers as a reference made

to the plaintiff.

Hence the findings, judgment and the decree which ended up in the

dismissal of the plaintiffs action are liable to be set aside. The learned

district judge who heard the case incidentally has retired and cannot

be reappointed in law to re-hear the case. Moreover, the only witness

who testified on behalf of the plaintiff in the lower court is not among

the living. Therefore, to send this case back to the district court to

decide the quantum of damages arising from the defamatory

publication would mean further litigation, unnecessary expenses for

both parties, and a further meaningless appeal. Such a course, if

adopted would mean prolonging the agony which would certainly be

unfair and not at all beneficial or conducive to the best interest of the

parties. I

I

CA 805/1996 F DC Colombo 12137 M RAW A Salam J 28.02.2011 Page 141

I I I

t I t

f

I t f I I ! ! I !

For the foregoing reasons, in my opinion, it is not inappropriate for

this court to determine the amount of compensation the plaintiff is

entitled regard being had to the applicable legal principles.

The claim for damages in sum of Rs 5,000,000/- made in this case by

the plaintiff generally is comparable with the awards made by our

courts in similar situations. It is of paramount importance to note at

this stage that the defendant has not pleaded the defence of

justification in the answer. Hence, it can safely be assumed that the

publication in question, to say the least, in so far as it relates to the

allegation of financial misconduct, is both reckless and malicious on

its face. Taking into consideration that the plaintiff is a leading lawyer

both here and abroad and that he was a member of Parliament for

nearly 10 years and the conduct of the defendant both at the time of

publication and thereafter, I consider it as being reasonable to fix the

damages payable at 5 million (Rs 5,000,000/-) as prayed for in the

plaint.

As the Plaintiff is permanently resident in U.K, although it may strictly

be irrelevant and have no bearing on this decision, let me place it on

record, the pecuniary disadvantages a judgment creditor may have to

undergo by reason of the changes that necessarily take place from

time to time in the field of global exchange rates.

On 12 September 1996, to wit on the date of the impugned judgment

a sterling pound was equivalent to LKR 86.9194 LKR and by

8.02.2011 sterling pound gone up to LKR 180 LKR. Accordingly the

CA 805/1996 F DC Colombo 12137 MR A W A Salam J 28.02.2011 Page 151

•

sterling pound conversion of Rs 5,000,000/- in 1996 would be

£ 57471. The sterling pound conversion of Rs 5,000,000/- in 2011 is

£ 27777.

Had the plaintiff been awarded the full measure of damages in a sum

of Rs 5,000,000/- in 1996 he would have been entitled to 29694

pounds more than what he would receive by virtue of this judgment in

the form of foreign exchange. The rupee value of £ 29694 as at today

is equivalent to (29694x180) LKR 5,344,920/-.

For reasons stated above, I allow the appeal and flx the quantum of

damages the plaintiff is entitled to claim at Rs 5 million

(Rs 5,000,000/ -) as prayed for in the plaint.

The plaintiff is entitled to costs in both Court.

Judge of the Court of Appeal I

I

f l I

Kwk/-

CA 805/1996 F DC Colombo 12137 MR A W A 5alam J 28.02.2011 Page 161