==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an Appeal form the High Court of the Provinces (North Western Province) holden in Chilaw established in terms of Article 154P of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka read with the High Court of the Provinces (Special Provisions) Act No. 19 of 1990.

Officer in Chage Police Station, Madampe. Complainant Court of Appeal Case No: CA/PHC/0033/2023 Vs. High Court of Chilaw Case No. HCR 17/2020 Chilaw MC No.97558 Santhanadewage Susil De Silva Irattakulam, Madampe. Accused AND BETWEEN

A.T. Lincy Fernando No. 15, Ihalagama, Madampe.

Registered Owner-Petitioner

2

Vs.

Officer in Chage Police Station, Madampe. Complainant- 1st Respondent

Hon. Attorney General Attorney General’s Department, Colombo 12.

2nd Respondent

AND NOW BETWEEN

A.T. Lincy Fernando No. 15, Ihalagama, Madampe.

Registered Owner-Petitioner-Appellant

Vs.

Officer in Chage Police Station, Madampe. Complainant - 1st Respondent-Respondent

Hon. Attorney General Attorney General’s Department, Colombo 12.

2nd Respondent-Respondent

3

Before: Amal Ranaraja, J.

Dr. Sumudu Premachandra, J. Counsel: Dhanushka Rahubadda with Danusha Udahawatta and Dilini Erandika instructed by Praveen Premathilake for the Appellant. Shezan Mahboob, S.C. for the State. Argued on: 01.07.2026 Judgment on: 06.08.2026

Judgment

Amal Ranaraja. J,

1. On November 22nd, 2017, officers of the Madampe Police Station have

arrested a person named Sakkya Devage Susil De Silva for transporting

Halmilla and Kohomba timber logs valued at Rs. 9,381.78 without a

valid permit. This has occurred in a vehicle bearing Registration

Number NWLH 2943.

2. Thereafter, the office in charge of the Madampe police has instituted

proceedings in the Chilaw Magistrates Court against the person

referred to above, for illegally transporting Halmilla and Kohomba

timber logs, an offence punishable under Section 24(1) read with

Sections 25(2) and 40 of the Forest Ordinance No.16 of 1907 (as

Amended). The accused upon pleading guilty to the charge has been

convicted and sentenced.

4

3. Subsequently, a confiscation inquiry has been held regarding the

vehicle bearing Registration No. NWLH 2943. By order dated August

23rd, 2019, the learned Magistrate has ordered the confiscation of said

vehicle. Aggrieved by the order, the registered owner petitioner-

appellant (herein after referred to as the appellant) has filed an

application in revision (HCR 17/20) in the High Court of Chilaw.

4. The learned High Court Judge by order dated January 27th, 2022, has

dismissed the revision application and affirmed the order of the learned

Magistrate. The appellant also being aggrieved by the order of the

learned High Court Judge of Chilaw dated January 27th, 2022, has

preferred the instant appeal to this Court.

5. It is common ground that the officer in charge at the Madampe police,

has instituted proceedings against Sakkya Devage Sunil De Silva for

illegally transporting Halmilla and Kohomba timber logs valued at Rs.

9,381.78 on November 22nd, 2017, thereby committing an offence

punishable under Section 24(1) read with Sections 25(2) and 40 of the

Forest Ordinance No.16 Of 1907 (as Amended)

6. Section 40 of the Forest Ordinance No.16 of 1907 (as Amended)

provides as follows;

40.

(1) Where any person is convicted of a forest offence-

(a) all timber or forest produce which is not the property of the

State in respect of which such offence has been committed; and

(b) all tools, vehicles, implements, cattle and machines used in

committing such offence,

5

shall in addition to any other punishment specified for such offence,

be confiscated by Order of the convicting Magistrate:

Provided that in any case where the owner of such tools, vehicles,

implements and machines used in the commission of such

offence, is a third party, no Order of Confiscation shall be made if

such owner proves to the satisfaction of the Court that he had

taken all precautions to prevent the use of such tools, vehicles,

implements, cattle and machines, as the case may be, for the

commission of the offence.'.

(2) Any property forfeited to the State under subsection (1) shall

(a) if no appeal has been preferred to the Court of Appeal against

the relevant conviction, vest absolutely in the State with

effect from the date on which the period prescribed for

preferring an appeal against such conviction expires;

(b) if an appeal has been preferred to the Court of Appeal

against the relevant conviction, vest absolutely in the State

with effect from the date on which such conviction is

affirmed on appeal.

In this subsection, 'relevant conviction' means the conviction in

consequence of which any property is forfeited to the State under

subsection (1).'.

7. Section 40 of the Forest Ordinance, states that upon a conviction, all

timber and forest produce that have been the subject matter of the

offence, and vehicles used for the commission of such offence, would be

confiscated. If the owner of the vehicle himself was the accused in the

6

preceding case, then the issue before the Court in a confiscation inquiry

will not be complicated. However, if the owner is a third party, it would

be necessary for a Court to ascertain whether the offence was

committed by a particular accused with the knowledge and the

connivance of the owner of the vehicle used for the commission of the

forest offence.

8. The owner of the vehicle must establish on a balance of probability, that

he took all precautions to prevent the vehicle from being used in the

commission of a forest offence. The specific precautions deemed

relevant will vary from case to case; there are no universal measures

that all vehicle owners must follow. It is crucial that the precautions

taken are convincing and clearly demonstrate the owner’s diligence.

9. As per the disputed order of the learned Magistrate dated August 23rd,

2019, the learned Magistrate has merely recounted the testimony lead

at the confiscation inquiry. However, he has not applied the facts

emerging from that testimony to the relevant law or established judicial

precedent. The evidence has not been evaluated for the purpose of

determining whether the legal requirements for confiscation were

satisfied, nor has the learned Magistrate provided cogent and adequate

reasons to justify the conclusion reached.

10. In these circumstances, the disputed order of the learned Magistrate

cannot be sustained. Accordingly, I set aside the said order, together

with the order of the learned High Court Judge of Chilaw, and direct

that a fresh inquiry in respect of vehicle bearing Registration No.

NWLH 2943 be conducted by the learned Magistrate of Chilaw.

11. I make no order regarding costs.

Appeal allowed.

7

12. The Registrar of this Court is directed to send this Judgement to the

Magistrates Court in Chilaw for compliance.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Dr. Sumudu Premachandra, J.

I agree

Judge of the Court of Appeal