==== BLOCKS ==== 

t l 1

1 I I

1 I 1 i

1 !

~ I I j

t

~

f I I I 1 I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL

OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C. A. Appeal No.932/98(F)

C. A. Appeal No.932A/98(F)

Palliyaguruge Gnanawathie

No.22, Pamankada Road, Wellawatta

Plaintiff - Appellant in 932/98 and the

Plaintiff-Respondent in 932A/98

D.C. MT.LAVINIA CASE No.l05/92/L

BEFORE

COUNSEL

VS

Pothupitiyage Demond Silva

No.22, Palliyadora Road, Dehiwela

Deceased DeCendant-Respondent

Palluwa Arachchige Sumanalatha and

two others of No.22,Palliyadora Road,

Dehiwela.

Substituted-DeCendant-Appellant in

932A/98 and Substituted-DeCendant-

Respondent in 932/98

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J

Padma Bandara with S.Rajapakshe, L.Ariyadasa

and M.I.Mohamed for the Plaintiff-Appellant

in C.A.932/98(F) and for the Plaintiff-Respondent

in C.A. No.932A/98(F))

1

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS:

FILED ON

DECIDED ON

CHITRASIRI, J.

C.J.Laduwahetti for the Substituted-defendant

Respondents in C.A.932/98(F) and for the

Substituted-Defendant-Appellants in

C.A.No.932A/98(F)

12.06.2013

9th July 2013 by the Defendant-Respondent.

16th July 2013 by the Plaintiff-Appellant

06.02.2014

Being aggrieved by the judgment dated 03.07.1998 of the learned District

Judge of Mt.Lavinia, both the plaintiff and the defendant have sought to set

aside the aforesaid judgment by filing these two appeals bearing Nos.932/98(F)

and 932A/98(F). They also sought to have the respective reliefs, as prayed for

by them in those two appeals.

This is an action filed by the plaintiff-appellant (hereinafter referred to as

the plaintiff) to have a judgment declaring that she is entitled to the land

referred to in the 3rd schedule to the plaint by virtue of the deeds bearing

Nos.2692 and 421 marked as PI and P2 respectively. Having opposed to the

said claim of the plaintiff, the defendant-respondent (hereinafter referred to as

the defendant) too, has claimed prescriptive rights to the same land referred to

in the 3rd schedule to the plaint.

2

As mentioned before, there is no dispute as to the identity of the

land subjected to in this case. The land claimed by the plaintiff as well as the

defendant is the land referred to in the 3rd schedule to the plaint. It is the "Lot

8" in the plan bearing No.617 dated 3.1.1985 drawn by A.E.C.Fernando,

Licensed Surveyor. The extent of which is 21 perches. It was marked as P6 in

evidence.

At the outset, both Counsel brought to the notice of this Court that the

learned District Judge has dismissed the case of the plaintiff and also the

defendant's claim of prescription having set out only a mere narration of the

evidence without it been evaluated. Indeed, the learned District Judge has not

at all looked at the prescriptive claim of the defendant. He has dismissed both

the plaint of the plaintiff and the prescriptive claim of the defendant without

assigning reasons for his findings. Therefore, on the face of the impugned

judgment, it demands re-considering the merits of the case.

Looking at the merits in a case of this nature is basically a matter for the

original court judge. However, the circumstances present in this case,

particularly the delay that had occurred having filed the case in year 1982,

requires considering the possibility of determining the rights of the parties by

this Court, upon looking at the available evidence without remitting the case

\

for re-trial though this is a Court exercising appellate jurisdiction. Hence, I

decide to consider the merits of the case by looking at the evidence available in

this case, to ascertain whether this Court is in a position to determine the

3

1 I 1 ! J j I I I

t I t 1 j I

J I I , 1 I 1 i

rights of the parties and then to see whether it is necessary to vary/set aside

the findings of the learned District Judge accordingly.

Also, it must be noted that in the event, the prescriptive claim of the

defendant is accepted then the plaintiffs claim that was made depending on

the title deeds will have no effect or force since prescriptive rights would prevail

over the rights derived from title deeds. Hence, I will first consider whether the

defendant was able to establish his claim on prescription to the land in suit.

The plaintiff in her evidence has admitted that she never possessed this

land (vide proceedings at page 88 in the appeal brief). In fact she has first seen

this land only after the execution of the deed PIon 1.12.1986. Having

purchased the property, the plaintiff had attempted to obtain possession of the

land. Consequent upon such attempts, a complaint had been made to the

Police and as a result of which, an action had been filed in the Primary Court of

Mt.Lavinia in terms of the provisions contained in the Primary Courts

procedure Act. In that action bearing No.44268 filed in the Primary Court, an

order was made in favour of the defendant who was the 1 st respondent in that

case and accordingly he was placed in possession of the land without being

obstructed by the others. The plaintiff in this case is the 2nd respondent in

that application filed in the Primary Court. A person by the name of Mohamed

Hussain, who gave evidence in this case, also was a party to that application

filed in the Primary Court. He is the person from whom the plaintiff has

4

purchased this property. The order in the said action filed in the Primary

Court was marked as VI in evidence.

There was no dispute as to the identity of the corpus even in the

application filed in the Primary Court and in that action; the learned Primary

Court Judge has clearly stated that the land in dispute is Lot 8 in the Plan 617.

He, in his order has clearly stated that the defendant in this case had been

living on this land since the year 1985. The aforesaid circumstances had not

been controverted or challenged by the plaintiff. Therefore, it is clear that the

defendant had been living with his family members in the house alleged to have

situated on Lot 8 shown in plan 617 marked P6.

Even though there is unambiguous and unchallenged evidence to show

that the defendant had been in possession of the land in question, adverse to

the rights of the plaintiff or her predecessors-in-title, since the year 1985 on

the basis of the aforesaid order made in the case filed in the Primary Court,

such period of adverse possession is insufficient for the defendant to succeed

in his claim on prescription since such period of time falls short of 10 years.

This action had been filed on 21.7.1982 and therefore it is not sufficient for the

defendant to succeed in his prescriptive claim. It is because, in terms of

Section 3 of the Prescription Ordinance, our law requires to have undisturbed

and uninterrupted possession for a period of ten years, adverse to the rights of

the others who claim rights to the land. Therefore, the defendant should have

established that he was in possession of the land adverse to the rights of the

5

~ I

f

rJ f III

, t I t

~, I

i ! I I I! r I I! I

I I plaintiff and her predecessors in title at least for a period of ten years from

20.7.1982 for him to have prescriptive rights to this land.

Person by the name of Mohammed Hussain, from whom the land was

purchased by the plaintiff, has given evidence. He has bought this property

only on 30.1.1985. In his evidence he has stated that he sold the aforesaid lot

8 containing 21 perches to the plaintiff from the larger land he had purchased

which is being referred to in the plan marked P6. Aforesaid Hussain had been

called as a witness by the plaintiff herself. In his evidence-in-chief, he has said

that the defendant along with his brothers was occupying the larger land that

he bought. He has further stated that some of those blocks of land which were

occupied by other persons at that point of time, had left those premises upon

receiving money. (vide proceedings at page 105 in the appeal brief) In answer to

Court the aforesaid witness Mohamed Hussain, has also said that the

possession of those blocks of land that were sold by him was not handed over

to anybody physically. (vide proceedings at page 116 in the appeal brief) He has

replied in the following manner to a question posed by the Counsel for the

defendant:

(vide proceedings at page 116 in the appeal brief)

6

t1i

III

I

I

!

In the circumstances, it is clear that the evidence adduced on behalf of

the plaintiff herself, has indicated that the defendant had been living on this

land even before she purchased the land, subjected to in this case.

I will now quote a few item of the evidence given by the defendant in

connection with the possession of the land prior to the order made in the case

filed in the Primary Court.

"~® Ci@)O 8 3; E)i 1945 8()® ®) o~o~E) 85~E)). @() CiOO Ci@)O 08 3; ®)Ci(3j'

®E)a), 8C))a), QCi3)j<O QCi3)j<Ocaf Q3) ®®a) o~o~E) 85c). ~® ~zQ)z<9Ci<9

(Vide proceedings at page 128 in the appeal brief}

"Ci®® ~C)CiS d)CiQ)~ Ci(3»)C)~zG3<9@ 3)~Ci~ ®®C3. ~ Q~3)) ®() 5C)<S <oafo!5)

8(C> go!5)). ~® Ci(3»)C)o!5)zG3<9@ ~~ ~Ci<9 ~~() qgo~ 5 - 6 ~() go®a. 8c)

~afo!5) ~)Ci<9 CiS Ci(3»)C)o!5)zG3<9@ d)~Ciaf CiO)~C()a. @() E)C») CiO)~ ~~d'."

(Vide proceedings at page 136 in the appeal brief}

g. Ol®)@ Ci@)O 8 t1)C)o!5) ~zQ)z<9@ ~~S oz.6 Ol®) Q®~ Ol®afCi(3j' OgCi<9

~o5C) Ci~)a ~)@Cid < 85Cid ?

7

~ III I

\ ! , t f I !

G· t1)zQ)@ qot1) 8 o!5)za>D.

9· t1)D~< wc) (i(5.)C) ~<~0!5) ou~ (5.)af(iaf O)®~ ?

G. 1990.

9. (i(5.)C) ~<~0!5) <§>cl(io@~ O)®) (it1))(i~J< o~o~ B SB(id ?

G. ~(it1)®cS. ~t1) (iO)C) (i(5.)C)::D.

9. ~ (i(5.)cS (it1))!)C)o t1)@ SBcn < ?

G. 1945 Su o~o~D SBc).

(Vide proceedings at pages 150 and 151 in the appeal brief}

Moreover, the defendant has produced in evidence a copy of the

Assessment Register marking it, as V16. In that document the name of the

defendant is found and it had been issued in respect of the premises bearing

No.22. Similarly, the document marked V17 also had been produced to show

the name of the defendant appearing in the Assessment Register for the year

1982. The document marked V20 shows that a notice had been sent by the

Municipality to the defendant directing him, he being the son of Aponso

Arnolis, to pay the taxes for the year 1980. The receipt issued by the Municipal

Council to the defendant for the payment of the rates also had been marked in

evidence. The document marked V20 also is a document to show that the

defendant had been living at the premises No.22. The address given to the

Registrar of Marriages by the defendant at the time he married also is No.22,

Palliyadora Road, Dehiwela. The Death Certificate of his father marked in

evidence also shows that even the father of the defendant had been living at 22,

Palliyadora Road, Dehiwela.

8

III

\

The officer who gave evidence from the Municipal Council,

Dehiwela has stated that the premises No.22 appearing in the Registers

maintained at the Municipality was the obsolete number and the new number

allocated to this premises is No.18. (vide proceedings at page 98 in the appeal

brief}. He was subjected to cross-examination at length. However, he has

categorically stated that No.22 is the obsolete number and the new number

allocated to the premises is No.18. (vide proceedings at page 102 in the appeal

brief}. In the plan marked V3 too, it clearly shows that there had been a house

and it was given the Assessment No.22. The said plan had been prepared in

the year 1959. In that plan, there are number of buildings and it is a larger

land. The land referred to in the plan marked P6 is a land within the said larger

land. Disputed lot 8 falls within both the plans marked V3 and P6.

However, it must be mentioned that the plan which was marked as

P6 by the plaintiff, indicates only the divisions of a larger land without showing

the buildings found thereon. Therefore, the plan marked P6 can only testify to

the extent of the land and not in respect of the buildings found thereon.

However, a few numbers of buildings are also shown in the plan bearing

No.2288 marked as V3 which had been prepared earlier to P6. Therefore, it is

impossible to conclude and it will not even support that there had been no

buildings on the land subjected to this action merely because no buildings are

found on Lot 8 in plan 617 marked P6,

9

t ! I

! i f I

III

r I

~

, r

I , I , ! I!

~ I I,

In the circumstances, having looked at the totality of the evidence,

it is crystal clear that the defendant had been living on this land since his

birth. He had never allowed the plaintiff or her predecessors in title to possess

the land. Overwhelming evidence is available to show that the defendant was

living on this land adverse to the rights of the plaintiff and her predecessors in

title. Therefore, it is incorrect, not to have accepted the prescriptive claim of

the defendant by the learned District Judge.

In VIew of the above circumstances, it is my opInIon that the

defendant has established that he is entitled to claim prescriptive rights to the

land referred to in the 3rd schedule to the plaint. Accordingly, he is entitled to

have the reliefs prayed for in his answer dated 29.1.1993. Now that this Court

has decided that the defendant is entitled to the land claimed by the plaintiff

on the basis of prescription, the plaintiff cannot claim title to the land by the

two deeds marked PI and P2. Therefore, the action of the plaintiff is to be

dismissed. For the aforesaid reasons, I allow the appeal of the defendant whilst

dismissing the appeal of the plaintiff. Accordingly, judgment dated 03rd July

1998 of the learned District Judge is set aside. The defendant is entitled to the

reliefs prayed for in his answer dated 29.1.1993 and also for the costs of this

appeal.

Plaintiff's appeal is dismissed.

Defendant's appeal is allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

10

I

JI! 1I,II

r f r i I III f 1:

! ! II

{

I Ii

f i