==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA. No 46/2011

1. Wijebandarage Iliangasinghe

(deceased)

2. Ranbandage Sisira IIlangasinghe

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

H.C Anuradhapura 51/2003

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

P.R. Walgama J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDENT

Kumuduni Wijesooriya for the Accused-Appellant

Dilan Ratnayake S.S.C for the Complainant-Respond net

20.11.2014

30.01.2015

1 II i I1 isI i

I

2

GOONERATNE J.

The two Accused-Appellants were indicted for the murder of one

Punchibanda Senarath Basnayake on or about 13th December 1997. 1st

Accused was reported dead (vide proceedings of 30.01.2007) and the trial

proceeded against the 2

nd Accused-Appellant in the High Court of

Anuradhapura, from about 02.05.2011. This is about 14 years after the

incident. At the trial learned State counsel moved court to lead the depositions

of witness No. (1) & (5) made at the non-summary inquiry since both these

witnesses were dead, by that time. The defence had no objection to admit the

deposition, as per Section 33 of the Evidence Ordinance. The Accused-

Appellant and the deceased Accused were brothers. The Accused party and

the deceased were engaged in farming. I have also perused the judgment and

at Pg. 3 (folio 107) the learned trial Judge refer to matters that need to be

satisfied by the prosecution in an instance where deposition, in the non-

summary inquiry had to be produced at the trial before the High Court. The

three necessary conditions to be established are also embodied in the same

folio, and in the judgment.

i ! ! i ! I ! ! I I ! I I f II

f i

I I

i I& I1! ; ;-I f 1 I t ! j ! f

3

It is recorded in the judgment that the two main witnesses for the

prosecution were reported dead by the relevant police. Defence had not

objected for the report tendered to court, by the police pertaining to the

death of witnesses. The depositions led as per Section 33 of the Evidence

Ordinance reveal that the deceased witness Punchiband Basnayake was

working in his paddy field and thereafter came on to the road. At that moment

both the Accused persons also came to the same place. There was a boutique

near that place and some people had gathered at the boutique. The time was

about 7.00 p.m and there was sufficient moon light. A little later the witness's

son had arrived at the scene of the crime and both Accused attacked the

deceased with a sword (to the head of the deceased). Witness very clearly saw

the incident and was able to identify the two Accused persons, who fled the

scene of the crime. The other witness one Abeysinghe had stated that it was

about 7.00 p.m. when he heard the deceased uttering the words" ~ ®C)

~ ~dx!dl'. He was able to identify the voice. Thereafter the witness

realized that the deceased had been attacked.

I

r I I

f r !IIf f f I I

-,

1

i

I II i i I II I ! I

4

Another witness one Ratnayake Mudiyanselage Mahinda Bandara,

before the High Court testified that the deceased witness (deceased's father)

had told him when he went to the scene of the crime and that "sse C5)~

~~)" . (Accused-Appellant attacked the deceased).

Court has to exercise power under Section 33 of the Evidence

Ordinance with great caution and must insist on strict proof before holding

that the witness is dead. The exercise of such a discretion is subject to review

by the Appellate Court, 48 NLR at 25. However evidence that is admitted by

Section 33 are received as substantive evidence of the testimony given in a

formal Judicial Proceedings. It is intended to prove the truth of facts stated.

The case in hand does not reveal that the dicta in Stephen Vs. Queen 67 CLW

48 had been violated. Further the Accused party had not objected to the

deposition at the non-summary inquiry being led in the High Court.

The medical officer concerned also gave evidence and produced the

Medico Legal Report marked P2. The Doctor describes four injuries. Inquiry

No. (1) is fatal and No. (2) is grievous injury, and the other two injuries are

non-grievous injuries. The sword which was recovered on a Section 27

l ! I I I

f

f t ! t t I

i ! ! I i !'

5

statement, had been produced at the trial. The Doctor was shown the sword in

question and he confirmed that injuries could have been caused by such a

sword.

The learned counsel for the Accused-Appellant argued that his client

did not share a murderous common intention. He also emphasized that the

deceased had been drunk at the time of the incident. The Accused-Appellant

did not have a sword or bring a sword, to the scene of the crime. Learned

Senior State Counsel supported the prosecution case.

The deposition relied upon by the prosecution (P4) very clearly

makes one understand that the deceased was attacked by both Accused

persons by a sword. It struck the deceased head. P4 indicates that the witness

was also cross-examined. The injuries caused by the sword is consistent with

the injuries described in the Medico Legal Report. The learned trial Judge has

given her mind to the aspect of being attacked by a sword by both Accused

persons. Depositions are no doubt substantial evidence if correctly admitted

by law. There is a duty cast on the deceased Accused person and the Accused-

Appellant to have provided a reasonable explanation in the context and

circumstances of this case. The Accused-Appellants mere dock statement does

not in any event cast a reasonable doubt in the prosecution case and the

6

learned High Court Judge very correctly rejected the defence of the Accused-

Appellant. There is also motive for the murder being a dispute over cultivation.

This court is not so convinced of the argument put forward by the learned

defence counsel. We are not inclined to interfere with the verdict of the

learned High Court Judge. As such we affirm the conviction and sentence and

proceed to dismiss this appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

P.R. Walgama J.

I agree.

p. ~.::..~~

JUDGE ~RT OF APPEAL