==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A. No. 1163/1998 F D.C.Galle No. 12023/L

K.A. Karolis Padilihewatte, Malagoda, Wanwawala.

Appellant Vs. Sirisena Gunawardane No:221, Matara Road, Unawatuna, Galle.

Respondent

1

C.A. No. 1163/1998F) D.C.Galle No. 12023/L

BEFORE K.T. CHITRASIRI, J.

COUNSEL Parties are absent and unrepresented.

DECIDED ON 31 st January, 2014.

***********

K.T. CHITRASIRI, J.

Upon preparation of the briefs, the Registrar of this Court

has sent notices to the parties as well as to their registered Attorneys

directing them to collect the briefs and to be present in this Court on

12th December, 2013. When this matter was mentioned on that date

namely, 12th December, 2013 neither the parties nor their Attorneys

were present in Court, even though the notices referred to above had

been sent under registered cover to the addresses given in the petition of

appeal. Also, it is to be noted that those notices have not been returned.

Accordingly, this Court had no option than to fIx the matter for

argument in their absence. The case was taken up for argument today.

The parties are not present even today.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the judgment dated

28th of August 1998 of the learned District Judge of Galle. In that

~

J

t

JI r

~ lII

tIIt!l,

If!II

2 l

f

judgment the learned trial Judge decided the case m favour of the Iplaintiff-respondent whilst rejecting the claim of the defendant-

appellant. The respondent filed this action seeking for a judgment

declaring inter alia that he is the owner of the land referred to in the I

4th schedule to the plaint and to have the appellant ejected therefrom.

The appellant in his answer has prayed for a declaration that the

plaintiff is holding the property in trust for the defendant-appellant

while seeking to have the plaint of the plaintiff dismissed. Learned

District Judge decided to reject the claim of constructive trust of the

appellant and has concluded that the land in question belongs to the

responden t.

The respondent has established that he is the owner of the

land particularly by producing the deeds bearing Nos. 2858 and 20058

marked P5 and P7 in evidence. The evidence contained in those two

deeds have not been challenged. Therefore, it is clear that the plaintiff

has established that he is the owner of the premises in suit.

Then the next issue is whether the appellant was able to

establish his claim made on the basis of constructive trust. The law in

this regard is governed by Section 83 of the Trust Ordinance.

3

Accordingly, determining the question of constructive trust depends on

the attendant circumstances of each and every case.

The appellant has taken up the position that he has paid

Rs.1500/= to the plaintiff's father when the said father purchased the

property for Rs.8000/=. However, other than the oral evidence of the

appellant, no evidence is found, to prove that the appellant has

contributed a sum of Rs. 1500/= to pay the consideration when the

property was purchased by the father of the respondent. Learned

District Judge too having heard the evidence of the appellant has

rejected to accept such a position. Therefore, I am not inclined to

interfere with such findings since the trial Judge is the best person to

decide on such matters. Other than the aforesaid oral evidence of the

appellant, no other evidence is forthcoming to establish that the

appellant was instrumental in purchasing the property. Therefore, it is

correct to reject the claim of the appellant.

However, the appellant has given evidence stating that he

had made considerable improvements to the property in question. It is

not a matter that can be considered in order to determine constructive

trust. In such a situation, the defendant could have made a claim for

compensation for the improvements that he has made. However, the

I

~ , i

I I! If

4

learned District Judge has stated that the appellant has not established

the manner in which the improvements were made. He also has found

that there were no particular improvements made by the appellant.

Once again, it is a matter that involves facts of the case. Therefore, I

am not inclined to interfere with the decision of the learned District

Judge as to the claim made on the improvements supposed to have

made by the appellant as well.

For the aforesaid reasons, I am not inclined to interfere with

the judgment of the learned District Judge. Accordingly, this appeal is

dismissed without costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Kwk/=

Ii f i

\ I ! , It r f I

I II ) , 1 t ! t t [ 1\ I t , I !

f III