==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

CA (Writ) Application No.56/2012

In the matter of an application for Writs of Certiorari and Mandamus in terms of Article 140 of the Constitution.

1. Wadduwage Muditha Saman Kumara

Perera, No.228, Galle Road, Thalpitiya North, Wadduwa. 2. Gammadde Thandakkara Mala J anithangani,

No.93, P.B. Alwis Perera Mawatha, Katubedda, Moratuwa. 3. Indrajith Jayawardena, No.93, John Rodrigo Mawatha, Katubedda, Moratuwa. 4. Hewavitharanage Malani, "Nirmala", Hettiyawala, Puhulwella, Matara. 5. Thamara Ramani Naotunna, Kommala, Wadumulla, Ben tar a. 6. Weerahannadige Manisha Kamani Lakshmi Chandra Femando, No.9, Goods Shed Road, Panadura. 7. Kande Gamage Chandrasena, No.17 /8, Visal Uyana, Hirana, Panadura.

Petitioners

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued on

Written submission on

Decided on

2

Vs.

1. Tri-Star Apparel Export (pvt) Ltd. No.30, Maligawa Road, Ratmalana. 2. Sobitha Dharmawansa, The Arbitrator

Hon. President of the Labour Tribunal No.2, Vauxhall Street, Colombo. 3. Gamini Lokuge

Minister of Labour Labour Secretariat Narahenpitiya Colombo 05. 4. Commissioner General of Labour Department of Labour Narahenpitiya Colombo 05. 5. Inter-Company Employees Union No.l00/9, Kandy Road

Dalugama Kelaniya.

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

W.M.M.MALINIE GUNARATNE, J

Shantha Jayawardena,

for the Petitioner

Priyantha J ayawardena PC

for the 1st Respondent

M.Fernando DSG

for the 3rct and 4th Respondent

15.07.2013

Respondents

10.072013 (1st Respondent), 15.07.2013 (Petitioner)

31.07.2013

3

S.Sriskandarajah,J

The Petitioners submitted that they were employees of the 1st Respondent Tri-Star

Apparel Export (pvt) Ltd. 1783 employees, including the Petitioners were laid-off by the 1st

Respondent Company after obtaining permission from the Commissioner General of Labour,

for a period of 3 months, subject to payment of 50% of the monthly wages. The permission

granted by the Commissioner General of Labour is to lay-off employees of the 10 factories of

the 1st Respondent Company, and the said permission was not covering the employees

attached to the head office or to the Thalawala Complex. As the Petitioners were attached to

the head office and Thalawala Complex, they were also illegally laid-off by the 1st Respondent

and, thereafter, after the lapse of 3 months from the date of the lay-off, the Petitioners were not

given employment by the 1st Respondent. The dispute of not employing the employees who

were laid-off by the 1st Respondent Company was referred under Section 4(1) of the Industrial

Disputes Act for arbitration. The industrial dispute that was formulated for resolution was as

follows:-

"Whether the non-offer of employment to the employees of the factories of Tri-Star

Apparel Export (pvt) Limited, situated at Girandurukotte, Nilwala, Hasalaka,

Kekanadura, Ambalantota, Badulla, Buttala and Kamburupitiya, and the head office,

Maliga Stores Complex and Thalawala Complex, whose names are referred by the said

Company is justified and, if not, to what relief each of the said employees is entitled?"

In the arbitration proceedings, the 5th Respondent Trade Union appeared on behalf of the

Petitioners as well as the other workers. In the said proceedings, the 1st Petitioner and the

Deputy Chairman of the 1st Respondent Company gave evidence and documents were marked

on behalf of the Trade Union and the 1st Respondent Company. The Petitioners submitted that

the 1st Respondent has violated the conditions laid down by the Commissioner of Labour and

has even failed to pay the half wages during the time of the lay-off and, thereafter, when the

dispute was referred to arbitration, and when the arbitration proceedings were pending, the

Petitioners submitted that the Petitioners and even the other employees had received letters

from the 1st Respondent that certain vacancies had occurred and, therefore, to state in writing

whether the Petitioners were willing to be recalled for service. The Petitioners submitted that

4

they accepted the offer of employment and went to the head office and to the Thalawala

Complex, but the 1st Respondent refused to re-employ the Petitioners. It is the submission of

the Petitioners that they were not falling within the category of employees who were laid-off,

but they were, in fact, laid-off by the 1st Respondent for a period of 3months and, even after the

end of the said 3 months, the 1st Respondent failed to re-employ them. These facts were placed

before the Arbitrator, and the Arbitrator, on 23/09/2011, had observed that certain employees

had not taken up employment when it was offered by the 1st Respondent and some of the

employees, including the 1st Petitioner, had improved their economic status since they lost

their jobs with the 1st Respondent and he further observed that on the evidence it appears that

there was no clear date on which the services of the workers were terminated and that an

Arbitrator could not investigate as to when such termination occurred. The Arbitrator further

observed that the reference for arbitration was worded improperly and did not state that the

services were terminated, but instead stated that the employees were not offered employment

and, as the said reference was vague, the Arbitrator had not ordered any relief for the affected

employees. The said award was published in the Government Gazette on the 4th of January

2012 bearing No.1379/14. The Petitioners in this application have sought a writ of certiorari to

quash the said Arbitration Award as far as it relates to the Petitioners.

The Arbitrator derives his jurisdiction from a reference made by the Commissioner or

Minister, and he will assume jurisdiction if the dispute falls within the definition of Industrial

Disputes in the Industrial Disputes Act.

Disputes Act as follows:-

Industrial Dispute is defined in the Industrial

"Industrial Dispute means, any dispute or difference between an employer and a

workman or between employers and workmen or between workmen and workmen

connected with the employment or non-employment or the terms of employment or

with the conditions of labour or the termination of the service or the reinstatement in

service of any person and for the purpose of the definition, 'workmen' includes, a Trade

Union consisting of workmen."

..

5

As defined in the Industrial Disputes Act, an industrial dispute includes non-

employment. In this instant case, Petitioners have complained that they were workmen of the

1st Respondent Company, and this position was admitted by both parties in the arbitration

proceedings, and there is no dispute that these Petitioners were not offered employment at the

end of the period of lay-off, and due to this dispute, a complaint was made and a reference

under Section 4(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act was made for arbitration. While the

proceedings before the Arbitrator is pending, offering employment to the Petitioners or any

employees will not bring the arbitration proceedings to an end or the dispute referred for

arbitration to an end. The Arbitrator has a duty to make a just and equitable award. He need

not confine himself to the terms of the contract of employment; he can create new rights and

new obligation between parties. A just and equitable order of an Arbitrator is illustrated by

Justice Wanasundera in Tirimanne Vs. Sivanesan and others 1981, 1 SLR at 185 as follows:-

"What the award seeks to do is to resolve the dispute of formulating a new set of terms

and conditions which are fair and reasonable to both parties and imposing such terms

on the parties so that the terms and conditions will supersede the original position of the

parties and provide a new relationship that would henceforth guide the conduct of the

parties to the terms and conditions that are statutorily made, implying the terms of the

contract of employment."

In the instant case, the dispute was referred to the Arbitrator to decide whether the non-

offer of employment to the employees of the factories of Tri-Star Apparel Export (Pvt) Limited

by the said Company is justified and, if not, to what relief each of the said employees is

entitled. An Arbitrator, in arriving at a conclusion, has to decide whether the non-offer of

employment is justified or not. Non-offer of employment can be equated or interpreted to

non-employment; it is a constructive termination of employment of an employee. The

Arbitrator has failed to consider this aspect and consider the circumstances in which the

employees of the 1st Respondent Company were terminated, and he has also failed to consider

any relief to the affected workmen. As the award was only challenged by the petitioners in

these proceedings, and as the other employees or the Trade Union has not made an application

challenging the said award, and as the other employees and the Tri-Star Union were not made

6

party to this application, this Court restricts the relief only to the Petitioners' award and issue a

writ of certiorari to quash the said award in relation to the Petitioners.

The Petitioners also have sought a writ of mandamus directing the Arbitrator, the znct

Respondent, to make a fresh award in respect of the Petitioners. Once an award is made the

Arbitrator becomes defunct and, therefore, Court cannot make any direction to the Arbitrator.

In these circumstances the grant of mandamus will be futile. This Court only issues a writ of

certiorari to quash the said arbitral award only in relation to the Petitioners. The application

for a writ of certiorari as aforesaid is allowed without costs.

President of the Court of Appeal

W.M.M.Malinie Gunaratne, J

I agree,

Judge of the Court of Appeal