==== BLOCKS ==== 

,

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA 1074/96 DC Homagama 1716/L

Madapatha

Jayaratna,

Kankanamge

No 665, Galawila Road,

Homagma

PLAINTIFF-APPELLANT

-Vs-

D H Weerasiri,

High Level Road,

(Adjoining Wasantha Hotel)

Homagama

DEFENDANT-REPONDENT

Before: A.W.A. SALAM, J.

Counsel:

R Chula Bandara for the plaintiff-appellant and Harsha

Soza PC with Srihan Samaranayaka for the defendant-

respondent.

Argued on: 18.10.2010.

Written Submissions tendered on: 8 & 11 October 2010.

Decided on: 28.04.2011

Don

A W A Salam,J T

he question that arises for determination at this stage

of this appeal is whether the plaintiff has the right to

invoke the appellate jurisdiction by exercising the right of

appeal, as he has purportedly done. The Learned President's

Counsel has raised a preliminary objection in that he

submits that the impugned decision is an interlocutory order

in nature and it's legality can be challenged only after the

leave of this court is first had and obtained in terms of

section 754 (2) of the Civil Procedure Code. It is common

ground that the impugned decision dated 6 December 1995

relates to issue No 19. For purpose of ready reference issue

No 19 is reproduced below ...

19. In any event does proceedings No 2521/Land operates as Res Judicata against the plaintiff who has purchased rights from Somawathie?

The issue arising from No 19 is numbered as 20 and reads

as to whether the plaintiff can maintain the action if the

issue relating to res judicata is answered in the affirmative.

The trial judge having considered the impact of the previous

action No 2521/L on this case, came to the conclusion that

it operates against the plaintiff as res judicata and therefore

the plaintiffs action against the defendant IS not

maintainable in law.

.UI»A.S.iL.lb.S:

t,

The learned President's counsel submits that !L issue No 19

was answered in the negative the trial would have proceeded

to the very end and the impugned decision in the result

would be an interlocutory order and not a final order.

The vital question that arises here is whether the impugned

decision would have finally determined the litigation either

way? If the order was given in favour of the appellant, he

would never have filed this appeal because the action had to

be continued in the district court.

Having considered the recent judgment of the Supreme

Court in the case of S Rajendran Chettiar and others Vs S

Narayanan Chettiar, I am of the view that the preliminary

objection raised by the learned President's Counsel should

be upheld. In the result, I hold that the impugned decision in

this matter is appealable only by way of an interlocutory

appeal after the leave of this court is first had and obtained.

Hence, the appeal of the plaintiff-appellant is dismissed.

There shall be no costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

NTj-

CA 10 4/ -oJ. ,