==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A. 33611997 (F) D.C Colombo 11316/MR

Union Trust and Investment Limited (Formerly known as Maharajah Investments Ltd) No. 347 Union Place Colombo 02.

PLAINTIFF

Vs.

1. H. S. Parakrama

2.

No. 29/ A Auburn Side, Dehiwala.

8. J. Sarath de F onseka No. 36/6, Lady de Soysa Drive, Uyana, Moratuwa.

DEFENDANTS

8.J .. Sarath de F onseka No. 36/6, Lady de Soysa Drive, Uyana, Moratuwa.

2nd DEFENDANT -APPELLANT

Vs.

f l I

\

I f

\

1 t

~ r I I I

J

\

I I I I

I, t " r ! i f I

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERA TNE J.

1. Union Trust and Investment Limited (Fonnerly known as Maharajah Investments Ltd) No. 347 Union Place Colombo 02. Presently (Under Liquidation) No. 30-211, GalleRoad, Colombo 6.

PLAINTIFF -RESPONDENT

1. H. S. Parakrama No. 29/ A Auburn Side, Dehiwala.

1st DEFENDANT-RESPONDENT

Anil Gooneratne J.

Anil Silva P.C for the 2nd Defendant-Appellant

D. Ratnayake for the Plaintiff-Respondent

29.8.2011

07.10.2011

2

In this action the Plaintiff Company filed action against the

Defendants to recover a sum of Rs. 100,310/51 based on a lease agreement

and Guarantee Bond. The principal debtor was the 1 st Defendant and the 2nd

I I ; I I ! i ! I i I t

f I t I

r ! ! I

f I t I !

3

Defendant was the guarantor. This court was informed that the 1 st Defendant

was not in the country and as such summons could not be served in the

District Court. Thereafter trial proceeded in the original court against the

2nd Defendant (Guarantor). On or about 6.6.1997 judgment was pronounced

in favour of the Plaintiff. The judgment indicates that 10 issues had been

answered by the District Judge and issue No. 10 answered in favour of

Plaintiff and against the 2nd Defendant as prayed for in sub paragraphs 'a' &

'b' of the prayer to the plaint.

The only short point argued before me by either counsel was on

the question of demand, by Letter of Demand and that whether cause of

action had arisen or not to sue the 2nd Defendant on the Guarantee Bond

marked P12. Learned President counsel took up the position that his client

the 2nd Defendant-Appellant never received a letter of demand and that he

was not resident at the address referred to in the Guarantee Bond marked

P 12 at the time and date when the letter of demand had been dispatched and

emphasized on certain items of evidence led in the trial Court especially

regarding dispatch of the Letter of Demand and sought to demonstrate to this

court that no reliance could be placed regarding the dispatch of the Letter of

Demand and that evidence cannot be acted upon to come to a conclusion that

the cause of action arose as against the 2nd Defendant-Appellant

II! r f I f f ! f ! I I I !

\ Ir

~ t ! I r I I i ! I ,

4

It was the evidence inter alia of Plaintiff witness who was the

Accountant of the Plaintiff Company, that Plaintiff entered into agreement

marked PI with the 1 st Defendant and the items referred to in the schedule to

PI was leased to 1 st Defendant. Further at pg. 6 of PI the lease rental was

Rs. 1,27,65.65 per month which cover a period of 44 months. The initial

payment was Rs. 1062.80. At the time of entering into agreement PI initial

four instalements were paid. The item referred to in the schedule had been

given to the 1 st Defendant. The 1 st Defendant had paid Rs. 82721.89.

Statement of Account was marked P2. The 1 st Defendant had from time to

time paid rentals. Having given credit to the 1 st Defendant for the payments

made, a sum of Rs. 1,78,4001- was due (vide P2). The agreement was

determined and Letter of Demand P3 was sent to 1 st Defendant. Copy of

Letter of Demand sent to the 2nd Defendant marked P4. Letter of Demand P4

marked subject to proof. The registered postal article was marked P5.

(pertain to both P3 & P4). The Guarantee Bond P 12 was also produced and

marked in evidence. The guarantor was the 2nd Defendant. Witness who

gave evidence for Plaintiff had signed agreement PI as a witness. In cross-

examination on the question of default of payment witness state that

principal debtor (1 st Defendant) was notified. Guarantors are also notified of

default of payment.

\

! t I k i , I I i f [ I !

f ! I I f t I I

~ I

5

The learned President's Counsel drew the attention of this court

to the following items of evidence in cross-examination to demonstrate that

the 2nd Defendant was not notified of default of payment. Leading questions

suggested by the Counsel for 2nd Defendant at the trial are included in the

proceedings as follows:

c ooE)

Q ~ et§}e> ®) @COk'511 ro SC)6)e» @®® 6)~@E) 2 E)ciffi~oz;C) SS® ~z;§}® ~®~ @6)~O

rn®) oo~ 02 e>z;B> E)ciffi~oz; (S)z;C)c.oC) o®~65w ro ffi@~65@65 tffiaxg)?

If one peruse the above evidence it could be suggested that in a

way the witness does not specifically state he dispatched the letter of

demand to the 2nd Defendant. That part of the evidence is somewhat weak

but court is mindful of the fact that to some of the above leading questions

witness does not give a specific answer or reject the position put forward by

I ! \ I,

f I I f ! ,

I I:

I I I , i

i i

~ ! r ! II' i I t I t 1 i I I

t I f I ! I

6

the 2nd Defendant. Even if the oral evidence is weak or suggest a confused

state of mind of the witness, documents P5 & P6 were produced without

objection. Further at the closure of Plaintiffs case all documents were read

in evidence (PI - P12) without any objection to document P4. In re-

examination an attempt is made to explain that in terms of P4 receipt P5 &

schedule P6 are referred to in order to support dispatch. Though learned

President's Counsel thought it fit to comment and criticize P6 as it only refer

to the name and place (Moratuwa) without the address, I am unable to agree

with learned President's Counsel on that aspect. Experience shows that

postal authorities do not refer to precise details in their records. It may not

represent the correct details of address etc. But official act are deemed to be

properly performed. (Section 114 illustration (d) of Evidence Ordinance).

Learned District Judge has answered issue No.8 regarding cause of action of

the 2nd Defendant and state a cause of action has arisen as against the 2nd

Defendant. (though reasoning to that answer is not suggested).

I would at this point in my judgment advert to the following

authorities which would highlight the position of Guarantee Bond and as to

when and at what point the cause of action would arise.

I i 1 I f I ! t ! II I

~ ) f I , ! I J t I I I

7

As stated in "The Law relating to Banking" (4th Ed.) by T G Reeday at page 322:

"The bank can at any time make a demand for immediate repayment ... The bank need

not sue the debtor before resorting to the guarantor.

As regards limitation of actions, if the guarantor promises to pay on demand, as is

customary in bank guarantees, no right of action accrues against him until a demand for

payment has been made: Bradford Old Bank v. Sutcliffe (1919). Consequently, until

such demand has been made of him ... time does not begin to run in favour of the

guarantor" .

Practice & Law of Banking - W. Rajapakshe P.c. Pgs. 2801281 ...

Unlike in fixed loan, in overdraft facilities, the liability of the guarantor arises

only upon the repayment is demanded from the guarantor. Under normal

circumstances the banker needs not sue the principal before he takes action to

recover the outstanding amount from the guarantor. But if the guarantee contract

provides otherwise, the banker shall follow such terms as in the agreement. In any

event the banker can sue the guarantor only after he makes a proper demand from

the guarantor and after the lapse of the period given in the demand notice to re-

pay the dues.

In Sivasubramaniam, Appellant, and Alagamuttu, Respondent

S.C 449 - D.C Jaffna, 3,818 - pg. 150.

On July 25, 1940, plaintiff deposited with the defendant, who was not a banker, a

sum of Rs. 928. In acknowledgment a document was given the construction of which

indicated that the document had to be surrounded and a request made before payment

could be claimed. Plaintiff made demand for the repayment of the money on July 18,

1947.

f Il III I ! i ! I; ! I ;

8

In an action instituted on September 15, 1947, on the footing that "plaintiff

deposited with the defendant a sum of Rs. 928 and the defendant agreed and undertook to

pay the said sum with interest at 6 per cent. per annum whenever demanded" -

Held, that the cause of action accrued to the plaintiff only on July 18,1947, and that the

claim was therefore not prescribed ...

Pg.153.

It seems to me that the Roman Dutch Law should govern the rights of the present

parties. Under the Roman Dutch Law, unlike under the English Law, it is for the creditor

to seek out the debtor to claim payment. Even in the case of a simple loan, "where no

time has been fixed for repayment, it is not immediately claimable but after the lapse of a

reasonable time' so that it would be seen that under our common law a demand is

essential before it could be said that a cause of action accrues to a creditor to sue the

debtor. But, as was rightly remarked by Bankers L.J. in the case of Joachimson v. Swiss

Bank Corporation (supra) "In every case, therefore, where this question arises, the test

must be whether the parties have or have not agreed that an actual demand shall be a

condition precedent to the existence of a present enforceable debt," and it is therefore

necessary to see whether there are any special terms of agreement between the parties

throwing light on the question for determination in this case, irrespective of the question

whether the English or the Roman Dutch Law applies.

Practice and Law of Banking - P.J.M. Fidler, Pg. 309 ...

In Parr's Banking Co. v. Yates it was held that, in the case of an overdraft, each

advance becomes due as and when it is made by the banker, but in Joachimson v. Swiss

Bank Corporation it was suggested that an advance made on overdraft does not become

due until the banker has actually demanded repayment. The second view is now generally

preferred, and in any event the point can be put beyond doubt as regards the guarantor by

[ II

f. I I ! f: I t ~ I! I ! ! ; ! , I ! J

\

t l r f l

r ! i i I

f I

~ ! ! II

~ ! I I I I !

9

specifying in the guarantee that the liability of the guarantor arises only when demand has

been made on the guarantor.

As regards admission of document P4 (although marked subject

to proof) in evidence and it's evidentiary value I refer to the case of Sri

Lanka Ports Authority Vs. Jugo (lnija - BOAL East 1981 (1) SLR 18 at 19

& 24 ... If no objections taken when at the close of a case documents are

read in evidence they are evidence for all purposes of the law. This is the

Cursus Curiae of the original courts.

I would also incorporate the latest view on the above case. vide

Latheef and another vs. Mansoor 2011 BLR at 204 ...

There remains, however, one more matter on which learned Counsel for the

contending parties have made submissions, which was raised in the context that

the usual practice of reading in evidence the documents that were marked and

produced at the trial in the course of witness testimony was not followed when the

case for the Respondents was closed on 2ih April 1993. This is substantive

question 5, which specifically focuses on this issue, namely: is it mandatory to

read the documents in evidence at the conclusion of the trial? There is no

provision in the Civil Procedure Code that mandates the reading in of the marked

documents at the close of the case of a particular party. However, learned and

experienced Counsel who have appeared in the original courts in civil cases from

time immemorial developed such a practice, which has received the recognition of

our courts. For instance, in Sri Lanka Ports Authority and Another v. Jugolinija-

Boat East (1981) 1 Sri LR 18 Samarakoon, C.J., commented on this practice, and

ventured to observe at pages 23 to 24 of his judgment that if no objection to any

particular marked documents is taken when at the close of a case documents are

read in evidence, "they are evidence for all purposes of the law." It has been held

10

that this is the cursus curiae of the original courts. See, Silva v. Kindersle (1915-

1916) 18 NLR 85; Adaicappa Chettiar v. Thomas Cook and Son (1930) 31 NLR

385 Perera v. Seyed Mohomed (1957) 58 NLR 246; Balapitiya Gunananda Thero

v. Tolalle Methananda Thero (1997) 2 Sri LR 10 1; Cinemas Limited v.

Sounderarajan (1998) 2 Sri LR 16; Stassen Exports Ltd., v. Brooke Bond Group

Ltd., and Two Others (2010) BLR 249.

When I consider all the facts and circumstances and the law

applicable to Guarantee Bonds I am unable to come to a conclusion that no

cause of action has arisen. The 2

nd Defendant is liable on the Guarantee

Bond (P12) and the cause of action has duly arisen as far as the 2

nd

Defendant is concerned on the dispatch of Letter of Demand marked P4.

Even if oral evidence is weak, still document P4 is duly admitted in evidence

without an objection at the closure of the Plaintiff case. Further P4 has not

been returned by the postal authorities. Documents P5 and P6 prove the fact

that the letter (P4) was not returned and it has been duly dispatched and

handed over to the address referred to therein. I am not in a position to

excuse the Appellant merely because he was not present in the given

address, or that he has changed the address during the relevant period. As far

as the Plaintiff is concerned letter P4 is dispatched according to the details

given to the Plaintiff company by the Defendants. Court should not permit

an abuse of the process. P4, P5 & P6 are a legally admissible document.

(vide Jugolinija's case) Court is entitled to presume that document P4 has

f Il II

i f I ! ! !

~

11

been duly dispatched as evidence does not suggest that it was returned by the

Postal Department.

I have considered the case of Podisingho vs. P.A.W. Perera 75

N.L.R 333. I do not think that any parallel could be drawn from the said case

with the case in hand. The case in hand there is nothing to state that the

address of the Defendant-Appellant was incorrectly addressed. P4 given the

correct address. P5 should be considered along with P6. One cannot expect

the postal authorities to include all details of addresses of each and every

person (addressees). The name is correct in P6. Further P6 refer to 15

registered letters dispatched and the Appellant is one among the 15 names.

This is sufficient proof of dispatch. I am not in a position to consider the

dicta in the above case since those facts and circumstances are different from

the case in hand. To hold with the Appellant on this aspect would lead to an

unacceptable/illegal abuse of process.

A person who accepted registered letter P4 has accepted it on

behalf of the 2nd Defendant or else same could have been returned to the

postal authorities. I reject the contention of learned President's Counsel on

this aspect. Therefore I hold that the 2nd Defendant is liable to be sued on the

Guarantee Bond and that on default of the principal debtor the 15t Defendant,

law makes the 2nd Defendant liable. Though the learned District Judge has

,

! l I II ! II ! I Il

I II

t !, II I t 1

12

not given much reasons for his conclusions I find that all issues have been

answered correctly. Even if it is suggested that the original court Judge erred

in certain respect I state that his ultimate conclusions to hold that the 2nd

Defendant is liable cannot be faulted. There are no material lapses in the

judgment of the original court. In any event in terms of the proviso to

Article 138(1) of the Constitution I observe that no failure of justice or any

prejudice has been caused to either party to vary the judgment of the original

court. I affirm the judgment of the learned District Judge. Appeal dismissed

with costs fixed at Rs. 20,0001-.

Appeal dismissed.

GJ ~Q go" ,-,;,--9",

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

I I

I I

f If I I! ,

f f I f I I I I

\