==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

Case No: CA 1173/98(Final) D.C. Galle Case No: 13207/L

Madduma Liyanage Podinona, Gonala Junction, Unawatuna.

Plaintiff -Vs- Korale Kankanamge Gimara, Dedugodawatta, Uluwitike, Galle.

Defendant AND NOW BETWEEN Korale Kankanamge Gimara, Dedugodawatta, Uluwitike, Galle.

Defendant-Appellant -Vs- Madduma Liyanage Podinona, Gonala Junction, Unawatuna.

Plaintiff-Respondent

C.A. No. 1173/98(F) D.C. Galle 13207 /L

Before K. T. Chitrasiri,J

Counsel N .A. Gunawardhana with E. Ariyarathna for the Defendant-Appellant.

Argued &

Decided on

K. T. Chitrasiri, J

Lilanthi de Silva for the Aggrieved Party Petitioner.

21.02.2013.

Counsel for the defendant-appellant submits that the

Registered Attorney of the appellant has written to the defendant and

also has informed him by way of a telephone call directing him to give

instructions for them to appear in this case. He further submits that

despite those requests the defendant has failed to give instructions to

proceed with this appeal. Accordingly, it is clear that the appellant is

not prosecuting this appeal diligently.

When this matter was mentioned in this Court on the very first

day, it was brought to the notice of Court that the whereabouts of the

plaintiff-respondent were not known. It was also informed that the

plaintiff had gone missing. Despite those submissions, the defendant

1

appellant has failed to take steps to substitute the heirs of the

plaintiff-respondent as yet.

At this stage, Lilanthi de Silva Attorney -at- Law submits that

she has filed a petition in which the petitioner is M.P. Sumithra who

is an outsider, in order to substitute the two children of the plaintiff-

respondent. The said petition is dated 25.04.2012.

As mentioned hereinbefore it is the duty of the defendant-

appellant to take steps to proceed with this appeal. She has not even

given instructions to the lawyers to prosecute the appeal. Neither has

she taken steps to substitute the heirs of the plaintiff-respondent if

her whereabouts are not known. In the circumstances, acting under

Rule 34 of the Supreme Court Rules, I make order dismissing the

appeal. No costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge or the Court or Appeal

Na/-

2