==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA APPEAL NO: CA 1031/98 (F) DC Kegalla Case No: 1532/L

1. Devika Banganadessalage Rani, Kolongalla.

2. Diwulwewagedara Siripala, Kolongalla.

PLAINTIFFS Vs.

1. Meddewattegedara Pini, Kolongalla.

2. Meddewattegedara Gunaratne, Kolongalla.

DEFENDANTS And between 1. Meddewattegedara Pini (Deceased), Kolongalla.

2. Meddewattegedara Gunaratne, Kolongalla.

DEFENDANTS-APPELLANTS Vs.

1. Devika Banganadessalage Rani, Kolongalla.

2. Diwulwewagedara Siripala, Kolongalla.

PLAINTIFFS - RESPONDENTS And now between

Meddewattegedara Ruparatne, Kolongalla.

PETITIONER Vs. 1. Devika Banganadessalage Rani, Kolongalla. 2. Diwulwewagedara Siripala, Kolongalla.

PLAINTIFFS RESPONDENTS-RESPONDENTS

C.A 1031/98

Before:

Counsel:

Argued &

Decided on

1

D.C. Kegalle 1532/L

K.T.Chitrasiri, J.

D.M.G. Dissanayake for the Defendant-Appellant. Manori Pathirana for the Plaintiff -Respondent.

15.07.2013.

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J.

In this case, the petition of appeal has been filed naming the 1st

and the 2nd defendants namely, Pini and Gunarathne as the two

appellants. Said Pini was the mother of the 2nd defendant Gunarathna.

At this stage, both counsel concede that the 2nd defendant- appellant

had passed away by the time the petition of appeal had been filed. They

also concede that seven parties have been substituted on 27.07.1976 in

place of the deceased 2nd defendant though they were not been named

as parties in the petition of appeal. (Journal entry 16 found at page 24 of

the appeal brief ) .

Therefore, it is clear that those seven substituted defendants who

were substituted in place of the 2nd defendant have not been made a

party to the petition of appeal though they have become parties to the

action by the time the petition of appeal was filed. Those parties who

were substituted in place of the 2nd defendant were his wife and his

children. One of his children who had become a substituted defendant

-------------------------------------------

'

2

namely, Maddewattegedara Ruparathne has filed a petition moving to

have him substituted in place of the 1st defendant appellant who had

died after filing of this appeal, on the basis that he is one of the grand

children of the deceased 1st defendant appellant. The said application to

have the said M.Ruparathne substituted, was rejected on the basis that

there were no supporting evidence to establish the relationship between

the petitioner, M.Ruparathne and the deceased 1st defendant appellant

namely Pini.

In the circumstances, it is clear that the petition of appeal in this

case had been filed by a person who supposed to have passed away by

the time the petition of appeal was filed instead of his heirs who were

already been made parties to the action. Moreover no application has so

far been made by the heirs of the deceased 1st defendant- appellant to

have them substituted in order to prosecute this appeal. Therefore, this

Court makes an order abating the appeal. Appeal abated.

In view of the order made today, the proceedings in this case are

terminated.

Proceedings terminated.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

Vkg/-