==== BLOCKS ==== 

1 i t t I ! I j

t

j ! , J j I \ I i I I , 1 !

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 7/2012 (Writ)

1. Asilin Hewavitharana

No. 88, Kandasuringdugama

Kataragama

(Deceased)

2. Liyana Pathiranage Lalitha

No. 88, Kandasuringdugama

Kataragama

3. Liyana Pathiranage Karunadasa

No. 278, Yaya - 5

Rajagiriya .

4. Liyana Pathiranage Chandrasiri

No. 133, Pubudu Mawatha

2nd Step

Thambuththegama.

5. Liyana Pathiranage Mulin

No. 338/A, Thekkawatte,

Thambuththegama.

Vs.

PETITIONERS

1

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERATNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

1. The Minister of Lands &

Land Development

The Ministry of Land &

Land Development

No. SO/5, Govijana Mandiraya

Rajamalwatta Lane, Battaramulla.

And 7 others

RESPONDENTS

Asoka Fernando with A.R.R. Siriwardena

For Petitioners

Presanna de Zoysa for i h and Sth Respondents

Suranga Wimalasena S.c. for 1st to 6th Respondents

07.02.2014

29.05.2014

2

The five Petitioners in this Writ Application have sought mandates in

the nature of Prohibition/Mandamus and Certiorari. By the amended petition

dated 8.3.2012. Sub paragraphs (e) & (f) of the prayer refer to Writ of

I I I 1 l I I

\ I I

\

3

Certiorari to quash a decision to appoint a successor named therein pertaining

to the land described in the said paragraphs which land were held by deceased

permit holder on Liyana Pathiranage Jamis Appuhamy (decision not annexed).

A Writ of Mandamus compelling 2nd to 6th Respondents to appoint the 2nd

Petitioner as successor to the land described in sub-paragraphs (g) & (h). A

Writ of Prohibition to prevent 4th & 5th Respondents from consenting to

current successor (sub paragraph 'c' of the prayer) for disposition of the land

by sale, mortgage, lease etc. Certain orders and interim relief are also sought.

This court observes that the relief sought are vague and no decisions annexed

to enable this court to grant the remedy sought. On this ground alone this

application need to be rejected.

The body of the petition describes as follows:

(a) 1st Petitioner widow and 2 - 5th Petitioners are the children of the deceased

permit holders above named L.P. Jamis Appuhamy. Deceased permit holder

had not nominated a successor.

(b) 1st Petitioner the widow of the deceased permit holder would succeed as

the successor to the permit subject to Section 48 8(1} of the Land

Development Ordinance, as she had not been nominated.

(c) On Liyanapathirage Dharmadasa had not been nominated as the successor

(paragraph 5 of the petition).

4

(d) The above Liyanapathiranage Dharmadasa obtained thumb impression in

blank sheets of the 1st Petitioner for the purpose referred to in paragraph 6

of the petition. Thereby deceived the 1st Petitioner and obtained the

original -heir ship registered (vide paragraph 6) (e) 1st Petitioner is a

illiterate person

(e) Paragraph 8 to 14 of the petition plead certain irregularities that have

occurred in obtaining a permit by the person named therein.

(f) The rest of the paragraphs in the amended petition refer to complaints

made to authorities etc.

The official Respondents 1st to 5th Respondents reject the position of

the Petitioners as follows:

1. Permit holder, Jamis appuhamy has not nominated a successor during

his life time and further state at the death of the permit holder in terms

of section 48B and Land Order No. 155 of the Land Development

Ordinance 19 of 1935 as amended, the surviving spouse succeeds and

holds the said permit during her/his life time. However, the said spouse

cannot dispose of or nominate a successor to the holding land, but can

renounce her right of life interest.

2. Succession of the said permit has to be considered in terms of Section

72 and the rules of the given in the third Schedule to the Land

Development Ordinance No. 19 of 1035 as amended.

3. 1st Petitioner has presenting herself before the 5th Respondent given

statements stating her intentions of rejecting her rights to holding of the

5

grants f:l~/OXS)/e/l079, f:l~/OXS)/e/1714, during her life time and as

such, to have the succession of the eldest son, (of the original permit

holder and herself) Liyana Pathiranage Dharmadasa, effected. Further,

she has submitted 2 affidavits dated 18.8.2009 and 9.12.2009, in

support of her intention to give up her rights of life interest to the

holding of the said permits/grants. All the statements and the affidavits

have been signed by the 1st Petitioner by inking her thumb impression,

in the presence of the 5th Respondent (or his predecessors).

4. The 5th Respondent acting in terms of the representations made by the

1st Petitioner and taking to account the provisions of section 49 and 72

of the land Development Ordinance, has acted according to law to

certify the succession of the said grants by the said liyana Pathiranage

Dharmadsa.

5. The Respondents further state that the aforesaid procedure carried out

by the 5th Respondent in terms of Section 49 and 72 of the land

Development Ordinance does not constitute to a disposition of the said

land, as averred by the Petitioners. As such, the land orders 137 and 141

does not affect the said situation and effects those dispositions of land

done by the permit/grant holders.

I have also considered the material placed by the th & 8th

Respondents. It is the position as pleaded inter alia by these Respondents

that the deceased liyana Pathiranage Jamis Appuhamy had not nominated

j

6 \

I

any successor and the 1st Petitioner did waive the life interest pertain to

land Nos. LL:62

In all the facts and circumstances of this application this court

observes that the entire petition of the Petitioners and the position urged

are in very many respects prolix and petitioners unnecessarily entertain

disputed facts. Review procedure is not well suited to resolve disputed facts

and questions. As observed above the relief sought in the prayer to the

petition are vague and the required orders not produced or annexed to the

petition. In its absence court cannot consider granting any relief and the

remedies sought are misconceived/misrepresented. These are discretionary

remedies of court and this court cannot exercise its jurisdiction in favour of

the petitioners. As such this application is dismissed with costs.

Application dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL