==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPULBIC OR SRI LANKA CA/PHC/145/2002 PHC Kandy Case No. 212/99

Abdul Saleem Daniyed No.6, Godapola Road, Matale.

4th Respondent-Petitioner- Appellant -Vs- Abdul Saleem Milas No.6, Godapola Road, Matale. Abdul Saleem Rinoos Abdul Saleem Pathima Asuriya No. 6/1, Godapola Road, Matale.

Respondents-Respondents

1

CA. (P.H.e.) 145/2002 P.H.e. Kandy Case No. 212/99

Before

Counse

Argued &

Decided on

K.T. Chitrasiri,J.

Pathadumbara Primary Court Case No. 59928

K.T. Chitrasiri,J. &

Malinie Gunaratne,J.

A.A. de Silva, P.e. with Ajith de Zoysa for the 4th Respondent-Petitioner-

Appellant

Shabry Haleemdeen for the 1st - 3rd Respondent-Respondent-

Respondents

28.11.2014.

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases.

Learned President's Counsel, Mr. A.A. de Silva submits that this application dated

02.12.2013 was made invoking the inherent jurisdiction of this Court relying upon the decisions

including that of Siriniwasa Thero Vs. Sudassi Thero (63 N.L.R. page 31.)

Be that as it may, Section 769(2} of the Civil procedure Code also stipulates that if the

Appellant does not appear either in person or by an Attorney-at-Law, to support his appeal,

the Court shall consider the appeal and make an appropriate order thereof but it also provides

that the Court of Appeal may reinstate such an appeal, if sufficient cause is shown for the

absence of the Appellant. Therefore, for us to act in terms of Section 769(2} of the Civil

Procedure Code, it is necessary to establish sufficient cause, by the Appellant-Petitioner in

order to reinstate the appeal that was dismissed.

2

Learned president's Counsel submitted that the Appellant did not receive the notice

dated 17.09.2012 sent by this Court. However, having perused the Journal Entry entered by the

Registry, it is seen that the Registry has issued notice on the Appellant directing him to be

present in this Court on 26.11.2012. The said notice had been sent under registered cover to

the address given in the Petition of Appeal and it had not been returned. When a notice had

been sent under registered cover, the Court will have to act upon it and decide accordingly.

Accordingly, this Court on 26.11.2012 has come to the conclusion that the Appellant was

absent even though a notice had been sent to him under registered cover directing him to be

present in Court on that date. Therefore, merely because the Appellant-Petitioner has stated

that he did not receive the notice, we are unable to accept such a position.

We also looked at the other Journal Entries entered in this appeal. This matter had

been regularly mentioned in this Court since 06.07.2011. The Appellant-petitioner having paid

the brief fees was present in Court on 23.08.2011. Thereafter, when it was mentioned on

25.10.2011, Mr. Neranjan Jayasinghe, Attorney-at-Law had appeared for the Appellant. His

appearance had been marked on behalf of the Appellant since then. When it was mentioned

on 15.05.2011 also, the Appellant-Petitioner was represented by a counsel. Therefore, we do

not see any reason for the absence of the Appellant on the day the briefs were ready i.e. on

12.09.2012. Indeed, the Court might not have issued notice to the Appellant once again when

it was mentioned on 12.09.2012 since he had been either personally present in Court or was

represented by a counsel till then.

3

Moreover, it is brought to the notice of Court by the learned Counsel for the

Respondent that the Appellant-petitioner was present in the Magistrate's Court on 21.11.2013,

when the matter was mentioned in that Court on that date in order to inform the decision of

this Court. The Appellant was present on that date in the Magistrate's Court having received

the notice which was sent to the same address given in the Petition of Appeal filed in this Court.

Therefore, we are unable to accept the position that the Appellant-Petitioner did not receive

the notice sent by this Court to the address given in the Petition of Appeal. In the

circumstances, it is clear that the decision of this Court made on 26.11.2012, stating that the

Appellant did not prosecute the appeal is RGt incorrect. Considering the circumstances Y

referred to above, it is also clear that the Appellant-Petitioner has failed to show sufficient

cause for his absence on 26.11.2012. Therefore, this Court is not in a position to act in terms of

the proviso to Section 769(2) of the Civil Procedure Code in order to consider the application

for re-instate the Appellant.

The learned President's Counsel also submitted that the proceedings recorded on

26.11.2012 show that only one Judge of the Court of Appeal has decided the appeal since such

a position is found in the Judgment. He referring to the Journal Entry made on that date,

submitted that there were two Judges sitting on the Bench on that particular day even though

the Judgment has been signed only by a single Judge. However, we are of the view that such a

matter cannot be considered in an application for re-listing such as this, since it is purely a

matter that is to be argued in an appeal. Therefore, we are not inclined to consider the said

4

submissions made by the learned President's Counsel. For the aforesaid reasons, this

\ application for re-listing is dismissed. I

Application dismissed.

Malinie Gunaratne,J.

I agree

Cr/-

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APEAl

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

f

fI

tff