==== BLOCKS ==== 

, ! i I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

1. Julinona Wijesekara

2. Sumanawathi Wijesooriya

3. Jayasena Wijesooriya

4. Sirinimal Wijesooriya

5. Neetha Jayanthi Wijesooriya

6. Vineetha Wijesooriya

7. Sujatha Indrani Wijesooriya

All of No.5, 1st Lane

Dharmapala Mawatha

Ampara.

CA. No. 441/2010 (Writ)

Vs.

PETITIONERS

1. Sunil Kannangara

District Secretary of Ampara

District Secretariat,

Ampara.

2. U. P. Indika Anuradha Piyadasa

The Divisional Secretary,

Divisional Secretariat,

Uhana.

3. The Commissioner General of Lands,

The Land Commissioner General's

Department,

No.7, Hector Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,

Colombo 7.

1

!i

III

f

II i ! lII,

\

~r

i i i

ft I!IIIlj

i

f! t

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERATNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J. &

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne J.

4. Deepani Manel Senadeera

No. 26/110, Kumudugama,

Dadayamthalawa,

Amapara.

5. State Mortgage and Investment Bank

No. 269, Galle Road

Colombo 3.

RESPONDENTS

Rasika Dissanayake for Petitioners

Chaya Sri Nammuni S.c., for 1st , 2nd , and 3rd Respondnets

21.10.2013

27.01.2014

2

This is an application for a Writ of Mandamus as per sub paragraphs

Ib' & Ie' of the prayer to the petition although the caption to the petition refer to

certiorari as well. Seven petitioners are all children of one W.H.G.Pantis, other

I l I

tIiIfIfI I! !I

l.

\,r!

3

than the 1st Petitioner being the widow of Pantis. The said Pantis was at one time

a permit holder and on or about 1987 became entitled by P2 & P3 to two grants

dated 05.06.1987. The grants P2 & P3 consists of highland and paddy land as

described in paragraph 12 of the petition.

The above named Pantis nominated the following as successor,

according to the petition.

(a) 6th Petitioner (daughter) as successor to a plot of land in extent of 2 rood

from grant P2 (high land) in 1995. Nomination marked as 'P4.

(b) On 25.3.1998 nominated W.H.G. Sunil Wijesooriya in an extent of 1 ~ acres

of high land.

(c) W.H.G. Sunil Wijesooriya and 3rd & 4th Petitioners as successor to paddy

land granted on P3. This is by letter P6 (not a prescribed form as 'P4').

Pantis the original grantee died on 24.5.2006. (P7) W.H.G. Sunil Wijesooriya

died on 14.2.2009. Died intestate leaving the widow (4th Respondent) and two

children. Thereafter 4th Respondent disputed the rights of Petitioners to land

grants P2 & P3.

Petitioners states having perused the extracts pertaining to the

above described lands in the Land Registry it revealed that a few entries have

Ii

t I

\!f ; I

4

been made in violation of the Land Development Ordinance. In relation to P2,

document P8a is annexed and in relation to P3, P8b is annexed.

The grievance of the Petitioners are more particularly described in

paragraph 21 of the petition. I would refer to same as described therein.

(i) The grants marked P12 and P13 have been executed irrespective of the permit

marked P1 issued to the said W.H.G Pantis and as a result the 3rd Petitioner has

been deprived of his legitimate rights to obtain a grant in respect of the land for

which the permit has been issued in his name under section 19(2) of the Land

Development Ordinance.

A true copy of the said permit issued in the name of the 4th Petitioner is annexed

marked as "P9" .

(ii) The 2nd Respondent and/or his predecessor have failed to follow the guidelines

and/or directions issued by the 3rd Respondent in relation to the nomination of

successors and thereby allowed to series of irregularities and/or malpractices.

True copies of the circulars bearing Nos. 2007/3 and 2008/2 are marked as "p10"

and "p11" .

(iii) The 1st to 3rd Respondents have allowed to effect several irregular transactions in

the absence of a valid cancellation of the nomination of successors.

(iv) The subject file relating to the said two lands consist of several highly suspiciou~ and

irregular documents of which the authenticity is highly questionable

Copies of the three documents obtained from the said file said to have been signed

by W.H.G Pantis are respectively annexed hereto marked as P12", "P13" and "p14" .

I!fII

!

/ 1

I i I I I I

1 1 I I

.l

5

(v) The said subject file consist of a document set to have been signed by the 1st

Petitioner which in fact has not been signed by her and in any event the 1st

Petitioner is not authorized under section 48 of the Land Development Ordinance to

execute such a document and the 1st to 3rd Respondents have acted upon the same.

(vi) A copy of the letter said to have been signed by the 1st Petitioner is annexed here to

marked as "PIS" .

(vii) A transfer deed has been executed in relation to the land referred in the Grant

marked P2 illegally and unlawfully without obtaining the prior approval from the 1st

to 3rd Respondent

The said deed of Transfer is annexed hereto marked as "PIG" .

By document P17 Petitioners have complained to the 1

st & 3

rd

Respondents. The 3rd Respondent called for a report by P18 from the 2

nd

Respondent. The Petitioners blame 1st

-3rd Respondents and more particularly

the 2nd Respondent as in paragraphs 25 - 28 of the petition.

The Respondent's rely on documents marked 2Rl to 2R4 produced

along with the affidavit of the 2

nd Respondent. It is stated therein that the original

grantee 'Pantis' by 2Rl had nominated Sunil Wijesooriya and that was his wish. As

such steps were taken accordingly. It seems to be the position of the above

Respondents that the original grantee Pantis has made a due nomination under

1!tt

I,tI(! II

I ! I

6

the law. Documents 2R2 & 2R3 are also produced by these Respondents to prove

the alienation of two blocks of land on 27.11.2000 & 4.1.2007 in accordance with

the wishes of the original grantee Pantis. Prior to the death of Pantis nomination

made for highland as in 2R1. The said Sunil Wijesooriya granted paddy land on

27.11.2007. Based on 2R4 (letter by wife of Pantis) dated 21.12.2006. As such

Divisional Secretary granted permission for the issue of paddy land in favour of

Sunil Wijesooriya. By P9 the 4th Petitioner was granted a plot of land. It is the

position of the official Respondents that alienations were done according to law.

The other contesting Respondent is the 4th Respondent. It is

emphasized that the act of nomination is not a disposition. Section 55 of the Land

Development Ordinance reads thus:

The act or transaction whereby a successor or a life-holder is lawfully nominated under

the provisions of this Chapter shall not be or be construed as a disposition of the land

for which such successor or life-holder is so nominated."

What is stated by the 4th Respondent is that W.H.G. Pantis by deed of

transfer NO.4 of 27.11.2000 (P16) has transferred the entirety of his rights to the

high land in favour of son W.H.G. Sunil Wijesooriya, having obtained necessary

authority from the officials. As regards the paddy land I note the following from

the written submissions filed on behalf of the 4th Respondent.

7

1. The extracts obtained from the Land Registry pertaining to the paddy land is

annexed to the petition marked P8 (b).

2. The said W.H.G. Pantis by document marked P13 to the petition (which was also

produced marked as 2R1 annexed to the Statement of Objections of the 1st to 3rd

Respondents) nominated his son, W.H.G. Sunil Wijesuriya as a successor to the

entirety of the paddy land referred to above.

3. The document in the relevant format as prescribed by the Land Development

Ordinance and which was signed by the W.H.G. Pantis, the Divisional Secretary and

which was registered in the Land Registry appointing W.H.G. Sunil Wijesuriya as a

successor to the paddy land as aforesaid is annexed to the petition marked P14.

4. Thereafter, subsequent to the death of W.H.G. Pantis (original grant holder), the

Divisional Secretary has granted permission for the issue of the paddy land in favour

of Sunil Wijesuriya. (vide paragraph 15(d) of the affidavit of the 2nd Respo~dent

dated 11th February 2011 and paragraph 14 (d) ofthe Statement of Objections ofthe

1 st to 3rd Respondent)

5. The decision to issue the paddy land in favour of Sunil Wijesuriya has been arrived at

consequent to the death of W.H.G. Pantis and the written instructions received from

the wife of the W.H.G. Pantis, Julinona Wijesekera (vide paragraph 15 (d) of the

affidavit ofthe 2nd Respondent dated 11th February 2011 and paragraph 14 (d) ofthe

Statement of Objections of the 1st to 3rd Respondent).

6. The letter containing the written instructions of the wife of the W.H.G. Pantis,

Julinona Wijesekera was annexed to the petition marked P15 and the said letter was

also produced annexed to the Statement of Objections of the 1st to 3rd Respondents

marked as 2R4.

7. The Petitioners, in paragraph 21 (v) of the petition states that the subject file

pertaining to the said land consists of a document said to have been signed by the

1st Petitioner but which was not signed by the 1st Petitioners.

II

J

\I

8

This court has considered the facts presented by all parties. In any event

there is no basis to contest the original grants issued in favour of the father of the

2nd

- i

h Petitioners Pantis. Material furnished by the Petitioners does not disclose

in a systematic way the necessary public duty and the statutory duty required for

the purpose of issuing a Writ of Mandamus. Although Petitioner's attempt to

make allegations against the official Respondents it appears to this court that it is

merely allegations made without much substance. The question of alleging

forgery of documents, illegality of fabricating documents are all facts denied by

the Respondents. In the way facts are disputed would not assist this court to

arrive at a decision whether to grant the relief prayed for or not. However the

allegations are not substantiated and this being a review procedure this court

cannot step into an area to decide allegation of forgery or fabrication of

documents. These are matters to be decided elsewhere and not in this application

seeking a prerogative Writ of Mandamus. On the other hand the official

Respondent whilst rejecting the position of the Petitioners aver that steps were

taken to provide the said Sunil Wijesooriya (son of Pantis) land according to the

wishes of the original grant holder W.H.G. Pantis. We have also examined

documents 2Rl to 2R4.

, I! II

f i I 1t t I

I

tI;

~

r IIII!I

9

A Mandamus will not be granted to correct an erroneous decision as

to fact. 2 CLW 14: 10 Times 65; 12 Law Rec 176. It is not a Writ of Right and not

issued as a matter of course 1 CLW 306. A party applying for a Mandamus must

make out a legal right and a legal obligation 1 NLR at 35. Error in the exercise of

power notwithstanding, provided there has already been a valid exercise of the

power in question, mandamus does not lie. De Soysa Vs. Dyson {1945} 46 NLR 351

where a discretion is available and has been exercised, even where it may have

been exercised erroneously, Mandamus is not available: per T.S. Fernando J. A. CJ

De Silva Vs. Senanayake {1967} 70 NLR 320, 324.

In all the above facts and circumstances, we are not inclined to grant

the relief sought. As such we dismiss this application without costs.

Application dismissed.

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

f II! I

I ; f I t

1! l t i i II1 t I I

~ f f ! I

I

f i I 1 f 1! i ,