==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A. No. 771/1998 (F) D.C. Kegalle No. 22869/P

P. Dingirihami Walawita Hettimulla. And Others

Appellants -Vs- S.A. Sirisena Walawita Hettimulla. And Others

Respondents

C.A. No. 771/1998(F) D.C. Kegalle No. 22869/P

Before K.T. CHITRASIRI, J.

l Counsel Rohan Sahabandu P.C. with Hasitha

J Amarasinghe I

for the 6th and 9th to 13th Defendant-Appellants

j Parakrama Agalawatta I i

III for the Plaintiff-Respondent and l

for the 1 st to 5th Defendant-Respondents }

Argued &

ft

Decided on 24.03.201

K.T.Chitrasiri. J

This is an appeal seeking inter alia to set aside the judgment dated

26.08.1998 of the learned District Judge of Kegalle. In that judgment,

learned District Judge has answered 10 points of contest, out of which

the 6th to 9th points of contest had been raised on behalf of the

appellants. However, two sets of points of contest had been raised on

behalf of the appellants on two different dates and those are found at

1

page 87 and at page 89 in the appeal brief. Leaned District Judge has

answered 10 points of contest without specifying whether those relate to

the points of contest raised on 13.09.1988 or on 22.10.190.

Ten points of contest have been raised by the parties when the

trial was taken up on 13.09.1988 and 3 new points of contest also have

been raised on behalf of 6th , 7th ,8th to 15th defendants when the case

was taken up for trial on 22.10.1990. Those 3 points of contest raised

subsequently were given the numbers 7, 8, 9. Therefore, it is clearly

seen that there are two sets of issues which had been allocated the same

numbers 7, 8, 9.

Looking at the record, nothing is found, clarifying this confusion as

to the acceptance of the points of contest upon which the trial in this

case had been proceeded with. Learned District Judge who delivered the

judgment also has not addressed her mind as to the acceptance of the

correct points of contest. Furthermore, when the case was taken up on

the 22.10.1998, learned District Judge before whom it came up on that

date, has recorded 3 more points of contest without looking at the

proceedings recorded on the previous trial date and has proceeded to

record 3 more points of contest which are almost similar to those that

had already been recorded by then.

In view of the above, it is not clear as to the points of contest that

had been answered by the learned District Judge. Also, it is difficult to

2

I

t IIt

I I t f I ! i I l( I , ! I i I i !

understand the particular issues upon which the trial has proceeded

with. Considering the above circumstances, both Counsel submit that

this matter be referred back to the District Court of Kegalle to re-

commence the trial after accepting the correct points of con test.

In the circumstances, it is clear that the trial in this case had been

conducted without accepting the correct points of contest as required by

Section 146 in the Civil Procedure Code.

Aforesaid Section 146( 1) reads thus:

"On the day fzxed for the hearing of action, or on any other

day to which the hearing is adjourned, if the parties are agreed as to the question of fact or of law to be decided between them, they may state the same in the form of an issue, and the court shall proceed to determine the same".

Hence, it is mandatory on the part of the trial judge to determine

and accept the questions raised by the parties before recording the

evidence. Such a determination of issues must be seen at least by

implication, if not recorded in clear words. The trial Judge in this

instance has failed to accept the points of contest upon which this case

has proceeded with. It is impossible to decide the exact points of contest

raised in this case, by implication either, since two sets of points of

contest have been raised on two different dates by the appellants. Hence,

one cannot reconcile the answers given in the impugned judgment with

the points of contest raised by the appellant on those two occasions.

3

\

the exact issues that he has answered. Und~r those circumstances, it is

I t ! r

Therefore, it is clear that the learned District Judge has misdirected as to

wrong to allow the judgment to stand. Accordingly, the judgment dated

26th August 1998 of the learned District judge of Kegalle is set aside.

At this stage, Mr. Rohan Sahabandu P. C. appearing for the

6th , 7th, 9th to 15th defendants on 22nd October 1990 be accepted as I 1

Appellants submits that the points of contest raised on behalf of the

the points of contest of the said defendants and to disregard the points

of contest framed on behalf of the 6th defendant on the 13.09.1998.

However both Counsel submit that if the parties so desire, they may raise

additional points of contest. Both Counsel also submit that the parties

are agreeable to adopt the proceeding that had already been recorded

before the sitting Judge in the District Court of Kegalle.

Accordingly, the learned District Judge of Kegalle IS directed to

hold a trial de novo having taken into consideration of the above

submissions of the two Counsel particularly as to the adoption of the

proceedings and the raising of new points of contest. Moreover, if the

parties so wish, they are entitled to make an application to record further

evidence as well.

4

1 !

Learned District Judge of Kegalle is directed to have a fresh trial

subject to the conditions referred to above. The learned District Judge is

also directed to conclude this case expeditiously.

For the reasons mentioned above, Re-Trial is ordered. No costs.

Appeal allowed.

jmds JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

5