==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

842/99{F)

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI lANKA

C.A.Case No:-842/99(F}

D.C.Kegalle case no:-3847/l

Before:- H.NJ.Perera, J.

T. Piyasena,

Wagolla Watte, Koorempola,

Rambukkana.

Defendant-Appellant

Vs

1. Dolage Ralage Dingiri

Mahattaya

2. Ratnayake Mudiyanselage

Podimenike both of

Koorempola, Rabukkana.

Plaintiff-Respondents

Counsel:-Dr.Sunil Cooray with Sudharshini Coo ray for the

Defendant-Appellant

D.M.G.Dissanayaka with B.C.Balasuriya for the Plaintiff-

Respondents

Argued On:- 06.08.2013

I , I j I I Written Submissions:- 09.09.2013/10.09.2013

Decided On:-06.05.2014

H.N.J.Perera, J.

The Plaintiff-Respondents filed this action for a declaration of title to

the land described in 1

st schedule to the plaint, and for the ejectment

of the Defendant-Appellant and possession of the said land

described in the 2

nd schedule to the plaint and for damages.

According to Plaintiffs they have purchased }{ of the land in question

from one Daniel Ranasinghe Appuhamy by deed No 1430 dated

13.02.1976 marked P1 and the balance % of the land was acquired by

them by prescriptive title.

The Plaintiff-Respondents instituted action on the basis that, the

Defendant-Appellant was granted a leave and license to reside in the

house situated on the subject matter as the Defendant-Appellant

was employed as a tractor driver under one Tillekeratne who was the

son of the 1st Plaintiff-Respondent and the brother of the 2nd

Plaintiff-Respondent.

According to the plaintiffs at the end of the year 1984, Tillekeratne

sold his tractor and the Defendant-Appellant's service under him

ended but however, he refused to leave the premises and hand over

vacant possession thereof to the Plaintiff-Respondents although

several requests were made thereto. Thereafter the Plaintiff-

Respondents have caused to serve the quit notice on 30.12.1986

thereby terminating the license granted to him, which was never

replied.

If I !III r f i

I I I

The Defendant-Appellant filed answer and prayed that, he be

declared lawful owner of lot 1 of plan No 752A on prescriptive rights

of the Defendant and also prayed that the Plaintiff's action be

dismissed.

The Defendant-Appellant's position was that, he commenced the

possession of the subject matter in the year 1972 under one

Siriwardena Peiris who held title thereto. Thereupon after the

demise of the said Siriwardena in 1974, he continued to posses the

land he claimed and has acquired title thereto.

After trial the learned District Judge delivered judgment dated In

favour of the Plaintiff-Respondents. Aggrieved by the said judgment

of the learned District Judge of Kegalle the Defendant-Appellant had

preferred this appeal to this Court.

The Plaintiff-Respondents instituted this action to eject the

Defendant-Appellant from the premises in question. It was the

contention of the Counsel for the Defendant-Appellant that this is an

action for rei vindication and the pleadings in the plaint does not

amount this action to be construed as a leave and license action.

It was the position of the Plaintiff-Respondents that the Defendant-

Appellant has come to occupy the said premises with their

permission. It is to be observed that in paragraphs one to six in the

plaint the Plaintiff's had very clearly stated so. Therefore it is very

clear that the Plaintiff's have filed this action not on the basis that

they are the owners of this land. The Plaintiff's too have sought a

declaration that they be declared owners of the land described in the

schedule to the plaint.The learned District Judge in this case has

come to a clear conclusion based on evidence that the defendant-

Appellant was residing in lot 1 of the plan marked X as a licensee of

the Plaintiffs in this case.

I!II

f,

f

f ! !

/ l

1 1 I

J l In Ruberu and Another Vs Wijessooriya (1998) 1 Sri L.R 58 it was held

that:-

IIWhether it is a licensee or lessee, the question of title is foreign to a

suit in ejetment against either. The licensee obtaining possession is

deemed to obtain it upon the terms that he will not dispute the title

of the Plaintiff without whose permission he would not have got it.

The effect of Section 116 Evidence Ordinance is that if a licensee

desires to challenge the title under which he is in occupation he must

first quit the land. The fact that the licensee obtained possession

from the plaintiff is perforce an admission of the fact that the title

resides in the plaintiff."

Further it was held that:-

lilt is an inflexible rule of law that no lessee or licensee will never be

permitted either to question the title of the person who gave him

the lease or the license or the permission to occupy or possess the

land or set up want of title in that person."

In Pathirana Vs Jayasundera 58 N.JL.R 169, the Supreme Court held

that the lessee who has entered into occupation must first restore

the property to his landlord in fulfilment of his contractual obligation

which the Defendant in this case has failed to fulfil.

In the same case Gratien, J stated the law as follows:-

IIln a 'rei vindicatio' action proper, the owner of immovable property

is entitled, on proof of his title, to a decree in his favour for the

recovery of the property and for ejectment of the personin wrongful

occupation. liThe Plaintiffs ownership of the thing is very essence of

the action" Maasdorp's Institutes (i

h Ed.) Vol.2, 96.

The scope of an action by a lessor against an overholding lessee for

restoration and ejectment, however, is different. Privity of contract

III,

f i t I

I

J I i (whether it be by original agreement or by attornment) is the

foundation of the right to relief and issues as to title are irrelevant to

the proceedings. Indeed a lessee who has entered into occupation is

precluded from disputing his lessor's title until he has first restored

the property in fulfilment of his contractual obligation."The lessee

(conductor) cannot plead the exception dominie, although he may be

able easily to prove his own ownership, but he must by all means

first surrender his possession and then litigate as to proprietorship.

Voet 19.2.32.

Both these forms of action referred to are no doubt designed to

secure the same primary relief, namely, the recovery of property. But

the cause of action in one case is the violation of the Plaintiffs rights

of ownership, in the other it is the breach of the lessee's contractual

obligation.

A decree for a declaration of title may, of course, be obtained by way

of additional relief either in a re vindication action proper (which is in

truth an action in rem) or in a lessor's action against his overholding

tenant (which is an action in personam). But in the former case, the

declaration is based on proof of ownership; in the latter, on proof of

the contractual relationship which forbids a denial that the lessor is

the true owner."

Analysed in the light of these simple rules, the Plaintiff's in their

plaint have asked for relief against the Defendant on the ground of

an alleged contractual relationship. It is therefore quite apparent

that the action as constituted is not a rei vindication action proper in

which any issue as to rights of ownership could properly arise for

adjudication.

In Majubudeen and others Vs Simon Perera [2003] 2 Sri L.R 341 it

was held that:-

I

I I 3

"Privity of contract is the foundation of the right to relief in an action

by a lessor against an overholding lessee for restoration and

ejectment and issues as to title are irrelevant. A lessee who has

entered into occupation is precluded from disputing his lessor's title

until he has first restored the property in fulfilment of his contractual

obligations./I

In the case of Alvar Pillar Vs Karuppan 4 N.L.R 321, it was held that:-

"I am of the view that the defendant is not entitled to dispute the

title of the plaintiff. In this case the defendant was permitted to

occupy the premises with the permission of the plaintiff. In my

opinion the defendant has no defense to this action. He must give up

possession to the plaintiff./I

In Visvalingham Vs Gajaweera 56 N.L.R 111 it was held that:-

"Even assuming that the defendant had become owner of the entire

premises, it was not open to him to refuse to surrender possession

to his landlord. He must first give up possession and then it would be

open to him to litigate about the ownership./I

The learned District Judge has arrived at certain factual matters or

has decided on primary facts i.e defendant entered the land in

question as a licensee, and that at that point of time the Plaintiff was

the owner. As such the plaintiff's title cannot be disputed by the

defendant. At the trial the 2nd Plaintiff produced Pl to P5, to which

no objection was taken at the close of the Plaintiffs case. The cursus curiae of the Original Civil Court followed for more than three

decades in this country is that the failure to object to documents,

when read at the closure of the case of a particular party would

render them as evidence for all purposes of the law. III , f

J

\ j ,

I

P2 is the quit notice sent by the plaintiff's to the defendant and P3

has been marked and produced to prove that the said letter has

been delivered to the defendant by registered post. The defendant

has failed to send a reply to the said letter marked P2. The silence of

the defendant amounts to an admission of the truth of the

allegations contained in the quit notice.

In Saravanamuttu Vs De Mel, 49 N.L.R 529, Dias, J held that in

business matters, if a person states in a letter to another that a

certain state of facts exits, the person to whom the letter is written

must reply if he does not agree with or means to dispute assertions.

Otherwise, the silence of the latter amounts to an admission of the

truth of the allegation contained in that letter.

I have considered the entire judgment, and see no reason to

interfere and the trial Judge has given cogent reasons. I do not wish

to interfere with the primary facts of this case. Trial Judge has arrived

at a correct conclusion. Appellate Court should not without cogent

reasons interfere with primary facts.1993 {1} S.L.R 332 & 282.

For the above reasons I see no reason to disturb the judgment of the

learned District Judge. Accordingly the appeal of the Defendant-

Appellant is dismissed with costs.

Appeal dismissed

!

f