==== BLOCKS ==== 

.. IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

C.A. Appeal No. 571/99 (F) D.C. Avissawela No. 187~/P

Before: A.W.A. SALAM, J.

Kithsiri Balasuriya Siril and Rajapakse Kanthi Sunethra Rajapakse,

. Medagoda, Ami thirigala 3rd and 4th defendant-appellants

Vs

Kalthotage Jayaratna,

Medagoda, Amithirigala Plaintiff-respondent

Kanatta Badahalage Baby Nona Kanatta Badahalage Emali Nona

Medagoda, Ami thirigala Defendant-respondents

Counsel: Padma Bandara for the 3rd and 4th defendant-

appellant and Sanjeewa Jayawardena with Asoka Niwunhalla

for the plaintiff- respondent.

Argued on: 22.07.2010, 15.09.2010

Written submissions tendered on: 02.09.2010

Decided on: 09.02 2011

A. W .Abdus Salam, J. T

he plaintiff instituted this action seeking a partition of the

land described in the schedule to the plaint which is depicted

as lot 1 in in the earlier partition plan No 59/1973 flled of record in

partition action No 12748/P.

Page I 2

As pleaded in the plaint, by virtue of the final decree entered in case

No 12748/ P the original owner of lot 1 was one Elisa. On a short

chain of title set out in the plaint the undivided rights in the corpus

devolved equally on the plaintiff and the 1 st defendant. Further the

plaintiff averred in the plaint that the 1st and the second defendant-

appellants and the third defendant-respondent started to forcibly

crossover his land from 1991 without being entitled to any right of

access over the corpus.

The second and third defendant-appellants and 3rd defendant-

respondent maintained that they were entitled to use a common

public path across the corpus to gain access to a waterfall and a

cemetery. (Vide points of contest 6,7 and 8).

Significantly, the pivotal question that came up for determination in

the partition action was the existence of this right away across the

land. The previous plan flled of record in the first partition action

was annexed to the plaint by the plaintiff in proof of his claim as to

the nonexistence of the alleged right away.

The said plan No 59/1973 depicts lot 1 to 18 and lot 1 which is the

subject matter of this partition action is shown at the extreme

South West. This plan has not been disputed by the parties

including the appellants. According to the entries made in the said

plan the preliminary survey in relation to the earlier partition action

has been done on the 13th and 14th of August 1969 and the

boundaries reopened on 22nd September 1973. The [mal partition

has been done on 24th, 28th and 30th November 1973. It is crystal

C.A. Appeal No. 571/99 (F) D.C. Avissawela No. 1873f1P 09.02.2011

clear from the said plan that no roads had existed over or across the

land, namely lot 1 in that year 1973. Quite significantly, a 10 feet

wide road is located on the Northern boundary of the corpus and it

extends further along the South Western boundary of lot 3 and 5

shown in the said plan. Above all a public road runs along the

eastern. boundary of the corpus and the 10 feet wide Road referred

to above as being running on the northern boundary of the corpus

abuts this public road. This clearly shows that in the year 1973

there had been no such road way as claimed by the appellants

existed across the corpus.

Page I 3

It is interesting to note that the second defendant in his statement

of claim denied the allegation contained in the plaint as to the non-

existence of a right of way across the land and pleaded the existence

of a 10 chain long 9 feet wide road across the corpus known as

"Nakkawala Badahalage Hena Para" registered in Ruwanwella

Prashiya Sabawa and that several families including the second

defendant have acquired a prescriptive right for the use of the said

roadway to gain access to an said waterfall and public cemetery.

First and foremost the claim made by the appellants to the alleged

roadway across the land is hopelessly vague. Further the appellants

also relied on the preliminary plan and the previous partition plan

in substantiation of their claim. They claimed that the road in

question was in existence for a period of over 50 years. If the road in

question had existed over a period of five decades, it is surprising as

to why it had not been shown in the previous partition plan.

In the preliminary plan No 813-P, Mr Gunasena, the Licensed

Surveyor and Commissioner of court has shown roadway which is

marked as lot 2 to the North of the land as opposed to the claim

made by the appellants to a roadway towards the South West

boundary. As a matter of fact the Commissioner gave evidence on

C.A. Appeal No. 571/99 (F) D.C. Avissawela No. 1873VP 09.02.2011

this matter and he had not been seriously cross examined by the

appellants on this matter.

The failure on the part of the appellants to cross examine the

Commissioner on salient points regarding the existence of the

roadway across the land has been treated by the Learned District

Judge as unfavourable to the appellants.

The Learned District Judge has also taken into consideration that

the path shown in the preliminary plan is said to be two feet in

width as opposed to the claim preferred by the appellants for a of a

10 feet wide road. Further the appellants have not called any

Surveyors to testify on their behalf nor have seriously disputed the

testimony of the Commissioner. The evidence relating to the

superimposition of the earlier partition plan on the preliminary plan

has been of immense assistance to the Learned District Judge to

resolve the dispute. The Surveyor has clearly stated that the

footpath shown by him to be 2 feet in width does not look like an

old or clear path and therefore the Learned District Judge came to

the conclusion that the claim made by the appellants is false. The

Learned District Judge has come to this conclusion after

considering the evidence of the witnesses who testified before her.

Her observations with regard to the nature of the claim made by the

appellants had attracted strong criticism.

A perusal of the judgment clearly shows that the Learned District

Judge has taken immense pain to analyze the evidence. Her

observation as to the claim made by both parties had been very fair

are reasonable in the light of the evidence adduced at the trial.

For reasons stated above, it is my considered opinion that the

appellant have not shown any acceptable grounds warranting the

interference of this Court with the fIndings and the judgment of the

C.A. Appeal No. 571/99 (F) D.C. Avissawela No. 1873VP 09.02.2011

Page I 4

I I l I I ,

Learned District Judge. Hence, this appeal is dismissed subject to

costs.

J~~' Judge of the Court of Appeal

Page I 5

C.A. Appeal No. 571/99 (F) D.C. Avissawela No. 1873VP 09.02.2011