==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA 161/2009 Writ

Arushan Raninkumar

Petitioner

Vs.

Vengadasalm Nadarajah and 14 others ..

Respondents

Before : A.W.A. Salam, J. & Sunil Rajapaksha, J.

Counsel Arjuna Obeysekara DSG for the 14th

, Respondent and the Petitioner appeared in person.

Decided on: 31.10.2013.

The petitioner has invoked the writ jurisdiction of this

court seeking inter alia writs of mandamus against

certain respondents cited in the caption to the petition.

The petitioner has amended the petition at different

stages of these proceedings. Amongst other reliefs, the

1

t III,

I l

~

petitioner seeks a writ of mandamus against the 14th

respondent whom he has later added as a party. The writ

of mandamus sought against the 14th respondent reads

as follows ...

"Grant in the nature of mandamus to make an order to the 14th respondent to pay the petitioner 100/0 reward after the collection similar to as mentioned in paragraph 32 of this petition".

It is well established law that the issuance of a writ of

mandamus IS necessarily concomitant upon the

establishment of a specific legal right which in my

, opinion, the petitioner has failed to satisfy us. In such a

circumstance, it would be undoubtedly a futile exercise

to allow the petitioner to maintain the present

application.

On a reading of the entire petition, it is quite obvious

that the petitioner does not in any manner has disclosed

the legal basis on which he claims that he is entitled to

the remedy. In that respect, the petitioner has omitted to

2

•

show how the Ministry of Finance is under a duty to pay

him the reward which he claims as being entitled to.

As has been submitted by the respondents, the petitioner

.in any event is seeking the payment only after the money

is collected by the authorities from the 1 st, 2nd and 3rd

respondents. In the circumstances, in our opinion the

petitioner is not entitled to take out notices on the

respondents, as he has not disclosed a case which is

prima-facie sustainable in law. In the circumstances, we

have no alternative but to refuse the application issue

notice on the petition.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Sunil Raj apaksha, J.

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

NR/-

3

\ I! l ! ! IIII ! t ,

f I

i,