==== BLOCKS ==== 

I i

i !

J I

1 I I j 1

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 1117 / 2000 F

D.C. Galle No. 12495/ P

Weerasinghe Arachchige Premadasa, No 13A, Kanda Liyadda Paluwa, Ganemulla.

Vs.

1. Hetti Arachchige Sepali Wickremaratne, Dorape, Angulugaha.

Plaintiff

2. Weerasinghe Arachchige Ariyadasa, 3. Piyadasa Wijesiri Gunawardena, 4. Weerasinghe Arachchige Lili, All of Dhanduwana, Dorape, Angulugaha.

Defendant

AND NOW BETWEEN

Weerasinghe Arachchige Premadasa, No 13A, Kanda Liyadda Paluwa, Ganemulla.

Plaintiff Appellant Vs

1. Hetti Arachchige Sepali Wickremaratne, Dorape, Angulugaha. 2. Weerasinghe Arachchige Ariyadasa, 3. Piyadasa Wijesiri Gunawardena, 4. Weerasinghe Arachchige Lili, All of Dhanduwana, Dorape, Angulugaha.

Defendant Respondent

1 I

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNEJ.

Appellant was absent and unrepresented

Nilanga Udalagama for the 2nd Defendant

Respondent

01.11.2013

26.11.2013

The Plaintiff Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant)

instituted the said action against the Defendant Respondents (hereinafter referred

to as the Respondents) in the District Court of Galle seeking to partition the land

described in the schedule to the plaint. The 2nd 3rd and 4th Defendant Respondents

(hereinafter referred to as the Respondents) filed their statements of claim praying

for a dismissal of the Appellant's action. After trial the learned District Judge has

dismissed the action. Being aggrieved by the said judgment dated 26.07.2000 the

Appellant has preferred the instant appeal to this Court.

According to the Appellant Weerasinghe Arachchige Charlis was in

possession of the land to be partitioned and after the demise of said Charlis his title

had devolved on his two children Weerasinghe Arachchige Darmasena and

Weerasinghe Arachchige Leelawathie and said Darmasena and Leelawathie has

transferred their rights to the Appellant by a deed of transfer bearing No 6678

II

f t f t II

1I II' !

[ iIIr II II

I

t

i1

I !

1 I I

3

dated 11.10.1990. Thereafter the Appellant by deed bearing No 8753 dated

04.01.1994, has transferred undivided Y:! shares to the 1 st Defendant Respondent.

The Respondents' position was that their father Weerasinghe

Arachchige Jemis and mother W.A. Caralain were in possession of the said land

and after the death of their father and mother they were in possession of the said

land.

At the trial the Appellant has closed the case leading his evidence. He

has not led evidence of his predecessors in title to prove a prescriptive title. I have

carefully examined the evidence of the Appellant. Since the Appellant has relied

upon a prescriptive title of his predecessors in title, burden was on the Appellant to

prove it. But the Appellant has failed to discharge his burden on a balance of

probability.

In the aforesaid circumstances I find no reason to interfere with the

judgement of the learned Additional District Judge dated 26.07.2000. Therefore I

dismiss the instant appeal of the Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

---I

I

I!