==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Udugama Withanage Jagath Presanna

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

C.A. 06/2013

(H.C. Gampaha 114/2006)

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

RESPONDENT

D. Ethugala for the Accused-Appellant

Shanaka Wijesinghe D.S.G. for the Respondent

26.06.2014

15.07.2014

1

2

GOONERATNE J.

The Accused-Appellant was indicted in the High Court of Gampaha

for committing rape of a girl named A. Eresha Krishni Jayawardena who was

below 16 years of age, an offence punishable under Section 364(2)(@) of the

Penal Code as amended by Act No. 22 of 1996 during the period 01.01.2002 to

31.07.2002.

The prosecutrix was raped when she was only 13 years old. When

she gave evidence in the High Court she was married with a child, 6 months

old, and the prosecutrix was 20 years old. The evidence and the prosecution

version reveal that the prosecutrix had been raped on two occasions by the

Accused who was her brother-in-law. (elder sister's husband). The 1st act was

in January 2002, when there were no occupants in the house other than the

Accused. The prosecutrix was staying with her sister and on the day in

question sister had left the house to take her child to school. In fact the victim

had been schooling from the house of her sister. Victim's parents were staying

elsewhere on that day. She was not feeling well and was asleep when she was

3

woken up by the Accused. The Accused had initially made certain advances

towards the prosecutrix, under protest. By a gradual process the prosecutrix

had been dragged from another place in the house, when she left the room

due to advances by the Accused. She was dragged, threatened at knife point,

and clothes removed by force by the Accused. Thereafter he committed rape

on the prosecutrix, The evidence reveal that the victim had not complained to

anyone, due to fear. The act of rape had been described by the prosecutrix as

far as she could remember and in her own way of explaining. She was also in

pain.

The second act was somewhere in July. However the Accused having

threatened the victim, had also raped and assaulted her prior to forcing her to

indulge the sexual activity. The evidence reveal that the Accused had

threatened the victim with death at various stages and performed the act of

rape. In this instance the sister of the prosecutrix had at some point of time,

arrived at the house and the Accused was caught in the act. Having notice

what was taking place the sister attacked the Accused with a broom stick.

It is only after the 2

nd incident that the proper complaints were made

to the police. The porsecutrix was examined and produced before the J.M.O,

who had also called for a Government Analyst Report. I would refer to the

4

Judicial Medical Officer's report produced as P2 which opinion would be

relevant in the context of this case. It states.

Opinion

• This person shows conclusive evidence of vaginal penetration (previously sustained)

• Out of the two healed hymenal tears, the one at 6-7 O'clock position may be older

than the one at 5 O'clock position.

• The initial vaginal penetration could have been occurred during the time period

stated in the history (i.e about seven months back) and vaginal penetration had

occurred thereafter as well.

Penetrations could have taken place thereafter without causing injuries to the vulvo-

vaginal structures. Therefore, absence of fresh or recent injuries in the vulvo-vaginal

structure does not exclude the possibility of recent sexual intercourse and is

compatible with the given history.

• The rag, found at 5-7 O'clock position of the hymen is a normal appearance of the

hymen.

I find that all necessary available evidence had been placed before

the High Court, to enable the trial Judge to return a verdict of guilt. The

Accused had initially absconded but later on having issued warrants, Accused

had been arrested. At the beginning trial held in absentia since the Accused

had been absconding. However court had later on permitted the Accused to

take part in the trial and inter partes trial held. At the hearing of this appeal

the learned counsel for the Accused-Appellant referred to the dock statement

5

of the Accused and attempted to implicate another young person with whom

the prosecutrix had some association. Learned Counsel also referred to the

medical evidence to demonstrate that penetration had not taken place. This

court is not impressed with the submissions of the learned counsel for the

defence. Learned Deputy Solicitor General supported the judgment of the trial

Judge.

This court having considered all the facts and circumstances see no

legal basis to interfere with the findings of the learned High Court Judge. As

such we affirm the conviction and sentence of the High Court and we proceed

to dismiss this appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL