==== BLOCKS ==== 

, I I

1 I. 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 57/2012 (Writ)

1. M. D. Sanjaya Asanka Somasiri

M. D. Dhanushka Samanpriya

H. D. Chandrawathie.

All of No. 21/106/6,

Dadagamuwa, Weyangoda.

PETITIONERS

Vs.

1. Commissioner General of Agrarian

Development

Department of Agrarian Development

P. O. Box 537, Colombo 7.

2. Assistant Commissioner of Agrarian

Development,

Agrarian Development Office,

Sri Bodhiya Road, Gampaha.

And 7 others.

RESPONDENTS

1

1 I i I

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERATNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

Dr. Sunil Cooray for the Petitioners

N. D. B. Unamboowe D.S.G for the 1st & 2nd Respondents

Wijedasa Rajapakse P.C, with Dasun Nagasena and Rasitha

For the 3rd to i h Respondents

21.01.2014

31.03.2014

2

The Petitioners in this Writ Application have sought a Writ of

Certiorari to quash the orders referred to in sub para (c ) of the prayer to the

petition marked P10 & Pll. This application relates to obstructions of a roadway

across the land described in schedules 1 & 2 of the petition, which road leads to a

paddy field and to a Ikamatha' by erecting barbed wire fence. A complaint was

made by 3rd to ih Respondents against the Petitioners. Complaint is produced

marked P4. The body of the petition refer, as to how the Petitioners derived title

l

3

to the lands described in the petition. (paras I, 2, 6, 7 & 8) . There is also

reference to certain deeds marked PI, P2, P5 and plan P3, by the Petitioners.

One of the points raised in the petition and as submitted to this court

by learned counsel for the Petitioner was that deeds 2752 (PI) and 5282 (C) does

not show or describe any such roadway or (kamatha' in its schedules. Both deeds

attested on or about 1979 and 1960. Another point stressed is that the (kamatha'

has not been registered in terms of Act No. 46 of 2000 in the list of Agrarian

Lands. The 2

nd Respondnet held an inquiry under Section 90(1) of the Agrarian

Development Act No. 46 of 2000 on the dates mentioned in the petition. At the

conclusion of leading oral evidence it is pleaded that a sight inspection was held

by the 2nd Respondent. The inspection report is marked and produced P9. In para

22 of the petition several grounds are included on which the Petitioners relies to

issue a Writ of Certiorari.

However before I proceed to consider the position of the

Respondents the following sections of the above Statute is noted.

Section 90(1) of Act No. 46 of 2000 reads thus:

Where a complaint is made to the Commissioner General by any owner cultivator or

occupier of agricultural land that any person is interfering with or attempting to interfere with

the cultivation rights, threshing rights, rights of using a threshing floor, the right of removing

agricultural produce or the right to the use of an agricultural road of such owner cultivator or

1 J

4

occupier, the Commissioner-General after inquiry may if he is satisfied that such interference or

attempted interference will result in damage or loss of crop or livestock, issue an order on such

person cultivator or occupier requiring him to comply with such directions as may be specified

in such order necessary for the protection of such rights;

Provided that an order under this section shall not be made for the eviction of any

person from such agricultural land:

Provided further that an order issued under subsection (1) shall not prejudice the right

title or interest of such person, cultivator or occupier to such land, crop or livestock in respect

of which such order is made.

The position of the 1st & 2nd Respondents as gathered from the

material contained in the objections and submissions of learned Deputy Solicitor

General was that the 3rd to t h Respondents had given evidence at the inquiry and

according to the oral testimony there is evidence of the use of the roadway to the

'kamatha' in question. It is the position of these Respondents that by usage

farmers would be entitled to the roadway. There is no denial of the fact that the

village had no register. There is also reference to a contradiction of the Petitioners

witnesses (RS a). Site inspection was also held (R11) and both parties have signed

the report. There is also a sketch produced marked R12. This enables court to

visualize the disputed area. Parties were also requested to settle the issue but

there had been no consensus between them.

5

The position of learned President's Counsel for 3rd to ih Respondents

is that it is based on oral testimony before the inquiring officer (2nd Respondent)

and his clinets are entitled to the use of the roadway to the 'kamatha' in question,

owing to long years of user. These Respondents have raised an objection based

on laches in their objections.

The main object of the above section 90(1) of Act No. 46 of 2000 is to

prevent any interference with cultivation rights. It has nothing to do with title nor

will it entitle the authorities concerned to make an order for eviction. The idea

being to preserve agricultural usages as a right to use threshing floor, right to

remove agriculture produce, right to use agricultural road etc. to enable the

farmers to get the maximum benefit on such matters without any hindrance. An

agricultural usage of using or a right to threshing floor is a right enjoyed by

farmers over the years for a very long time in our country as traced in history.

The Petitioners rely on several grounds as pleaded in para 22 of the

petition. This court is of the view that the several grounds urged would not entitle

the Petitioners to seek a Writ of Certiorari in the manner pleaded therein. The 2

nd

Respondent would be entitled to arrive at a decision based on oral testimony,

since the governing statute merely contemplate not to disturb agricultural rights

maintained for a fairly long period of time. An absence of a roadway in the plans

6

produced or the deeds referred to cannot be considered in the circumstances and

in the context of the case since title to the property is not an issue. Primary aspect

is the usage which could be decided on oral and or documentary evidence, other

than by deeds or plans. As such there is no error on the face of the record. The 2nd

Respondent has made arrangements or given an opportunity for both parties to

present each others' case. A fair hearing had been granted, in order to achieve

the purpose of the statute. A site inspection was also done at the close of the

inquiry. I cannot act on unfounded baseless allegations and issue the writ prayed

for in these proceedings, writs being discretionary remedies of court.

Therefore I reject the application for a Writ of Certiorari and dismiss

this applications without costs.

Application dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL