==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A. No. 708/98(F) D.C. Balangoda Case No. 346/L

P. Malam Arachchi Main Road, Rakwana.

Appellant Vs. D.A. Marbram R.M. Somasiri No: 78, Deniyaya Road, Rakwana.

Respondent

C.A. No. 708/98(F)

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED& DECIDED ON

K. T. CHITRASIRI, J.

1

D.C. Balangoda Case No. 346/L

K. T. CHITRASIRI, J.

E. Ariyarathne with Indika Kuruppuarachchi for the Respondent-Appellant.

Vidura Gunerathne for the Plaintiff-Respondent.

04.06.2013.

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the two orders dated 23.4.1998

and 13.08.1998 of the learned District Judge of Balangoda. The aforesaid two

orders are found in the journal entries made by the learned Judge on those

respective dates. The order made on the 23.04.1998 is to refix the trial consequent

upon an application made by the Defendant subject to a payment of Rs.2000/= being

made to the plaintiff as the costs of that date. The said payment of costs is to be made

on or before the next date namely 13.08.1998. When it was taken up for trial

on 13.08.1998, it was brought to the notice of Court that the Defendant had not

paid the costs as ordered on the previous day and accordingly an order had

been made deciding the case in favour of the plaintiff.

2

At the commencement of the argument today, learned Counsel for

the Plaintiff-Respondent raising a preliminary objection submitted that the

Appellant cannot have and maintain this appeal as he has chosen to file a final

appeal instead of making an application to obtain leave from this Court, in terms of

Section 754(2) of the Civil Procedure Code since the impugned decisions do not

fall into the category of a 'judgment". Therefore the issue now before this Court

is to determine whether the two orders dated 23.4.1998 and 13.08.1998 amount

to a "judgment" or an "order".

Learned Counsel for the Appellant submitted that the learned District

Judge after taking up the case for trial on 13.08.1998, had stated thus:

"~~Sdil@t§@ tJJ!J~o l!.DfdtJ daM &JJOS".

On the basis of the manner in which the said sentence is worded he contended

that the said decision of the Trial Judge amounts it to be a 'judgment", as far as the

appellant is concerned. Accordingly, learned Counsel for the appellant submitted that

the impugned decision should be interpreted as a "judgment". He further submitted

that the decision in Rajendran Chettair vs. Narayanan Chettiar

[S.C.H.C.C.A.L.A.174/2008 dated 10.06.201 0] is not applicable in this instance as the

appeal has been filed on the basis of the manner in which the learned District Judge

has made his order on 13.08.1998. Several judicial pronouncements also had been

referred to in the written submissions filed on behalf of the appellant in support of his

contention. However, the learned Counsel, now unable to point out any decision

where this particular issue had been discussed from amongst those decisions referred

to in the written submissions.

3

The relief prayed for m the petition of appeal is to set aside two

orders made on the 23.04.1998 and 13.08.1998. Therefore on the face of the

petition of appeal these two decisions have been considered and accepted as

"orders" by the appellant himself. Moreover, upon a careful perusal of the journal

entry made on 13.08.1998'I am unable to find the word "dd~E>" in that entry y

though the learned Counsel for the appellant is of the view that it as a "judgment".

(dd~E>) Therefore, the learned Counsel for the Appellant seems to have come to

an erroneous conclusion as to the decision of the learned District Judge.

Be that as it may, section 754(5) of the Civil Procedure Code defines the word

'judgment" and it reads thus.:

"Judgment means any judgment or order having the effect of a

final judgment made by any civil court".

This section has been interpreted in numerous occasions. In the case of

Siriwardane Vs. Air Ceylon Ltd [1984 (1) SLR at 286], Sharvananda J (as he then

was) introduced the "order approach" in interpreting the word 'judgment". In

the case of Ranjith Vs Kusumawathie, [1998 (3) SLR 232] Deerarathne, J

introduced the application approach. In the case of Rajendran Chettair vs.

Narayanan Chettiar (supra) these two approaches have been discussed in length

and in that decision the Supreme Court preferred to adopt the application approach.

Whatever the approach is being applied in this instance, the particular decision

that is been challenged does not fall into the category of a 'judgment"

Accordingly, agreeing with the contention of the learned Counsel for the respondent_,I r

4

decide that the two impugned decisions of the learned District Judge do not fall into

the category of a "judgment".

In the circumstances, it is my considered v1ew that the two orders that

are being impugned do not fall within the category of a judgment. Accordingly,

the party who is aggrieved with such an order should have first obtained leave of

the Court of Appeal in terms of Section 754(2) of the Civil Procedure adopting

the procedure mentioned in Section 757 found therein. Therefore. it is clear that the

appellant has failed to follow the procedure stipulated in the Civil Procedure

Code when he filed this appeal. In the case of Fernando vs. Sybil Fernando

[1997 (3) SLR 1], it is stated that the procedural law is also as important as the

substantive law. Hence, adoption of incorrect procedure in this instance should

result in dismissal of the appeal.

For the aforesaid reasons the appeal IS dismissed with costs fixed

at Rs. 50,000/=. Appeal dismissed with costs.

Appeal dismissed

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

AKN