==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 251/2007

1. Rasingolle Weerasinghe Mudiyanselage

Nandana Senarath Bandara alias Chandi

2. Rasingolle Weerasinghe Mudiyanselage

Kalubanda

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

H.C. Polonnaruwa 101/2006

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

PLAINTIFF-RESPONDENT

Nalin Ladduwahetti P.c. with C. Amaratunge

For the Accused-Appellant

:l> .s c,., C. Gunasekera pc. for Plaintiff-Respondent

1

2

ARGUED ON: 02.06.2014

DECIDED ON: 23.07.2014

GOONERATNE J.

Two Accused were indicted in the High Court of Polonnaruwa on two

counts. The 1st count is a charge of murder, of one W.G. Karunawathie. Count

No. 2 is a charge of attempted murder by causing injuries to one W.G.

Dharmasena by shooting the said injured person. The incident occurred on or

about lih November 1997. The 2nd Accused was acquitted by the learned High

Court Judge on 5.7.2007. 1st Accused-Appellant was convicted on both counts

and sentenced to death and on the 2nd count a sentence of 15 years rigorous

imprisonment was imposed with a fine of Rs. 5000/-, which carries a default

sentence of 6 months R.I.

The prosecution version was more or less established by the

evidence of the injured person W.G. Dharmasena who was called as witness

3

No.1 for the prosecution who gave direct evidence. Witness on the date of

incident resided at his parent's house. He had 7 brothers who were all

married. Witness had his own paddy field and on the day in question he went

to borrow a mammotty and had to pass the Accused house. Accused was

known to him for a long period of time. Accused was also a farmer and all of

them had worked in a paddy filed at some point of time. The evidence

revealed that the witness had intervened sometime ago (Singhala new years

day) and stopped the Accused assaulting another person. On both days

Accused and the witness had an exchange of words. This also happened in the

year 1997. Thereafter on the date of the incident the Accused had seen the

witness passing his house and had called him. When the witness went near

him the Accused held the witness by his shirt collar and threatened him and

had also thrown the push cycle of the witness to the nearby drain. Witness ran

to his house which was in the vicinity and told his father about the incident.

Witness's father had thereafter come to meet the Accused and asked him

ob about the assault ,9f1 his son and requested for the push cycle. The Accused

thereafter returned the cycle and the witness proceeded to the paddy field.

On the way witness met his brother's wife the deceased and both of them had

been going towards the paddy field.

4

Evidence disclose that the two of them, witness and the deceased

whilst passing the house of the Accused, heard the Accused father shouting

and threatening the witness. There is also evidence that transpired by the

injured that at that moment itself the Accused came armed with a gun and

shot the deceased on the head and she fell. The next gun shot was fired at the

witness who as a result of being shot fell and became unconscious. When he

~t> \\,tv--regained constiousness saw the deceased's f¢er on the ground with blood.

At the trial various positions had been taken by the Accused party

inclusive of self defence. Even at the hearing learned counsel for Appellant was

not able to demonstrate an acceptable defence to enable this court to

consider whether any relief or leniency could be shown to the Accused-

Appellant. The learned trial Judge has dealt with all necessary items of

evidence and very correctly convicted and sentenced the Accused. This court

having considered all the facts and circumstances of this case see no basis to

interfere with the conviction and sentence imposed by the learned trial Judge.

As such we dismiss this appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

v

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

J! , r

\I

!

I,!!II

5

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne J. J I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

{l Iii

I

I

I

II