==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA C.A. (PHC) No. 66/2006 H.C. Matara No. 102/2004 M.C. Matara No. 52042

M.G. Thamara

Petitioner Vs. M.H. Wasanthi Mallika

Respondent

1

1

C.A. (PHC) No. 66/2006 H.C. Matara No. 102/2004

M.C. Matara No. 52042

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

K. T. Chitrasiri, J &

W.M.M. MaUnie Gunarathne, J.

S.A. Collure with Dilanka Perera for Petitioner-Respondent Appellant

Rohan Sahabandu P.C. with Dulani Warawewa for the Responden t -Peti tioner-Responden t

16.09.2014

K. T. Chitrasiri, J.

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the judgment dated 02nd

February 2006 of the learned High Court Judge of Matara and to have

the order dated 19th July 2004 of the learned Magistrate of Matara,

affirmed.

Learned High Court Judge relying upon the decision in the case of

Ali Vs. Abdeen [2001 (1) SLR at 413] came to the conclusion that the

learned Magistrate was in error when he did not make an attempt to

settle the dispute between the parties as required by Section 66(6) of the

f; I

~

2

Primary Court Procedure Act No.44 of 1979. However, the aforesaid

decision was not followed in the case of Mohamed Nizam Vs Justin

Dias. [C A. PHC 16/2007] It was held so since the earlier decision in Ali

vs. Abdeen (supra) was delivered by a single judge Bench.

In Mohamed Nizam Vs Justin, (supra) Sisira de Abrew, J. agreeing

with Chitrasiri J. held that the question of non-compliance of section

66(6) by the Judge of the primary Court cannot be raised belatedly at the

stage of revision or appeal and inaction of the party by not raising the

objection in the primary Court amounts to waiver of such objection. This

view was upheld by a Divisional Bench of this Court as well which was

presided over by A.W.A.Salam J. [JAYANTHA GUNASEKARA VS.

JAYATISSA GUNASEKARA AND OTHERS Sri Lanka Law Reports 2011 -

Volume (1) page 284]

Presence of the law referred to in those two pronouncements is

conceded by the learned President's Counsel for the petitioner-

respondent too. Therefore, the Law now in place prevents appellate

courts interfering with the decisions of a Primary Court Judge on the

ground that he has failed to make an endeavour to settle the dispute

before proceeding with the inquiry though it is his duty in terms of

Section 66(6) of the Primary Court Procedure Act No.44 of 1979.

3

Hence, it is our view that the learned High Court Judge was in

error when he reversed the order of the learned Magistrate on the basis

that the trial judge has not made an attempt to settle the dispute before

proceeding with the inquiry into the application made in terms of Section

66 of the Primary Court Procedure Act. Accordingly, we set aside the

decision dated 02.02.2006 of the learned High Court Judge.

However, we also have carefully considered the order of the learned

Magistrate in order to ascertain whether he has applied the law referred

to in Section 68 of the Act No.44 of 1979 correctly when he decided to

hand over possession of the disputed land to the petitioner-respondent-

appellant.

In terms of Section 68(3) of the Act No.44 of 1979, it is the duty of

the Primary Court Judge to restore possession of a disputed land to the

person who was dispossessed within a period of two months prior to the

filing of information in Court. Clear evidence is found in the affidavits

filed in the Magistrate's Court to show that the respondent-appellant had

been dispossessed within a period of two months prior to the filing of

information. It is the decision of the learned Magistrate as well.

Upon perusal of the order of the trial judge, it is clear that he has

carefully considered the material before him and then only he has come

to the decision that the appellant was dispossessed from the land in

dispute within a period of two months prior to the filing of information in

4

court. In the circumstance, we do not see any error on the part of the

learned Magistrate when he decided so.

For the aforesaid reasons, we set aside the judgment dated 02nd

February, 2006 of the learned High Court Judge whilst affirming the

order dated 19th July, 2004 of the learned Magistrate of Matara.

Accordingly, this appeal is allowed with costs.

Appeal allowed

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

M.M.M. Malinie Gunarathne, J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

jmds