==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

C.A. 756/96 (F).

D.C. Bandarawela: 71/P

BEFORE: A W A SALAM, J

S.M.Sudubanda, Medaulpathegedara,

Karagahaulpotha, Medawela, Udukinda

PLAINTIFF -APPELLANT:.

Vs.

1. S.M.Sudubanda (deceased)

2. S.M.Heenmenika

3. S.M.Punchimenika

4. S.M.Samarakoon

5. S. M.Jayasekera

6. S.M.Ratnayake

7. S.M.Tikiribanda

8. S.M.Hemalatha Malini

9. Mallika Samarakoon,

All of Aravegedara,

Karagahaulpotha, Medawela,

Udukinda.

DEFENDANT-RESPONDENTS

COUNSEL: Lasitha Chaminda for plaintiff-appellant and Muditha

Premachandra for the defendant-respondents.

ARGUED ON: 14.1.2011

Written-submissions tendered:23.5.2011

DECIDED ON: 28.05.2012

\ J

A.W.A. Salam, J.

7he plaintiff-appellant in this judgment is referred to as

the plaintiff, the deceased 1 st defendant as the 1 st

defendant, 2nd defendant-respondent as the 2nd

defendant and 3rd to 9th substituted-defendants who were

substituted in the room of the deceased-1st defendant as

3rd to 9th substituted-defendants, designations they held

in the district court. The factual background to this

appeal in a nutshell is that the plaintiff fIled a partition

suit to put an end to the co-ownership of a paddy fIeld,

citing two persons as its original owners. According to the

plaint on a clear chain of title and devolution of shares

based on inheritance the plaintiff is entitled to an

undivided 5/18, the 1st defendant 12/18 and the 2nd

defendant 1/18 shares.

The 3rd to 9th substituted-defendants having indirectly

admitted the original ownership attributed in the plaint,

sought a dismissal of the partition action based on the

2

footing that Mudianselage Punchibande Welvidane, one of

the predecessors in title of the 1 st defendant had

prescribed to the entire corpus. The learned district judge

having investigated the title at the conclusion of the trial

held inter alia that the aforesaid Mudianselage

Punchibande Welvidane has acquired a prescriptive title

to the entire paddy field and dismissed the partition

action. This appeal has been preferred by the plaintiff

against the said judgment.

According to the evidence led at the trial Ukkumenika

and Punchimenika originally owned the paddy field in the

proportion of 1/2 share each. Ukkumenika by deed No

5130 dated 6 July 1904 attested by DF Gunasekara,

Notary Public transferred her undivided 1/2 share to

Kiribanda, Siribaddena and Siyathu making each one of

them entitled to an undivided 1/6 share of the corpus.

The aforesaid Siribaddena died intestate leaving as his

heirs Dingiri Menika, Ran Menika and Heen Menika who

became entitled to an undivided 1/18 share each. Ran

3

Menika died leaving as her sole heir Bandara Menika.

Siyathu (the owner of undivided 1/6 share), Ran Menika

(the owner of an undivided 1/18 share) and Bandara

Menika (the owner of an undivided 1/18 share)

transferred an undivided 1/6+ 1/ 18+ 1 / 18 shares in

favour of the plaintiff by deed No 2217 dated 5 June 1974

attested by A W A J Silva, Notary Public who thus

became entitled to an undivided 5/18 share.

Heen Menika one of the daughters of Siribaddena

remained the owner of the undivided 1/ 18 share on the

date of institution of the partition suit and therefore is

entitled to that share. The undivided 1/2 share originally

owned by Punchimenika had devolved Kiribanda who had

transferred the same to the 1 st defendant. The devolution

of· title and the manner in which almost all the transfer

deeds have been worded are clear indications of the

corpus having been owned in common by the parties.

I t has been laid down in the case of Corea V s Iseris

Appuhamy (15 NLR 65) that the possession of one

4

•

co-owner enures to the benefit of the other co-owners

and that a co-owner's possession in law is the possession

of his co-owners.

It is important to remember that by secret intention no

co-owner is able to prescribe against the other co-owners

unless nothing short of ouster or something equivalent to

ouster could be proved. In this matter undoubtedly,

Punchibanda has entered the subject matter as a

co-owner and therefore by merely forming a secret

intention as has done, by mortgaging the entire land

cannot commence adverse possession. Even in the

instrument of mortgage 3D2 and 3D3 Punchibanda has

stated that he had acquired title to the property

mortgaged by deed No.5359 and by paternal inheritance.

The two mortgage bonds m question not being

usufructuary mortgages could not have made any

changes with regard to the possession of the subject

matter. Above all, as the co-owners are closely related

and the land sought to be partitioned being a paddy field

5

the type of possession established on behalf of the 1 st

defendant does not establish ouster by an overt act or

adverse possession against the other co-owners.

In the circumstances, the fmding of the leaned district

judge that the 1 st defendant had prescribed to the corpus

is contrary to law and also evidence adduced at the trial.

Hence, the finding that the 1st defendant had prescribed

to the corpus is set aside and the case is remitted back

for reinvestigation of title. Appeal allowed subject to the

above alteration.

There shall be no costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Kwkj-

6

\