==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application under

Article 140 of the Constitution for

Mandates in the nature of Writs of

Certiorari and Mandamus.

1. W.J.R. Abyegunawardena,

CA (Writ) Application No: 392/2012 Ramson Enterprises,

7/49, padukka Road,

Godagama,

Meegoda.

Petitioner

Vs.

1. Director General of Customs

Customs House,

40, Main Street,

Colombo 11.

1

\ I

I

2

2. Athula Lankadeva,

Deputy Director of Customs,

40, Main Street,

Colombo 11.

3. Mahinda Dangampola,

Appraiser,

Deputy Superintendent of Customs,

40, Main Street,

Colombo 11.

4. The Attorney General,

The Attorney General's Department,

Hulftsdrop,

Colombo 12.

Respondents

!

\ I

[ [

r ,

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGPEDON

DECIDED ON

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake J.

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J

N. Kodithuwakku for the Petitioner.

Milinda Gunathilaka, DSG for the Respondent.

23.06.2014

Written Submission filed on 07.08.2014

02.10.2014

The Petitioner is the managing partner of the partnership business of

Ramson Enterprises which engages in the importation and the

distribution of rubber based goods including rubber houses from

Malaysia since 2005. A shipment of rubber houses ordered by the said

enterprises from its Malaysian supplier arrived in the port of Colombo in

October 2012. Formal customs declaration in respect of the above

3

mentioned shipment was presented for customs purposes to the

customs import division together with the commercial invoice and other

shipping documentation. As those documents were referred to the

valuation directorate, the 3rd Respondent uplifted the value declared in

the commercial invoice by 05% and it was referred to the 2nd Respondent

for approval. Then the 2nd Respondent raised the value form 5% to 50%

and demanded the Petitioner to pay additional levy for the uplifted

value. When the Petitioner explained to the 2nd Respondent that the

! transaction price declared in the commercial invoice was the true I

Petitioner has stated when he once again met the 2nd Respondent and

I

\

transaction price the 50% upliftment was deleted and made it 40%. The

I explained that value declared was the actual transaction value that he

was informed unless he pays additional duty from the uplifted value, it

would be enhanced by 100%.

I

The Petitioner has submitted a copy of the commercial invoice which he

! , has tendered for customs purposes. It is in this document that the

percentages of uplifted values have been made by the 2nd and 3rd

\

4 I I

Respondents. The Petitioner alleged that the acts of Respondents are

I f

arbitrary, ultra vires and violation of the principles of natural justice

guaranteed under Sec. 51 A (6) of the customs ordinance. Therefore, the

Petitioner has prayed for mandate in the nature of writ of certiorari

quashing the decision of the 2nd Respondent enhancing the transaction

value by 50% and a writ in the nature of Writ of Mandamus compelling

the 1st and/or the 2nd Respondents to accept the transaction value

declared in the commercial invoice.

The Respondents in their objections have admitted the transaction of

importation stated by the Petitioner and denied the allegations leveled

against them. Their position is that final decision had not been made to

reject the transaction value of the commercial invoice. The Respondents

have admitted that it is Sec. 51 A that refers to the schedule Ie' of the

customs ordinance which is applicable to the determination of value. But

their explanation for not giving reasons for alleged upliftment of the

value is that necessity for giving reasons did not arise as the transaction

value was not rejected. But it has been admitted that the 3rd Respondent

has recommended value verification to the 2nd Respondent for the

reasons recorded. Subsequently 2nd Respondent has noted that

5

indicative values available in relation to comparable products were up to

50% higher than the declared value.

This should not be the way of verification of the value under Sec 51 A of

the customs ordinance is the view of this court. If the authorized officers

see some reasons for the verification of value, an opportunity should be

given to the affecting party to show cause, why shouldn't it be done

Instead, it appears that what the Respondents have done was acting on

their own dominance in deciding the upliftment of the percentage of

value, arbitrarily. Therefore, this court is of the view that the whole

process of actions of the Respondents is ultra vires and contrary to the

rule of law.

Even though the Respondents have taken up the position that they have

not finalized their decisions, what appears on the record is that they

have decided on the value not only once, but several times. Since all

those decisions fall into the above category, it seems that they have

failed to make a justifiable decision for a verification of the value of

goods. Therefore, what appears to this court is the transaction value

declared in the commercial invoice has to be accepted for the customs

6

t I

!:

I I

f I

\

i / Ir

f

purposes. As such, this court grants reliefs prayed for in the paragraphs B

and C of the petition issuing the writ of certiorari and Writ of Mandamus

accordingly.

Relief granted.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

7