==== BLOCKS ==== 

I 1 I I l I ,

1 I i 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA 1137/96 (F)

DC Mt. Lavinia-2185/L

Neththasinghe Parasangilige

Susantha Fonseka Samarasekara,

No: 459, Galle Road, Mt. Lavinia.

Presently at No: 39, Hospital Road,

Homagama.

Plaintiff

Vs.

A. Abdul Azeez, No: 122A, Galle

Road, Dehiwala.

Defendant

AND/BETWEEN

Abdul Azeez, No: 122A, Galle

Road, Dehiwala.

Defenda nt-Appellant

Vs.

Neththasinghe Parasangilige

Susantha Fonseka Samarasekara,

No: 459, Galle Road, Mt.

Lavinia.

m ...... o N en o N ......

...J '-LJ') 00 ...... N <! Z :> :5 I-~ U o u::> en r:::-

C'/") ...... ...... <! u 1

Before : A.W.A. Salam, J.

Presently at No:39, Hospital Road,

Homagama.

Plai ntiff-Respondent

Counsel : Lakshman Rohan Welihinda for the Substituted

Defendant-Appellant and D. Akurugoda for the Plaintiff-Respondent.

Argued on : 20.03.2012

Written Submissions tendered on: 05.04.2013

Decided on : 12.09.2013

A.W.A. Salam, J.

The plaintiff-respondent (hereinafter referred to in this judgment

as the "plaintiff') filed action against the defendant-appellant

(hereinafter referred to in this judgment as the "defendant")

seeking the following main reliefs ...

1. That he be declared the owner of the premises bearing assessment No 122A and the land described in the 2nd schedule to the plaint. 2. A declaration that the defendant had unlawfully constructed shed with galvanise roof and plank. 3. An order directing the defendant to remove the shed and hand over the vacant possession of the strip of land to the south of the land described in schedule 2 to the plaint.

The defendant in his answer inter alia denied the maIn

averments in the plaint and averred that in the year 1939 his

2

f~ther came as the tenant of the plaintiffs father to a premises

facing Galle Road and thereafter the said original owner built

two boutiques and handed over the boutique bearing

No 122A, to the defendant. He further averred

that as the new boutique given to him is smaller in size than the

previous boutique occupied by him the original owner separately

reconstructed the shed in question and gave it to the defendant

to be used as a kitchen.

One of the main grounds urged by the defendant as his defence

is that he is a lawful and protected tenant of premises bearing

No 122A and the land described in the 2nd schedule to the

plaint. Admittedly, the said premises bearing No 122A and the

land described in the 2nd schedule to the plaint belong to the

plaintiff and the strip of land falls outside the boundaries of the

2nd schedule to the plaint has no connection to the substantial

relief prayed in prayer (a) to the plaint.

It is noteworthy to repeat the reliefs sought by the plaintiff in

prayer (a) to the plaint. That is a declaration that he is the owner

of the land and premises described in the 2ndp schedule to the

plaint. However, the ejectment sought in prayer (c) is from the

land to the South of premises bearing assessment No 122A

which is not the land described in schedule 2 to the plaint.

There was no dispute that the defendant is the tenant of the

premises bearing assessment 122 A which stands on the land

described in schedule 2 aforesaid. In order to eject the defendant

C"'/') .-t o N 0'1 C? N .-t

...J '-L/') 00 .-t N ~ Z :> :5 ..... ~ u o U) 0'1 '-,..... m .-t .-t <{ U 3

from the land to the South of the land described in schedule 2 to

the plaint, on the ground that the defendant has put up an

unauthorized construction and to have the said construction

removed, the plaintiff is under obligation to establish his title to

the said land, as the proceedings he has initiated against the

defendant is in the nature of a declaration of title.

The issues raised by the plaintiff at the trial need to be examined

with much attention being paid to the corpus identified therein.

Issue No 1 reads as follows ..

Is the defendant in possession of the part of the land

shown by red lines in plan 4849 produced along with

the plaint marked as X?

It is trite law that in this suit relating to declaration of title to

immovable property the burden of proof is on the party who

asserts ownership and where, in an action for declaration of title

to land, the defendant is in possession, the burden is on the

plaintiff to prove that he has dominium.

In the case of Peiris V s Sarunhamy 54 NLR 207, it was laid

down that the initial burden of proof in a rei vindicatio action is

on the plaintiff to prove his title and further established the

identity of the corpus.

In the. case of Wanigaratna Vs Juwanis Appuhamy 65 NLR

("I") M o N 01 o N M

....J ........

LI'I 00 M N ::! z 5> :5 I-~ u Cl 1.0 ~ ,.....

("I") M M « u 4

I

J I

165, it was held that in a rei vindicatio action the plaintiff must

prove and establish his title. He cannot ask for a declaration of

title in his favour merely on the strength that the defendant's

title is poor, unsatisfactory or not established.

Undoubtedly, the position is totally different in a case where a

landlord sues his tenant who may later have turned out to be a

trespasser for a declaration of title or the owner of a land who

sues his licensee for the similar declaration after the termination

of the licence. They cannot be strictly categorised as

rei vindicatio actions. In such cases strict proof of ownership as

contemplated in a rei vindicatio action may not be necessary.

But in this case, it has to be noted that the plaintiff had not

sued the defendant on the basis that the latter having entered

the land and premises from which his ejectment is sought, as a

tenant and later turned out to be a trespasser. Here, the position

maintained by the plaintiff is totally different. There is no

dispute that the plaintiff is the owner of the allotment of land

described in schedule 2 to the plaint and the premises bearing

122A standing thereon. To this effect there is a clear admission

made by the defendant that the plaintiff is the owner of the said

land and premises, particularly by reason of the contract of

tenancy that subsists between the parties.

The action filed by the plaintiff to have the defendant ejected

from the land to the South of premises bearing assessment

No 122A is totally a different land on the own showing of the

plaintiff and he has failed to plead title to the said land in his

m .-t o N en o N .-t

...J -LJ") co .-t N ~ z 5> ~ r ~ u o 1.0 en -I' m .-t .-t « u 5

plaint. In addition, he has failed to establish his title to the

portion of the land from which he sought the ejectment of the

defendant, although it is incumbent upon him.

Issue No 1 has been raised as if the defendant had admitted the

ownership of the plaintiff in respect of the land to the South of

the allotment of land described in schedule 2 to the plaint.

Therefore, the admission of the defendant of the contract of

tenancy relates to the land and premises which fall outside the

land and the shed from which the defendant is sought to be

ejected, on the footing that he is an unlawful occupier of the said

land & shed and that he has constructed an unauthorised

structure on it.

The defendant has specifically raised the question as to whether

the plaint filed in the action is contrary to Section 35 (1) of the

Civil Procedure Code. In terms of Section 35 of the Civil

Procedure Code, In an action for the recovery of immovable

property, or to obtain a declaration of title to immovable

property, no other claim, or any other cause of action, shall be

made unless with the leave of the court, except in

(a) Claims regarding mesne profits or arrears of rent in

respect of the property claimed;

(b) damages for breach of any contract under which the

property or any part thereof is held; or consequential on

the trespass which constitutes the cause of action; and

(c) claims by a mortgagee to enforce any of his remedies

under the mortgage.

rt'l .-t 0 N en 0 N .-t

...J "'" LI) 00 .-t N ~ Z :> :5 I-~ U a I.D en "'" r-... C'/') .-t .-t « u 6 fIfI!II

The example given in the Civil Procedure Code to Section 35 may

be useful and therefore is reproduced below.

A sues B to recover land upon the allegation that the land belongs to C, and that he A, has bought it of C. A makes C a party defendant; but he cannot, without leave of the court, join with this claim an alternative claim for damages against C for non-performance of his contract of sale.

As has been rightly contended by the learned Counsel for the

defendant the causes of action stated in sub-paragraphs (b), (c)

and (d) of paragraph 15 of the plaint have been joined with the

cause of action set out in sub-paragraph (a) in paragraph 15.

This is a clear violation of Section 35 of the Civil Procedure

Code, and the learned trial judge has failed to properly address

his mind to this issue. Even though the learned District Judge

has answered issue No 12 which is based on the alleged

violation of section 35 of the Civil Procedure Code, the learned

District Judge has not given any reason acceptable in law for his

finding relating to issue No 12.

In short, it would be seen that the prayer to the plaint refers to a

declaration of title in respect of the land in schedule 2 to the

plaint. As suggested by the learned counsel for the defendant

issue No 7 is referable to the 2nd schedule to the plaint and not

the 1 st schedule to the plaint. Issue No 1 is in fact based on the

title to the property described in the 1 st schedule to the plaint.

Even if the plaintiff establishes his title to the land described in

M ...-t o N 0'1 a N ...-t

...J '-LI) co ...-t N ::f z 5> :5 I-

~ U o 1.0 0'1 r:::-

M ...-t ...-t « u 7

t~e 1st schedule to the plaint yet he cannot get the defendant

ejected from the land and premises described in the 2nd

schedule as he has not asked for the ejectment of the defendant

from the land and premises described in the 2nd schedule.

In the circumstances, it is quite clear that the plaintiff has failed

to put the correct issue before court and there is no nexus

between the prayer and the declaration of title sought.

As has been correctly submitted by the learned counsel for the

defendant even if the answer to issue 1 is in the affirmative, yet

the plaintiff is entitled to have issue No 7 answered in the same

manner as No 1 relates only to lot B in plan No 513. Therefore it

could be seen that the judgment of the learned District Judge

has been entered on the wrong premise that the plaintiff has

established his rights to the land on which the galvanize roofed

shed stands.

By reason of the learned District Judge having entered judgment

for the plaintiff without clear proof of his title to the land in

question, a serious injustice has occurred resulting in the

travesty of justice.

No purpose would be served by sending the case back for retrial,

as the outcome of the plaintiffs action has to be same on the

present pleadings even if evidence is led once again. In the

circumstances, I have no option but to set aside the judgment of

the learned District Judge and dismiss the plaintiffs action for

m .-I 0 N 0'\ 0 N .-I

-I ........

Lf) 00 .-I N ::! 2 :> ::i I-~ U 0 \D 0'\ ........ I' m .-I .-I « u 8

I

want of proof of title to the portion of the land where the

defendant is said to have put up a shed.

Accordingly the appeal is allowed and the impugned judgment

set aside subject to costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

NRj-

C'I') .... o N m o N ....

.....J .......

Lf'l 00 .... N ~ z 5> :5 f-2 u o ~ ~ C'I') .... .-t 5 9