==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANkA

C.A.ApperuNo.704/95F D.C. Mathugama 1022/L

In the matter of an appeal

Seetha Sarojini Wijegunaratne No. 1630, Kotta Road, Rajagiriya.

Plaintiff

-Vs-

Gunaratne Wickramarachchi Kirigrugodella, Wadugoda, Payagrua.

Defendant

And now Between

Gunaratne Wickramarachchi Kirigrugodella, Wadugoda, Payagrua.

Defendant! Appellant

-Vs-

Seetha Sarojini Wijegunaratne No. 1630, Kotta Road, Rajagiriya.

Plaintiff! Respondent

?of. Counsel: W.Dayaratne with R. Jayawardene for the

"

Plaintiff/Respondent

Niluka Dissanayake for the

Defendant/Appellant

Written Submissions: 1-4-2011 (Plaintiff/Respondent)

Before: Rohini Marasinghe J

Judgment: 20-06-11

CA 704-95

The parties have agreed to conclude the appeal by way of written submissions.

(Vide journal entry dated 28-7-2010) The defendant-appellant had been absent

and unrepresented on two occasions and on his applicati.on the appeal was re-

listed for hearing on those occasions. The appellant thereafter had taken

several dates to file his written submissions in support of the averments

contained in his petition of appeal. But he had failed to file the same. On 1-

4-2011 he had taken a final date to file his written submissions. And, on the

same day he had agreed before the court that in the event the written

submissions were not tendered by the agreed date to court the appeal would

be dismissed in limine.

Notwithstanding the undertaking of the appellant I have not dismissed the

appeal on that ground.

The written submissions were not filed by the appellant. The written

submissions of the respondent were filed on record. According to the

submissions of the plaintiff-respondent an action had been filed against the

defendant- appellant seeking inter alia a declaration of title to the land

described in the plaint. The identity of the corpus was the main issue. The

plaintiff submits that he had sufficiently identified the land in suit. At the

trial the plaintiff-respondent had taken a commission. The surveyor had

superimposed the plan No 204 on the Surveyor General's plan no 63221.

Additionally, the surveyor had given evidence at the trial. The defendant

also had taken a commission. That plan no 851 was prepared by a surveyor

named Ilangakone. The surveyor Ilangakone had surveyed the land as shown

by the defendant and superimposed the plan No 204 and prepared the plan

No 851. That plan had been marked as V6. The learned trial Judge had

considered the evidence of both surveyors and accepted the evidence of the

surveyor Perera who had prepared the plan No 204. Consequently, the

learned trial Judge had answered the issues relating to the identity of the

corpus in favour of the plaintiff. The reasons for this determination are

contained in pages 5 to 7 of the impugned judgment. The issue relating to

the identity of the corpus had been sufficiently addressed by the trial Judge.

The defendant - appellant was one Gunaratne Wickraarachchi. The learned

trial Judge had rejected the evidence of the defendant. (Vide page 5 of the

Judgment)

I see no reason to interfere with the decision of the trial Judge. The judgment

is affirmed.

The appeal is dismissed. V Rohini Marasinghe J Judge of the Court of Appeal.