==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A. 879/98 (F) Mathugama DC Case No. P 2464

Dewarakottage Pemawathi, "Nandana", Panthiya, Mathugama.

Plaintiff -Vs- Dewarakottage Hendrik Appuhami, "Nandana", Panthiya, Mathugama. W. Francis Perera, Pissawatta, Panthiya, Mathugama.

Defendents And W. Francis Perera, Pissawatta, Panthiya, Mathugama. 2nd Defendent - Appellant -Vs- Dewarakottage Pemawathi, "Nandana", Panthiya, Mathugama.

Plaintiff-Respondent

Dewarakottage Hendrik Appuhami, "Nandana", Panthiya, Mathugama.

1st Defendent-Respondent And Now Between W.T. Roshan Perera, W.T.D. Anuradhi Perera Both of Welkandala Road, Panthiya, Mathugama.

Petitioners -Vs- W. Francis Perera (Deceased), Pissawatta, Panthiya, Mathugama.

2nd Defendent- Appellant-Respondent -Vs- Dewarakottage Pemawathi, "Nandana", Panthiya, Mathugama.

Plaintiff-Respondent-Respondent Dewarakottage Hendrik Appuhami, "Nandana", Panthiya, Mathugama.

1st Defendent-Respondent-Respondent

Case No. CA 879/98 (F) DC Matugama 2464/P

BEFORE

COUNSEL

DECIDED ON

K.T. CHITRASIRI, J.

K.T. Chitrasiri, J.

Prinath Fernando for the Petitioners.

Amanthi Jayasinghe for the Plaintiff

Respondent.

18.01.2013

When this matter was mentioned on 04.12.2012, the Counsel Mr.

Dilan Perera who appeared watching the interest of the heirs of the

deceased appellant had moved time to file substitution papers. On that

date Court had observed that several dates were given to effect the

substitution and thereafter had made order giving them the final

opportunity to file substitution papers. Even though they were to file

substitution papers two weeks before today, those had been tendered

only on 16.01.2013 namely day before yesterday.

Having perused the petition and the other documents filed, it is

seen that the petitioners being the children of the deceased appellant

had moved that they be substituted. Petitioners have left out their

mother who is the wife of the deceased being substituted in the room of

the deceased appellant. Wife of the deceased was present in Court on

1

! i

' 1 l l I

I l I ! I l I l l i I I l I I I \ I

the last occasion. Therefore, the application made in the petition dated

16.01.2013 is erroneous. Accordingly, the said petition dated

16.01.2013 is dismissed.

It is brought to the notice of Court that the 2nd Defendant

Appellant had died in the year 1999 and that was 13 years before. All

this time no steps were taken to substitute the heirs of the deceased 2nd

Defendant Appellant. Such conduct clearly shows that the heirs of the

appellant had not prosecuted the appeal diligently. In the

circumstances, Court makes an order abating the appeal.

Registrar is directed to keep the record for a period of two months

from today and soon thereafter to send the record to the District Court

of Matugama allowing the learned District Judge to take necessary

steps.

Appeal ts abated. Accordingly, proceedings in this Court are

terminated.

Proceedings terminated.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

KRL/-

2