==== BLOCKS ==== 

{ 1 I 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

1. A. A. Kamal Nishantha

2. A. Nandana Chandrakumara

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

C.A. No. 96/2010

H.C. Anuradhapura 149/2004

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

P. R. Walgama J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDENT

Suranga Bandara for the Accused-Appellants

Anoopa de Silva S.S.c., for the Complainant-Respondent

10.11.2014 & 27.11.2014

05.12.2014

2

GOONERATNE J.

The two Accused-Appellants were indicted in the High Court of

Anuradhapura on a charge of attempt to commit robbery of a van bearing No.

251-5680 which was in the possession of one Jayasinghe Arachchilage Luxman

Shantha kumara by the use of a deadly weapon on or about 01.01.1999, an

offence punishable under Section 384 read with Section 32 of the Penal Code.

Both Accused-Appellants were convicted and sentenced to 20 years rigorous

imprisonment, and a fine of Rs. 50,000/= was imposed which carries a default

sentence of 5 years rigorous imprisonment. We heard submissions of both

counsel on either side. The following facts are not in dispute.

On the day of the incident the complainant named in the indictment

was in a vehicle park awaiting hires. The two Accused-Appellants approached

the complainant and wanted to hire the above van being No. 251-5680 to

proceed to Habarana from Polonnaruwa. A fee of Rs. 800/= was agreed and

they proceeded on the Polonnaruwa-Habarana road. The 1st Accused was

seated in the rear seat and the 2nd Accused in the front seat with the

complainant driver. Closer to the Minneriya jungle the 1st Accused told the

3

complainant driver to stop the vehicle as he had to answer a call of nature.

However the complainant fell suspicion about such request and proceeded. A

little while later the 1st Accused from behind held the complainant driver by

the neck and the 2

nd Accused showed a knife and threatened the complainant,

who stopped the vehicle and got down. Thereafter a there was a scuffle

between the parties and the Accused party attempted to drag the complainant

to the nearby jungle, when another bus was seen on the main road and the

complainant had raised cries. As a result the bus stopped and the crowd in the

bus came to his assistance. At that moment the Accused party fled the scene

of the crime.

In the submission of both learned Senior State Counsel and the

learned counsel for the two Accused-Appellant the following matters were

highlighted.

(a) The identification parade held 5 months after the incident.

(b) Prior to the above parade the police had shown the two Accused-

Appellants to the complainant.

(c) In view of (a) & (b) above both learned counsel agree that the identification

parade is flawed.

(d) The learned trial Judge rejected the position of the identification parade

but relied upon a dock identification to convict the Accused party.

J I I

I I I I

I I i

I

I I i I t

4

(e) Dock identification, was at the trial which had been held 10 years after the

date of incident (1.1.1999).

(f) It is unsafe to rely on a dock identification after a lapse of so many years

and after a flawed identification parade.

(g) Trial Judge who heard the evidence did not write the Judgment. The trial

Judge who wrote the judgment had not adopted the proceedings and

merely continued with the trial held before her predecessor or in office.

This court observes that in view of (a) to (g) above and having

perused the evidence led in this case, we are of the view that the conviction

against the two Appellants cannot be permitted to stand. The identity of

Accused person are highly doubtful and suspicious. Further there is a clear

breach of Section 48 of the Judicature Act.

Whatever the provisions contained in Section 48 of the Judicature

Act, an Accused party is entitled to a fair hearing. Even if no application was

made for a fresh trial or to recall some witnesses by the Accused-Appellant,

when a Judge is on a transfer order or is unable to perform due to the reasons

contained in Section 48 of the Judicature Act, the succeeding trial Judge is

under an obligation and duty to adopt the proceedings and proceed with the

trial, having ascertained from either party. If proceedings are not adopted it

would be a basic violation of a fundamental right of the Accused party.

I

! 5

I I

In these circumstances there is no purpose in sending the case for a

trial de nova. In any event identity being in doubt and identified under

j

I

suspicious circumstances it is unsafe to convict and as such we proceed to set

aside the conviction and sentence. As at today over 15 years have lapsed form

the date of incident. The two Accused-Appellants are serving a term of

imprisonment since the year 2010. We quash the conviction and sentence, and

acquit both Accused-Appellants.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P. R. Walgama J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL