==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Kudupitiya Arachchilage Wickremasinghe alias Chuti Ukkung,

Accused -Appellant

C.A. Appeal No. 304/2006

H.C.Kurunegala No. H.C.231/2001

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General,

Respondent

SISIRA J DE ABREW, J .(P / CA) &

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILALA, J.

Indika Mallawaarachchi for

Accused-Appellant.

Harripriya Jayasundera D.S.G. for the Attorney General.

10.03.2014

1

Sisira J. de Abrew, J.(P/CA)

Accused-Appellant produced by Prison Authorities is present in Court.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

2

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of

a man named Punchi Naidelage Premaratne and was sentenced to

death. Being aggrieved the said conviction and the sentence he has

appealed to this court. Facts of this case as narrated by the

prosecution witnesses may be briefly summarized as follows. On the

day of the incident the deceased person and one Sirisena went to the

boutique of the accused-appellant. Both of them purchased liquor

from the wife of the accused-appellant. Sirisena went to the

compound. The deceased Premaratne continued to stay near the

table of the boutique. Little later Sirisena's attention was drawn as

he heard some noise. When he looked back he saw the accused

appellant dealing a blow to the head of the deceased. The

deceased person fell on the ground, got up and walked again.

Sirisena heard the deceased telling one Bande Mudalali that the

accused-appellant assaulted on his hand. The deceased too admitted

to his son that the accused-appellant dealt a blow on his hand.

3

The accused-appellant also gave evidence. According to his evidence

he saw the deceased Premarathne hugging his wife. He further says

that his son came and questioned the deceased Premaratne as to why

he ate the egg on his plate of the nce. At this time according to

accused-appellant, deceased Premaratne told the son of the accused-

appellant that he would dash him on the floor. At this time

accused-appellant took a club and attacked on the hand of the

deceased person. The question that must be considered by this court

is whether the accused-appellant should be convicted of the offence

of murder or of the offence of culpable homicide not amounting to

murder on the basis of grave and sudden provocation. Learned

Counsel for the accused-appellant submits that the accused-appellant

should have been convicted of the offence of culpable homicide not

amoun ting to murder on the basis of grave and sudden

provocation. I now advert to this question. Soon after the incident

when the son of the deceased person questioned the accused-

appellant as to why he assaulted the deceased person, the accused-

appellant replied that the deceased person came and inquired

about his family affairs. This was admitted by Wasantha the son of

the deceased person. Thus when we consider the said evidence of

the son of the deceased, certain amount of credibility can be

attached to story of the accused-appellant. When we consider the

all the above matters, we feel that the accused-appellant under

grave and sudden provocation

person.

4

inflicted InJunes to the deceased

Learned trial Judge rejected the accused-appellant's evidence. One of

the reasons was that although the accused-appellant says that he

was assaulted by a crowd he did not sustain any injury. We feel that

the said observation by the learned trial Judge is wrong. The son

of the deceased admitted that he too assaulted the accused-

appellant. Therefore the said observation by the learned trial Judge

is wrong. Learned trial Judge has observed that there had not been

a plate of rice when the police visited the scene. The wife of the

accused-appellant was present at home at the time of the incident.

It is difficult to think that the wife of the accused-appellant allowed

the plate of rice to remain on the table without washing it. Learned

trial Judge has failed to consider this aspect. We therefore hold

that the said reason to reject the accused-appellant is also not

correct. Learned trial Judge has observed that there had not been a

table at the place of the offence. But the prosecution witnesses had

admitted that there was a table at the scene of the offence. These

were the reasons given by the learned trial Judge to reject the

evidence of the accused-appellant. We feel that these reasons are not

correct. When witness Sirisena gave evidence, the Judge who

5

convicted the accused-appellant did not record his evidence. But the

learned trial Judge, in his judgment, has stated that he observed the

demeanour and deportment of witness Sirisena. If he did not record

the evidence of witness Sirisena how did he observe the demeanour

and deportment of Sirisena? Learned trial Judge has cited the above

reasons to accept Sirisena's evidence.

When we consider the evidence led at the trial, we feel that the

accused-appellant inflicted the injuries to the deceased person

under grave and sudden provocation. We therefore hold the view

that he should have been convicted of the offence of culpable

homicide not amounting to murder on the basis of grave and sudden

provocation which is an offence punishable under section 297 of the

Penal Code.

For the above reasons, we set aside conviction of murder and death

sentence and enter conviction of the offence of culpable homicide not

amounting to murder on the basis of grave and sudden provocation

which is an offence punishable under Section 297 of the Penal Code.

We sentence the accused-appellant to a term of 10 years rigorous

imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs. Two Thousand and Five

6

Hundred (2,500/-) carrying a default sentence three months simple

imprisonment.

We direct the Prison Authorities to implement the sentence from the

date of sentencing by the learned trail Judge.

Verdict altered.

PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

/mds