==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA 123/99 (F)

D.C. Galle Case No: 12307 /L

BEFORE : A.W.A. Salam, J.

1. Don Nissanka Jayawardane, 2. Udugama Koralalage Soma Jayawardane. No. 27, Lower Dickson Road,

Gall e.

Defendant-Appellants.

Vs.

Habaragamuralaage Janaka Wasantha Peiris Goonathilake,

Athapaththu W alawwa,

Lower Dickson Road,

Galle.

Plaintiff-Respondent

COUNSEL : S.N. Vijithsingh for the Defendant-Appellants and C.E. de Silva for the Plaintiff-Respondent.

ARGUED ON : 01.10.2012

WRITIEN SUBMISSIONS TENDERED ON: 20.12.2012

DECIDED ON : 21.03.2013.

A.W .A. Salam, J.

The facts relevant to this appeal briefly are as follows. The plaintiff

respondent (plaintiff) filed action for a declaration of title to the allotments

of land described in paragraph 2 of the plaint, subject to the trust pleaded

in paragraph 5. The defendants inter alia disputed the title of the plaintiff to

the lands in question and pleaded specifically that they have acquired a

prescriptive title to the said property. The case proceeded to trial on seven

issues. At the trial on behalf of the plaintiff, his wife, the watcher of the

lands, licensed surveyor G H G Arthur Alwin Silva gave evidence and the

plaintiff's case was closed reading in evidence documents marked P1 to P

30.

In unfolding the defence the 1st defendant gave evidence and thereafter

the case of the defendants was closed producing no documents. The

learned district judge by judgement dated 18 December 1998 held inter

alia that the plaintiff is the owner of the subject matter of the action as

averred in paragraph 3 to 8 of the plaint subject to the trust pleaded in

paragraph 2. He further held that the defendants have entered the property

as tenants. The trial judge observed that the claim made by the

defendants' was unlawful and cannot be justified in any manner. Ttie

present appeal has been preferred by the defendant-appellants

(defendants).

The subject matter of the action has been described in paragraphs 2 (a), 2

(b) and 2 (C) of the amended plaint and depicted as lot I, J and lot L in plan

No 126 produced at the trial marked as P1. The several allotments of land

described in the plain are situated adjacent to each other. On a reading of

the pleadings it is clear that the identity of the corpus was not in dispute. In

order to identify the land for purpose of the action, a commission was

0 z

Q) en et$ u

Q) ~ 0 u 0

2

issued to G H G A S De Silva, licensed surveyor who prepared plan

bearing No 17 41 dated 2 August 1993 and 29 August 1993. For the

purposes of the present case in the said plan the subject matter of the

action has been depicted as lots depicted as lots I, J, J1, L, L 1, L2 and L3.

The learned counsel of the plaintiff has submitted that at the close of the

plaintiff's case, the documents marked as P1 to P 30 were not objected to

and the defendants simply moved for an adjournment to present their

case. In other words the defendants have waived the necessity to prove

the documents of the plaintiff which ever were marked subject to proof. In

this respect the learned counsel has drawn my attention to the case of Sri

Lanka Port Authority and Another Vs Jugoolinija- Boal East-1981 (1) Sri

Lanka Law Report 18 in which the principle was laid down that, if no

objection is taken when at the close of a case documents are read in

evidence, they are evidence for all purposes. The principle of law thus laid

down in that case received the approval of the Supreme Court

subsequently in the case of Wanigaratna Vs Wanigaratna 1997 Sri Lanka

Law Report 267.

Applying the above principle the defendants' failure to object to the

documents at the close of the case when documents were read in

evidence by the plaintiff must be taken as a waiver of objection originally

raised requiring the proof of certain documents. In the circumstances, the

learned district judge was quite correct in accepting the uncontroverted

documents produced by the plaintiff marked as P1 toP 30.

When one takes into consideration the evidence adduced in proof of the

plaintiffs case, no difficulty could possibly arise as to the paper title to the

property and the identity of the corpus. When the plaintiff has established

0 z

Cl) (/J cd ()

Cl) ~ d

() 0

3

both the identity of the corpus and his title to the same, then it is the duty of

the defendants to negate the effect of such proof. As far as the present

case is concerned, the only way in which the defendants could have met

the plaintiff's case was to adduce cogent evidence relating to prescriptive

title.

lt is trite law that where a party to an action for a declaration of title to a

land invokes the Provisions of Section 3 of the Prescription Ordinance in

order to defeat the ownership of an adverse claimant to immovable

property, the burden of proof rests squarely and fairly on him to establish a

starting point for his or her acquisition of prescriptive rights. This principle

of law was reiterated recently in the case of Sirajudeen Vs Abbas 1994 (2)

Sri Lanka Law Report 365. lt was emphasised in that case that one of the

essential elements of a plea of prescriptive title as provided for in Section 3

of the Prescription Ordinance is proof of possession by a title adverse to or

independent of that of a claimant or the plaintiff.

The documents marked as P17 to P19 are demonstrative that the rates in

respect of the premises in suit had been paid by the plaintiff up to the year

1992: Further, according to the counterfoils of the rent receipts produced

by the plaintiff, the defendants have paid rent in respect of the premises in

suit even in that year 1983. In such a circumstance, it is the duty of the

defendants to meet the plaintiffs case with clear evidence relating to an

"overt act" to establish that the status of the defendants in relation to the

land in question as tenants was converted into one of an adverse to and

independent possession. The defendants have undoubtedly failed in

establishing the said ingredients to constitute a valid prescriptive title to the

land in suit and therefore the learned district judge's finding on that

account cannot be faulted.

0 z V m as ()

V ~ d () Cl

4

In the circumstances, I regret my inability to subscribe to the view

expressed by the learned counsel for the appellants or the defendants that

the learned district judge has misdirected himself with regard to the

principles of law on the question of plea of prescription setup by the

defendants. As such, I have no alternative but to dismiss the appeal

subject to costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

NR/-

5