==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A. 128511998 (F) D.C. Matara 8085/L

Ishantha A vindra layawickrama West Charlie Mount Estate, Uduwaka

Also at, No. 655/3, Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 05.

Attorney appointed by Suresh Rashindra layawickrama of South Ville, England.

PLAINTIFF

Vs.

Wimaladasa Pallewala Akurugoda, Sulthanagoda

DEFENDANT

And

Wimaladasa Pallewala Akurugoda, Sulthanagoda

PETITIONER-APPELLANT

Vs.

1

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERA TNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J.

Ishantha A vindra Jayawickrama West Charlie Mount Estate, Uduwaka

Also at, No. 655/3, Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 05.

Attorney appointed by Suresh Rashindra Jayawickrama of South Ville, England.

PLAINTIFF ·RESPONDENT

Rohan Sahabandu with Dulani Warawewa for Petitioner-Appellant

Uditha Egalahewa with Ranga Dayananda F or the Plaintiff-Respondent

19.03.2012

25.05.2012

This is an appeal from a default judgment in a land case. The

summons returnable date was 03.01.1994. Petitioner-Appellant was absent

and unrepresented on the said date, and court fixed the case for exparte trial

2

on 21.2.1994. After leading exparte evidence judgment was entered in

favour of the Plaintiff-Respondent and decree entered in terms of the Civil

Procedure Code. In the Petition of Appeal (paragraph 5) it is stated that

before service of notice of decree the petitioner filed petition and affidavit to

have the judgment and decree vacated. It was the position of the petitioner

that he was prevented from attending court on the notice returnable date due

to severe illness. Inquiry was held by the learned District Judge to decide

whether the exparte judgment could be vacated. However after purge default

inquiry, trial Court Judge dismissed the application to vacate the exparte

judgment, on 29.6.1988.

It was the position of the Appellant that he was suffering from

swelling of joints and unable to move. This illness is described by the party

concerned as Rheumatic Arthritis. The Appellant was treated by a native

physician, who gave evidence on behalf of the Appellant at the purge default

inquiry. In the written submission Appellant states, the Native Physician in

his evidence refer to the register of patients and confirm that he treated the

Appellant on 02.01.1994. In the register particulars of Defendant-Appellant,

home, date of treatment, the No. assigned, address of patient and a brief

3

description of the illness stated and evidence on those matters had been

elicited. Perusal of the proceedings does not indicate whether the register

itself was produced in court. The evidence reveal, as stated according to the

register the Petitioner-Appellant was treated on 3 separate occasions for the

same illness.

I have also made a note of the comments of the Petitioner as

regards the judgment.

The trial Judge accept that the Petitioner-Appellant was treated

for the illness as stated by him and for being treated for a long period.

Further the Judge states that evidence does not show that he was unable to

walk on the particular day (02.01.1994) to visit his Native Physician, who

was 5 miles away. Defendant had walked 5 miles. Appellant stress that this

is on erroneous assumption and a wrong inference which amounts to a

serious misdirection on the part of the Original Court. It is also observed in

the written submission of the Appellant that the trial Judge does not find the

Physician to be a liar or to have uttered falsehoods.

This court takes the view that, what is significant in this type of

inquiry is to ascertain whether in fact the Petitioner-Appellant was prevented

from attending court due to illness. I have perused an unreported judgment

4

bearing No CA 841196 (F) D.C. Kegalle 4687/L of Justice T.B.

Weerasooriya (argued and decided on 23.5.2000) where a similar view had

been expressed in a similar case. In the above CA 841196 (F) the defendant

was on the i h date of trial absent but the Appellate Court based on above

dicta set aside the default judgment of the Lower Court. Another point

stressed by the Appellant was that the type of illness of the Appellant-

Petitioner cannot be cured immediately. It takes time and in fact the decease

can only be controlled.

The learned Counsel for Appellant has drawn the attention of

this court to the following Indian Case and also to certain observations as

follows:

In Chakvadhar Choudhary vs. Padmalav Das AIR 1983 Ori 184 - it was observed

thus. "The mental state of a person is subject to and dependent upon other

faculties of the person concerned. With the same type of illness one person may

be going about his errands while another may be nervous and panicky and

consequently disabled - this is a matter which has to be kept in mind, as in the

instant case- Court accepts that the defendant was treated for this illness for a long

period of time. The Courts judgment was based on the single fact, that the

'Doctor' could not say whether the patient "could not walk" - but it is respectfully

submitted the Court would have to look at the issue subjectively. The Indian case

was in relation to the plea of High Blood Pressure.

5

The Appellant's Counsel emphasis that conclusion drawn by

the learned District Judge from relevant facts are not rationally possible and

is perverse per H.N.G. Fernando J. in 64 NLR 217. It is also stated that the

Appellate Court is generally in as good as position to evaluate the evidence

as the trial Judge and ought not to shrink from that task 68 NLR 49.

The learned Counsel for Plaintiff-Respondent more or less

supported the order of the learned District Judge an opposed all moves to set

aside the order of the trial Judge. Learned Counsel also submitted that the

evidence offered by the Appellant and his witnesses were contradicting each

other and no court should place any reliance on same. Appellant failed to

tender a Medical Certificate. As such evidence of the Native Physician

should be considered cautiously. In a well considered written submission of

the Respondent the case of Walter Nutter & Co V s. Mohammadu Lebbe

cited.

Bonser CJ held:

"Mere illness of the defendant is no excuse for his proctor not preparing or filing

an answer in time. To justify the acceptance of an answer after its due date, i!

should be proved that the defendant was so ill that he could not attend to business

or see his proctor. "

It was also the submission of the Respondent that the

Physician's evidence described the symptoms of the alleged illness and

6

testified that anybody suffering from the said illness would expenence

difficulty in walking, and if the pain is severe it may be impossible to walk.

As such the evidence does not indicate that it would have not been possible

to move/walk and thus Appellant was unable to attend court. In other words

the Appellant was not in a serious condition on the date in question.

In the case of Dick V s. Piller. Cited with approval In W.

Stephen Fernando Vs. W. James Fernando 55 NLR 119.

"It (the certificate) does not even say that the defendant is at present suffering

from acute gastritis. But only say she is under treatment for gastritis. It may be

that he is now not so bad as he was when he first started treatment. I refuse the

application for a date."

The requirement under Section 86(2) of the Civil Procedure

Code is for the Defendant to satisfy that he had reasonable grounds for his

default. This is the only requirement to be considered and no other

extraneous matter of fact need be considered by court. The fact that the

Defendant was a habitual litigant or that he was involved in fraud etc. are not

matters that should influence court. As regards in the case in hand did the

Defendant-Appellant adduce sufficient evidence to satisfy court of his

reasonableness not to attend court on the summons returnable date. There is

7

no specific challenge to his illness, and the question of mobility seems to be

the fact that has influenced the Original Court to have refused to vacate the

order.

The condition of the illness, the treatment taken for same and

the continuous nature of the illness does not seem to be in doubt. It is the

person who suffers from an illness who could really explain the difficulty to

get about. No doubt the party concerned was in constant pain. I think the

question of walking or mere illness would not be the only ground to refuse

an application of this nature. However, even if a person could walk, if he is

prevented from normal movements as a human being due to pain, would

certainly be a reasonable ground to excuse a default. Fact that he did not

make prior arrangements before the day in question or that he could not

contact his Attorney on time due to his own indifferent attitude would tend

to encourage a Court of Law to arrive at an adverse finding. Nevertheless

what is significant in an inquiry of this nature is to ascertain as observed

above whether in fact he was prevented from attending court, due to illness.

Both physical and mental element would playa role in this type of case and

illness as relied upon by the Appellant. The trial Judge has not rejected the

8

evidence of the Native Physician. Court will have to consider the case of the

Appellant subjectively. Trial Judge accept that the Appellant was suffering

from the illness and was treated by the Physician on 02.01.1992.

It is no easy task for a Court of Law to conclude on the degree

of pain due to a complicated illness. Court or layman could arrive at a

decision if the illness was just common cold or flu, or uncomplicated

gastritis. An illness of a high degree of complications is best left to a

Medical Practitioner to comment. As such I am of the view that the benefit

should be given to the Appellant although certain lapses could be detected in

the case in it's entirety (I do not propose to repeat those which need to be

determined according to the facts and circumstance of each case).

In all the above circumstances I set aside the order of the

learned District Judge dated 29.6.1998. However the Plaintiff-Respondent

need to be compensated by way of costs. The Appellant-Respondent would

only be entitled to file answer and proceed with the interpartes trial by

paying prepayment of costs to the Plaintiff-Respondent in a sum of Rs.

20,0001-. Unless costs in the said sum is paid on a specified date and time to

be decided by the learned District Judge, Appellant will loose his right to

proceed to defend his case. Failure to comply with this order will result in

judgment being entered in favour of the Plaintiff-Respondent.

9

Order vacated subject to above direction. Registrar of this court

is directed to forward the record of this case along with this order to the

relevant Registrar of the District Court forthwith.

~ &",~J-

JU~OF T1fu~~~~~~F APPEAL

IIt

10