==== BLOCKS ==== 

In the court of appeal of the Democratic Socialist

Republic of Sri Lanka.

Case No. CA 282/97F

D.C. (Kurunegala) 4550/L

I P Menika, Temple Road, Amabanwata, Humbuluwawa,

Alawwa

Defendant-Appellant

Vs

1. W M Siriwardena,

2. H M Somawathie

Both of "Chandrapaya", Mahragamawatta,

Giriulla.

Plaintirr- Respondents

A. W .A.Salam. J

Lakshman Perera with Pasan Gunasena and Dulantha Perusingha for the Defendant-Appellant and Mudithavo Premachandra for the Plaintiff-Respondents.

Argued on: 13.01.2011

Written Submissions tendered on: 14.02.2011

Decided on: 06.06.2011 • •

1

A W A Salam, J

The plaintiffs filed action seeking interalia a declaration of title to the

subject matter admittedly a paddy field and ejectment of the

defendant. Although the defendant filed answer admitting the corpus

and the title pleaded by the plaintiff, objected to the jurisdiction of

court on the premise that he is an "ande" cultivator of the field.

The main issue raised by the plaintiffs' relates to the alleged unlawful

possession of the defendant of the paddy field as from 1988 yala

season. The defendant raised the plea of want of jurisdiction and

prescription of the cause of action.

The defendant in his answer failed to seek any relief except the

dismissal of the action and cost of suit. The defendant has not sought

any declaration either to have himself declared as "ande" cultivator or

for any other relief in the assertion of his "ande" rights.

Arising from the answer of the defendant, the plaintiffs' raised an issue

as to whether the averments 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 contained in the

plaint should be deemed to have been admitted by the plaintiff.

Another important consequential issue raised by the plaintiff was

2

whether the defendant is entitled to raise the defence of

limitation/prescription by reason of her failure to admit or deny

paragraph 13 of the plaint.

At the trial the 1 st plaintiff gave evidence and also led the evidence of

the Grama Niladhari of the area and closed the case producing

documents PI to P 25. None of the documents marked by the plaintiff

were objected to by the defendant at the close of the plaintiffs case,

when documents were read in evidence. Therefore, the documents

marked as PI to P 25 should be taken as evidence for all purposes,

even though some of the documents appear to have been marked

subject to proof. The documents produced by the plaintiffs include

several agricultural registers in which the name of the plaintiffs' had

been entered as the landlords without specifying the name of anyone

as "ande" cultivators. Documents marked as P14 to P25 are receipts

produced in proof of the payment of acreage tax. Several other

important documents produced in proof of the plaintiffs' claim are P5

to P8 which demonstrate the mode of payment made to the defendant

namely as wages for cultivating the field in question. P5 to P8 clearly

indicate the nature of the work and the capacity in which the

defendant rendered his services. Even though the defendant had

suggested that his signature had been obtained improperly on P5 to P8

3

the learned district judge had rightly rejected the suggestion. As has

been observed by the trial judge the failure on the part of the

defendant to complain to anyone in authority as regards the exercise

of duress in obtaining his signature further weakens his case.

Even though an application has been made by the 1 st plaintiff, to the

agricultural services district office in order to have the subject matter

released in terms of section 2 of the Agricultural Services Act, it was

subsequently dismissed upon being withdrawn by the 1 st plaintiff.

Therefore, in my opinion the learned district judge's conclusion

regarding the failure to prove duress is quite rational.

In any event the defendant had been at a tremendous disadvantage in

establishing his version as he had not specifically denied the several

averments in the plaint. The authorities cited by the learned counsel

for the defendant are applicable in respect of a failure of the plaintiff to

file a replication to controvert a counter claim made in the answer and

not when the defendant fails to comply section 75 of the Civil

Procedure Code.

In the circumstances, I am not inclined to think that the appeal

preferred by the defendant-appellant challenging the propriety of the

..J ....... o U'l U'l '<I"

<U i Q) c 2 ::J ~ U o

t:.. .... <1' ....... N CD N j

4

•

judgment merits consideration. As such, it is my considered view that

the learned district judge has rightly concluded that the plaintiffs' are

entitled to judgment.

For the above reasons the judgment appealed against is affirmed and

the appeal dismissed without costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

NTj-

5