==== BLOCKS ==== 

..

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C A.Appeal No. 1031/99(F)

DC.Colombo 12580/MR

State Bank of India, No. 16, Sir Baron Jayatillake

Mawatha, Colombo 1.

PLAINTIFF

Vs

D.P. Piyatissa No. 194, Havelock Road,

Colombo 5.

G.B. Fernando No. 80-3/1, Dewala Road,

Nugegoda.

Mrs. Trixie Piyatissa

No. 5, Pathiba Road,

Colombo 5. (Substituted in place of the~

Late D.I. Piyatissa)

D.P. Piyatissa No. 194, Havelock Road,

Colombo 5. (Substituted in place of the

Late J.W. Piyatissa)

DEFENDANTS

AND

Mrs. Trixie Piyatissa

No. 5, Pathiba Road,

Colombo 5. (Substituted in place of

Late D.I. Piyatissa)

D.P. Piyatissa No. 194, Havelock Road,

Colombo 5. (Substituted in place of the

Late J.W. Piyatissa) DEFENDANT-APPELLANTS

Vs. State Bank of India, No. 16, Sir Baron Jayatillake

Mawatha, Colombo 1. PLAINTIFF-RESPONDENT

Before: A W A Salam, J and Sunil Rajapaksa, J

Counsel: Prasanna Jayawardena Pc with Milinda Jayathilaka for the plaintiff-resoindent. defendant-appellants absent and unrepresented.

Argued on: 14.03.2013

Decided on: 18.03.2013

~tate Bank of India ("Plaintiff") filed

'action inter alia to recover monies due

from the defendants and substituted-defendants

upon a Written Guarantee which was produced at

the trial marked P7 and alleged to have been

executed by the 1st and 2nd defendants and two

others namely D. I. Piyatissa and J. W. Piyatissa

who are presently deceased.

Incidentally, under the Provisions of S: 14A of

the Civil Procedure Code, 3rd and 4th

Substituted defendants were appointed 1n place

of the late D.I. Piyatissa and J.W. Piyatissa.

The plaintiff's Case was that the 1st, 2~

defendants, the late D.I. Piyatissa and J.W.

Piyatissa were Directors of the Company called

"M/S PIERGLOBE LIMITED". The said company was a

Customer and constituent of the plaintiff Bank . ..,

"M/S PIERGLOBE LIMITED" obtained Banking

Facilities amounting to U.S. Dollars 442,382/18,

the re-payment of which was guaranteed by the

1st, 2nd defendants and late D. I. Piyatissa and

J.W. Piyatissa.

...

As has been submitted by the learned President's

Counsel, Section l4A of the Civil Procedure

Code, permits a plaintiff to make an application

to Court for the substitution of the legal

representatives of a deceased person for the

purposes of filing an action. Applications have

been made to the District Court of Colombo in

Case Nos. 4489/CGM and 4488/CGM for

substitution. Consequently, the applications

were allowed by court, substituting the 3rd

defendant ln place of the deceased D. I.

Piyatissa and the 4th defendant in place of the

deceased J.W. Piyatissa. Therefore, the

inclusion of the names of the 3rd and 4th~

defendants has been duly made and no objection

can now be taken up against the same.

As a matter of fact the plaintiff has sent

letters of demand to the lst, 2nd, 3rd and 4th

defendants demanding payment of a sum of U. S.

..

Dollars 442,382/18 due upon the Guarantee.

The plaintiff Bank has established with cogent

evidence that that the amount of money claimed

by it, is due from PIERGLOBE LIMITED. The

Statements of Account marked at the trial and

the Bills of Exchange marked 'PlO' and 'P12' and

the Trust Receipt marked 'P14' clearly show

that, these mon1es were lent and advanced to

PIERGLOBE LIMITED and that, PIERGLOBE LIMITED

has failed to discharge its obligation in

repay1ng the mon1es due to the plaintiff Bank.

As was urged at the hearing of the appeal by the~

plaintiff, the correspondence 1n the letters

marked at the trial shows that, PIERGLOBE

LIMITED had acknowledged the liability. Besides,

the defendants 1n their evidence have not

disputed that the mon1es claimed by the

plaintiff are due to the plaintiff Bank from

..

PIERGLOBE LIMITED.

Further, the plaintiff Bank has established that

the lst and 2nd defendants and the late D. I.

Piyatissa and the late J. W. Piyatissa executed

the Guarantee marked 'P7.'

In any event, the defendant did not dispute the

fact that, the Guarantee was executed by the 1st

and 2nd defendants and D.I. Piyatissa and the

late J.W.Piyatissa. The guarantee produced

at the trial, undoubtedly constitutes a joint

and several Guarantee. Thus, it is clear that

under and in terms of the Guarantee, the 1st and

2nd defendants and the late D. I. Piyatissa and

J.W. Piyatissa were jointly and severally liable

to pay a sum of U.S. Dollars 442,382/18 claimed

in this action.

The orders marked 'P32' and 'P33' permitting the

~

•

substitution of the 3rct and 4th defendants were

not canvassed. Hence, ln as much as the 1st and

2nd defendants are jointly and severally liable

to repay the monies claimed by the plaintiff,

similarly, the 3rd and 4th defendants are also

liable to repay the same ln the like manner and

degree of responsibility, as the duly appointed

Legal Representatives of the late D.I. Piyatissa

and J.W. Piyatissa from and out of the estate of

the deceased.

In the petition of appeal the defendants claim

that, the plaintiff Bank is not entitled to

recover the monies due in U. S. Dollars. It is ...

worthy of being noted that it is established law

that any plaintiff is entitled to pray for the

recovery of the monies due in foreign currency

if the Contract between the plaintiff and the

defendant was ln foreign currency, as it had

taken place in this case.

..

In THE CEMENTATION COMPANY (OVERSEAS) LIMITED

VS. HOTEL INTERNATIONAL LIMITED [1986 1 SLR

262], it was laid down by the Supreme Court

that, where a contract is entered into for the

payment of monies in foreign currency, a party

lS entitled to pray for the recovery of the dues

1n foreign currency.

As far as the instant case lS concerned, the

fact that the contract between the plaintiff and

the defendants was for the repayment of the

monies due in U. S. Dollars, it is manifest on

the face of the guarantee that the re-payment.,

needs to be in the same currency. Thus, there

can be no dispute as to the entitlement of the

plaintiff to seek the recovery of the money due

from the defendants in US Dollars.

In the circumstances, the argument advanced by

..

•

the defendant that payment ln U.S.

cannot be sought does not appear

Dollars

to be

sustainable, by reason of the legal position

that under and in terms of the Exchange Control

Act and the Monetary Law Act (Section 35(1) and

(2) of the Exchange Control Act No. 24 of 1953,

as amended) payment of monies due ln foreign

currency under and ln terms of judgements

entered by Courts, are explicitly permitted. The

Law provides for the defendant to pay the

decreed sum in foreign currency into the Court

and in turn authorizes the plaintiff to draw the

monles so deposited in foreign currency with the

sanction of the Central Bank. This position is~

strengthened by S: 4(1) of the Monetary Law Act

No. 58 of 1949 which recognizes that, by express

agreement an obligation can be lawfully incurred

to pay monies in foreign currency. In terms of

the Provisions of Section S:4(2) the Monetary

Law Act in the event of such an obligation to

•

The submission that, the plaintiff Bank has not

proved that, the sums are payable on the Import

Bills marked 'PlO' and 'P12' appears on its face

to be incorrect as, PIERGLOBE LIMITED has signed

and accepted these two Import Bills.

As regards the allegation that the letters of

demand had not reached the defendants, it is

appropriate to advert to the principle that the

common course of business would have been

followed as set out in Illustration (e) to S:114

of the Evidence Ordinance. The 1st defendant's

attempt to dispute the receipt of the letter of

demand claiming that he was ln Japan at that~

time is rendered futile as, he had in any event

returned to Sri Lanka a few weeks after the

letter of demand was sent. Thus it appears that

ln any event the letter would have got into his

hands as it was properly addressed.

\ • •

The Evidence ln this case points to the fact

that that the principal debtor namely the

company made Part Payments up to lOth December

1987. Then, the plaintiff's Claim could have

become prescribed only after the expiry of six

years from date of last payment l.e. lOth

December 1987. As the action has been instituted

ln September 1992, it is not open to the

defendants to maintain that the cause of action

of the plaintiff was prescribed.

The final point that arises for consideration is

whether the plaintiff could have maintained the

action against the defendants since the company...,

which availed of the banking facility was in

liquidation. Since the guarantee marked 'P7'

clearly states that, the defendants are liable

thereunder notwithstanding any disability on the

part of PIERGLOBE LIMITED -Vide: Clauses [ 4] ,

[12] and of the Guarantee marked 'P7', this

•

argument too lS not worthy of any merits. As

matter of fact, Clauses [ 12] and [ 15] of the

guarantee 'P7' unambiguously lmposes the

liability on the defendants when it refer to the

obligation to re-pay despite any liquidation of

PIERGLOBE LIMITED.

Clause [ 21] of the Guarantee makes the

defendants liable as principal debtors and in

the light of the said clause too the winding up

process of the relevant company cannot have any

bearing on the defence raised as to disclaim

liability.

The plaintiff Bank had proved its case as set

out ln the Plaint and in Issue Nos. [ 1] to [ 7]

raised by the plaintiff. For these reasons, the

Learned District Judge cannot be faulted for

having entered judgement for the plaintiff as

prayed for in the Plaint.

Therefore, none of the matters urged ln the

petition of appeal by the appellant warrant the

intervention of this Court in the exercise of

appellate jurisdiction to reverse the impugned

judgment. For the above reasons, I dismiss the

petition of appeal and affirm the judgment of

the trial judge subject to costs.

A W A Salam, J

Sunil Rajapaksa, J

I agree

NR/-

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Judge of the Court of Appeal