==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 1007/2007 (Writ)

N. Vaitilingam & Company Limited

No. 70, K. Cyril C. Perera Mawatha,

Colombo 01300.

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. M. Warusavitharana

The Commissioner of Provincial Revenl'e

Western Provincial Council

No. 76 1/1, Duminda Building

Galle Road, Colombo 00400

lA. L.P Thilakarathna

The Commissioner of Provincial Revenue

Western Provincial Council

No. 76 1/1, Duminda Building

Galle Road, Colombo 00400

lAA. U. P. G. Ududeniya

The Commissioner of Provincial Revenue

Department of Revenue

Western Provincial Council

No. 660, Galle Road,

Colombo 00300

lB. G. A. N. Jayantha

The Commissioner of Provincial Revenue

Department of Revenue

Western Provincial Council

No. 660, Galle Road,

Colombo 0030.

1

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONEATNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J. &

H. N. J. Perera J.

2. The Western Provincial Council

Independence Square,

Colombo 00700.

RESPONDENTS

M. A. Sumanthiran with Javad Mansoor for the Petitoner

Janak de Silva D.S.G., for the Respondents

05.04.2013

07.08.2013

2

The Petitioner N. Vaitilingam & Company Limited, as pleaded in the

petition carries on the business of manufacture and distribution of (river' brand

galvanized roofing sheets etc. and also engage in the sale of imported and locally

purchased items of hardware. In paragraph 4 of the petition it is pleaded that

Petitioner Company pays value added tax to the Inland Revenue Department on

manufactured items and are liable to pay Turn Over Tax to the Western Provincial

Council on the sale of imported and locally purchased hardware items. In

3

paragraph 7 of the petition, position of the Petitioner in this application is stated

as follows:

(i) Due to an oversight the Petitioner paid the 1st Respondent turnover tax

for the quarter commencing 30th June 2002, 30th September 2002, 31

st

December 2002, 31st March 2003, 30th June 2003, 30th September 2003,

31st December 2003, 31st March 2004, 30th June 2004, 30th SepteHlber

2004, 31st December 2004, 31st March 2005, 30th June 2005 and ending

30th September 2005;

(ii) Due to an oversight the Petitioner paid turnover tax of 1% in respect of

the turnover attributable to the sale of manufactured (i) galvanized

roofing sheets and (ii) zinc aluminium/colour coated roofing sheets;

(iii) In the circumstances, the Petitioner by an oversight included turnover

arising from manufacturing to its turnover from the sale of other

imported and locally purchased goods;

(iv) Due to the aforesaid error, the Petitioner paid the Commissioner of

Revenue of the Western Provincial Council an aggregate sum of Rupees

Eighteen Million Four Hundred and Eighty Nine Thousand and Three

Hundred and Four (Rs. 18,489,304.00) - as certified by the Petitioner's

Auditors (Chartered Accountants) - for the quarters set out above.

Petitioner urge that the sum paid by the Petitioner to the Commissioner of

Revenue of the Western Provincial Council was not legally due to the said

Commissioner. Thereafter the Petitioner having realized the erroneously making

4

such payment, made representation to the authorities concerned by P4 (letter

personally given to Mr. Tudor, Senior Assessor). In the petition it is more or less

pleaded that the Senior Assessor Mr. Tudor agreed to the position of the

Petitioner Company i.e Petitioner Company is a manufacturer (as in paragraph

4(ii)) and accepted that the refund for the preceding 3 years commencing 2003

January to September 2005 would be allowed. The said Senior Assessor assured

the Petitioner that a balance sum to be refunded in a sum of rupees Sixteen

Million Three Hundred and Three Thousand Five Hundred and Fifty. Balance due

to be set off against the Turner over Tax payable from the quarter ended

31.3.2006. As such approval for same would be obtained.

However in this application Petitioner Company emphasize that the

only basis of refusal to refund or set off the above taxes by the Respondents is on

the basis that there is no right to make a refund of the over paid taxes, in law.

Petitioner argues that in terms of Section 101 of the Financial Statute

of the Western Province, provides for the refund of payments made as Turnover

Tax. By P14 & P35 the position of the Respondents are stated. The main relief

sought are a Writ of Certiorari to quash the order of the 1st Respondent in

document P35, and a Writ of Mandamus to refund the amounts stated above or

to set off the same against Petitioner's Turnover Tax liability commencing from

i i , j , I

5

the quarter ended on 31st December 2005 as in sub paragraph (iii) of the prayer to

the petition. There has been lot of correspondence between the parties, but the

Respondents seems to have denied all attempts of the Petitioner Company to get

relief in terms of the prayer to the petition.

In the submission made to this court the Petitioner Company very

emphatically state that the Company is involved in two principal activities. i.e,

(a) Manufacturer and Distributor

(b) Purchase for sale both imported and local hardware items.

As regards items manufactured, value added tax be paid to the Inland

Revenue Department, but not liable to pay Turnover tax. On the sale of

imported/local items liable to pay Turnover Tax to the Western Provincial Council.

This is an aspect stressed and argued in this court by learned Counse! for

Petitioner. On the above basis this court has been invited to consider the 13

th

Amendment to the Constitution and the Provincial Council list of same which

refer to Turnover Tax on wholesale/retail sales within the Province. In explaining

further Section 3(1) of the Financial Statute of the Western Province Act No.6 of

1990 is mentioned and the Petitioner states Turnover Tax cannot be charged or

recovered from a manufacturer. Petitioner is a manufacturer. The Petitioner is a

manufacturer regarding the items as in paragraph 4(i) of the petition. It is noted

I

\

\

I ,

t rf ! I !

, I lf t i r I I

6

that paragraphs 4(i} and 4(ii} refer to the business activities of the Petitioner

Company both as manufacturer and wholesale/retail dealer.

The Respondents in this application have filed two sets of objections

(objection dated 12.7.2008 and Amended objections of 29.6.2011). However the

Petitioner has in the counter affidavit of October 2011 objected to the amended

objections after the close of pleadings and state that it should not be admitted.

Whatever it may be, the counter affidavit of Petitioner has answered the

amended counter objections of the Respondents. In the objections it is pleaded

inter alia that the statements in the relevant Department file do not reflect the

statements of the Senior Assessor Mr. Tudor, and that the said Mr. Tudor expired

on 25.1.2007. It is further pleaded that the said Mr. Tudor did not have the

authority to make representations or give any assurance in favour of the

Petitioner Company.

In the amended objections of the Respondents it is pleaded inter alia

that the Respondents are unaware that value added tax had been paid tv the

Inland Revenue Department. Further it is pleaded that Petitioner had identified

his business as General Hardware Merchants and Importers. As such Petitioner is

estopped from identifying itself as a 'manufacturer'. (vide Rl- R4). Another point

raised in the objections is that turnover of the Petitioner consists of turnover of

7

the head office and the factories. Petitioner had paid turnover of the head office

and not from the factories and the Audit Financial Statements of the Petitioner

marked R42 to R45 the turnover of the Head Office of the Petitioner is not

identified as a manufacturing turnover. As a matter of law the Respondents

pleads in the Amended Objections:

(a) The Petitioner is guilty of unmeritorious conduct in that it has unilaterally

set-off the amount it is claiming as over payment for the years 2002/03,

2003/04 and 2004/05 in these proceedings from the actual amount of

turnover tax it has to pay for the period commencing from the quarter

ending on 31.12.2005 up to 31.03.2009. Such a course of action is not

available to the Petitioner in law or in fact since set-off cannot be set up

against the State/an arm of the State/a State agency and/or the issue is

sub-judice as it forms the subject matter of this application.

(b) This application is misconceived in law,

(c) There has been undue delay on the part of the Petitioner in making this

application.

(d) The purported representations attributed to Senior Assessor Mr. H.D.A.J.

Tudor is ultra vires, in as much, he did not have the authority, statutory or

otherwise, to make the purported representations;

(e) This Court does not have the have jurisdiction to grant the relief claimed.

We have perused all the pleadings filed in this application and heard

oral submissions of learned counsel on either side. The material placed before

\ r , ,

8

this court no doubt indicate that the Petitioner was engaged in the business of

manufacturer within the meaning of Section 59 of the Turnover Tax Act No. 69 of

1981 and the Provincial Council Turnover Tax Act No. 25 of 1999, and also in the

wholesale and retail business. Nor can this court reject the position of the

Petitioner as regard the method of payment of taxes. i.e value added tax payable

on manufactured items to the Inland Revenue Department and liable to pay

Turnover Tax to the Provincial Council on wholesale/retail sales of imported and

local items. The crux of the matter is whether the Plaintiff Company is entitled to

the refund of over paid taxes or to set off the overpaid taxes in the manner

pleaded and urged on behalf of the Plaintiff Company.

It cannot be said that the Financial Statute of the Western Provincial

Council No.6 of 1990 makes no provision to refund payments. Section 101 (2) to

Section 101(4) reads thus:

(2) If it is proved to the satisfaction of the Commissioner by claim duly made in

writing within three years after the end of a quarter that any persor' has

paid turnover tax in excess of the amount with which he was properly

chargeable for that quarter, such person shall be entitled to have refunded

the amount so paid in excess.

(3) Provided that nothing in this section shall operate to extend or reduce any

time limit for appeal or repayment specified in any other section or to

9

validate any objection or appeal which is otherwise invalid or to authorize

the revision of any matter which has become finaland conclusive.

{4} Where it is proved to the satisfaction of the Commissioner by claim made in

writing that any person has paid any sum referred to in subsection {1} of

section 12 which is in excess of the sum which he should have paid if such

sum were calculated in accordance with the provisions of subsection {2} of

that section, such person shall be entitled to have refunded the amou.,t so

paid in excess, if such claim is made within three years of the end of the

quarter in which the sum referred to in the aforesaid subsection {1} was

paid.

The above sections contemplate a refund of Turnover Tax paid in

excess. Therefore on a legal basis I would agree that a refund of tax could be

made. Petitioner's point seems to be that excess was paid owing to an incorrect

understanding of the term 'business' in Section 106 of the said Statute. Section

3{2} of the Act excludes sales by a manufacturer and as such not chargeable with

Turnover Tax. Petitioner Company state it paid an excess of turnover tax by

including turnover from its manufacturing activity on which value added tax was

duly paid. In support of payment to the Inland Revenue Department document P6

had been produced. P6 not denied by Respondent {paragraph 8 of Petition of the

Petitioner admitted by Respondent in their objections}. However the vital

paragraph 7 of the petition of the Petitioner denied by the Respondents. Position

10

of the Respondents is that turnover of the Petitioner consists of the turnover of

the Head Office and the factories, and as such Petitioner had paid turnover tax of

the head office and that of the factories not calculated. In this regard

Respondents have produced R42 to R45 to prove the above point. Respondent

reply supported by R42 to R45 had been explained by the Petitioner in paragraph

11 of the counter affidavit of Mr. Edmond, Financial Manager of Petitioner

Company.

It is stated therein that these inaccuracies had been brought to the

notice of the Respondent and subsequently rectified. It is very unfortunate that

court is not in a position to go into that aspect since it remains an important

disputed facts. Nor can this court decide Writ Application on a balance of

probability. The Respondents have given the Petitioner enough opportunities to

place their case, but it appear to dispute the position of the Petitioners, as stated

above. Another area of disputed facts are again pleaded by the Petitioner in their

own petition in paragraph 8(iii), with reference to letter Pl0 pertaining to under

payment of Rs. 44,417/00 by the Petitioner. Petitioner rejects Pl0 but court

cannot be so well equipped to rule on this aspect in a review procedure.

11

Petitioner complains of excess payments. The Respondents deny

paragraph 7 of the petition where the Petitioner seek to explain their mistake. In

the pleadings of the Petitioner under payments, as above is stated (PiO) and

Petitioner rejects such position. Having also considered the role of Mr. Tudor the

Senior Assessor, it is unfortunate that a record of what transpired in those

discussion are only made available by the Petitioner. Respondents reject any

assurances given by Mr. Tudor, as stated by the Respondents he had no right to

do so. It is possible to argue that there was some expectation which could be

relied upon by the Petitioner. However this court cannot conclude whether

expectation or assurance given by Mr. Tudor amounts to a legitimate expectation,

in the absence of proper official records being placed before court.

This court observes that vital facts relied upon by the Petit[Jner

Company are disputed i.e excess payment of tax though specifically not denied by

Respondents, but at least by implication Respondents reject Petitioner's

contention. Further when inaccuracies and errors are almost admitted by the

Petitioner relief cannot be granted. This court is reluctant to grant the

discretionary remedy available by way of writ jurisdiction.

I would refer to the following case law:

\

\

,~ t i

12

Thajudeen Vs. Sri Lanka Tea Board & Another 181(2) SLR 471..

Where the major facts are-in dispute and the legal result of the facts is subject to controversy

and it is necessary that the questions should be canvassed in a suit where parties would have

ample opportunity of examining the witnesses so that the Court would be better able to judge

which version is correct, a writ will not issue.

Mandamus is pre-eminently a discretionary remedy. It is an extraordinary, residuary and

suppletory remedy to be granted only when there is no other means of obtaining justice. Even

though all other requirements for securing the remedy have been satisfied by the applicant, the

court will decline to exercise its discretion in his favour if a specific alternative remedy like a

regular action equally convenient, beneficial and effective is available.

Public Interest Law Foundation Vs. Central Environment Authority 2001(3) SLR

330

The Petitioner sought a Writ of Certiorari to quash the decision of the Central Environmental

Authority (C.E.A) approving the construction of the Southern Expressway" on the basis that (i)

there was a failure to analyse or consider reasonable and environmentally friendly alternatives.

(ii) the Environmental Impact Assessment Report (EIA) does not provide proper intelligible and

adequate reasons for the rejection of alternatives to the Project.

Held:

(i) By a grant of certiorari the Court does not and cannot impose its own decisions. It

simply quashes the original decision.

(ii) The Court is ill equipped to form an opinion on environmental matters they being

best left to people who have specialized knowledge and skills in such affairs. Courts

may decline to exercise review because it is felt that the manner is not justifiable.

II

I

13

(iii) Judicial review is concerned not with the decision but with the decision making

process.

Per Gunawardena, J.

lilt is worth observing that the review procedure is not well suited to the determination

of disputed facts ... "

(iv) Court is not in a position to choose between competing schemes.

(v) Decision making is an important aspect of the work entrusted to the CEA Any

person endowed with decision making powers will appreciate that discretion is an

aid to the exercise of these powers. The C.E.A too is left free to make a choice

among possible courses of action.

The letters P14 and P35 attempts to convey the decision of the

Respondents. Having taken both documents (subject to the view expressed on a

legal basis) in the context of the problem in hand, this court does not wish to

interfere more particularly as regards document P35. Whether payments maLe by

the Petitioner is an excess payment of tax or whether tax due are underpaid as

claimed by the Respondents in letter Pl0 remains disputed facts.

As regards the Writ of Mandamus, we refer to the following authority.

In P. K. Banerjee Vs. L. T. Symond AIR (1947) Cal 307 ...

Whether the facts show the existence of any or all prerequisites to the granting of the writ is a

question of law in each case to be decided not in any rigid or technical view of the question but

according to a sound and reasonable interpretation. The court will not grant a Mandamus to

, l r If

14

enforce a right, not of a legal but of a purely equitable nature however extreme the

inconvenience to which the applicant might be put.

A Mandamus will not be granted to correct an erroneous decision as

to fact 2 CLW 14; 10 Times 65; 12 Law Rec 176. The grant of Mandamus is a

matter for the discretion of the court. It is not a writ of right and is not issued as a

matter of course. 1 CLW 306.

In all the above circumstances we are not inclined to interfere with

the decision of the Respondents. As such this court is not in a position to grant

relief to the Petitioner Company.

Application dismissed without costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

H. N. J. Perera J.

I agree,

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

I' Ii I! , II

~ l I t I

I (