==== BLOCKS ==== 

I ..

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA 197/2010

Geekiyanage Sunil Padmasiri de Silva

Accused-Appellant

Vs The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Complainant Respondent

HC Negombo 272/2006

Before

Counsel

Argued on Decided on

Sisira J de Abrew J & PWDC J ayathilakeJ

Anil Silva President's Counsel for the accused appellant

Sarath Jayamanne DSG for the Respondent.

11.3.2013 and 12.3.2006 9.5.2013

Sisira J de Abrew J.

The accused appellant in this case was convicted for kidnapping a girl named

Weerasinghege Pradeepa Nilmini who was under sixteen years of age and raping

her. He was, on the first count, sentenced to a term of two years rigorous

imprisonment (RI) and to pay a fine of Rs.2,500/- carrying a default sentence of

three months simple imprisonment. On the 2nd count, he was sentenced to a term of

ten years RI, to pay a fine of Rs.5000/- carrying a default sentence of six months

simple imprisonment and to pay a sum of Rs.30,000/- as compensation to the

Prosecutrix carrying a default sentence of one year RI. The learned trial Judge

directed that two terms of imprisonment imposed on two counts (two years RI and

2

ten years RI) should run consecutively. Facts of this case may be briefly

summarized as follows: Susantha Jayalath who is the mother of the prosecutrix

around 3.30 p.m. dropped her daughter (the prosecutrix) at her English tuition class

which was close to the communication center run by the accused appellant. Before

commencement of the tuition class, the accused appellant came and told the

prosecutrix that her father wanted her to come home for the purpose of preparing

decoction for father's ailment. She thereafter got into the van of the accused of the

accused appellant and he without taking her to her house took her to his house

which was about fifteen meters away from her house. Thereafter he removed her

clothes and committed the act of sexual intercourse on her. At this time her mother

came and knocked on the door of the house of the accused appellant. Thereafter he

opened the rear door of the house, allowed her to go to the back yard and helped

her to jump over the wall. She jumped to the neighbouring land of the accused

appellant, came to the road and met her mother who was waiting near the house of

the accused appellant. This was the summary of the evidence of the prosecutrix.

Mother of the prosecutrix says around 3.30.p.m. she went to the compound

of the accused appellant and demanded that door be opened. She also demanded

the accused appellant to release her daughter. She says even windows were closed.

She found her daughter's bag containing books inside the van of the accused

appellant. Little later she met her daughter who said that the accused appellant

brought her to the house. Before she met her daughter she had given a telephone

call to the police station and as a result of this telephone call two police officers

arrived at the scene. The accused at this stage came from the rear side of the house.

The accused appellant too gave evidence. He says that whilst he was

passing the tuition class of the prosecutrix in his van, she signaled her to stop the

van and requested him to drop her at the computer class. He however told her that

he had to first get back home as it was necessary for him to take hot water and

,_ 3

clothes for his son who was in the hospital. He thereafter drove his van taking the

prosecutrix in his van and stopped it in his compound. He went inside the house to

bring hot water and clothes for his son whilst she was waiting in the van. When he

was pouring hot water to the hot water flask he heard the victim shouting in the

following language: "Sunil aiya, mother is coming." He thereafter saw the girl

jumping over his wall which was 4 Yz feet high. When he opened the door, he

found the mother of the girl with two police officers at the door step.

Learned PC for the accused appellant contended that the accused appellant

should have been acquitted on his evidence. I now advert to this question. The

accused appellant in his evidence admitted that he took the prosecutrix in his van

to his compound. His idea was to drop her at the computer class. When he was at

home he heard the prosecutrix saying "Sunil aiya, mother is coming." He also saw

her jumping over his wall. He admits her mother knocking on the door. When he

opened the door he saw the mother with two police officers. Under these

circumstances, if he brought the prosecutrix for the purpose of dropping her at the

computer class on her request, should not he have disclosed this purpose to the

mother. Normal reaction of a human being under these circumstances was to

disclose the purpose for which he brought the prosecutrix home. He must promptly

disclose it. But there is no evidence to suggest that he disclosed this purpose to the

mother. I am therefore unable to accept his evidence. In my view his evidence does

not satisfy the test of probability. If he did not come home with the prosecutrix this

incident would not have taken place. Why did he come home in that afternoon?

That was to take hot water and clothes to his son who was in the hospital. When

one considers the allegation levelled against him this reason was important and he

could not forget it. But he had not stated this reason in his statement made to the

police. This was brought to the notice of the trial court by way of an omission. This

omission in my view is a vital omission. Therefore the reason for coming home

.

' 4

with the prosecutrix stated in his evidence appears to be an afterthought. When I

consider these mattes, the evidence of the accused that he did not take her inside

the house and did not commit the sexual intercourse on her and that he brought her

home with the intention of dropping her at the computer class cannot be accepted

and is not capable of creating a reasonable doubt in the prosecution case. In my

view the learned trial judge was right when decided not to act on the evidence of

the accused appellant.

The distance between her house and the accused appellant's house was,

according to the evidence, only 15 meters. In between both houses was only a

petrol shed. Learned PC contended that the prosecutrix wanted to keep away from

the English tuition class and this was why she came with the accused appellant. If

this contention is true, I have to ask the question: would she come close to her

house taking the risk of being seen by her parents if she wanted to keep away from

the tuition class. I think not. I am therefore unable to agree with the said contention

of learned PC.

Learned PC next contended that Prosecution had not proved the penetration

and that therefore accused could not have been convicted for the offence of rape. I

now advert to this contention. According to the doctor there may or may not have

been penetration. The prosecutrix told her mother that nothing happened to her

although the accused appellant removed her clothes. I must note here that the

prosecutrix was, at this time, having guilty conscious as she came from the

neighbouring land of the accused appellant. She was expected to be at the tuition

class. Under these circumstances it was natural for her to say at the first instance

especially on the road that nothing happened to her. The prosecutrix, in her

evidence, says that the accused appellant kept his male organ near her vagina and

moved up and down. She says that she, at this time, felt pressure near her vagina

and she found his male organ inside her vagina. This was the evidence of the

' 5

prosecutrix. When I consider all these matters, I hold the view that the prosecution

had proved penetration beyond reasonable doubt. The fact that the prosecutrix was '

in the compound of the accused appellant and the fact that she jumped over the

wall of the accused appellant's land were even admitted by the accused. When I

consider the evidence led at the trial I feel that she had spoken the truth at the trial.

Therefore her evidence can be accepted even without corroboration. In a case of

rape the accused can be convicted for the offence of rape on the evidence of the

prosecutrix even without corroboration if she speaks the truth. I have earlier

pointed out that she had spoken the truth at the trial. This view is supported by the

judicial decision of Premasiri Vs The Queen 77 NLR 86 wherein the Court of

Criminal Appeal held thus: "In a charge of rape it is proper for a jury to convict on

uncorroborated evidence of the complainant only when such evidence is of such

character as to convince the jury that she is speaking the truth."

Leraned PC next contended that the offence of kidnapping had not been

proved as the accused appellant was going to drop the girl at a tuition class. But I

have earlier rejected his evidence. Therefore I am unable to accept the contention

of learned PC. In my view the learned trial judge was correct when he convicted

the accused appellant on both counts. There is no reason to interfere with the

judgment of the learned trial judge. For the above reasons I affirm the convictions

and the sentences of the accused appellant and dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

PWDC J ayathilake

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.