==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

CA 05/09

HC-Puttalam-184/05

Before

Counsel

A.H.M. Ruwan Sanjeewa

Accused Appellant

Vs.

The Attorney General

Respondent

Sisira J. de Abrew, J. (P/CA) &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J.

Neranjan Jayasinghe for the Accused

Appellant

Rohantha Abeysuriya, DSG for the

Attorney-General.

1

1 1 I Argued &

Decided on 04.03.2014 I Sisira de Abrew, J. (P/CA)

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused appellant in this case was convicted for raping

a woman named Chandani Adikari and was sentenced to a term

of 10 years Rigorous Imprisonment, to pay a fine of

Rs. 2,500/-and to pay a sum of Rs. 100,000/-as

compensation to the victim. Being aggrieved by the said

conviction and the sentence he has appealed to this court.

The facts of this case may be briefly summarized as

follows;

On the day of the incident the accused appellant carne to

the house of the victim and raped her on the floor of the

living area of the house. According to the medical

evidence, the victim was suffering from a decease called

Mongolism. But the learned trial judge has observed that

2

I

1

the victim was in a position to understand the questions

and answer. Vide page 24 of the appeal brief. Although the

victim says that she was raped she, under cross

examination, at page 37, 38 and 39, admi t ted that this

incident did not take place under the hands of the accused

appellant. This means she had admitted that the accused

appellant did not commit sexual intercourse on her. She

has further admitted that what she was telling in court is

what her farther told her secretly. When we consider the

evidence, we feel that there is a grave reasonable doubt

whether the accused appellant committed sexual intercourse

on her or not. There is also evidence that the victim's

farther had assaulted the accused appellant. In a case of

rape prosecution must prove the following ingredients

beyond the reasonable doubt.

1. Sexual intercourse was committed on the woman

2. The said sexual intercourse was committed by the

accused appellant

3

•f

t 1 i 3. The sexual intercourse was committed on her against

her will or without her consent

When we consider the evidence, it appears that the

ingredient No. 1 has not been proved by the prosecution

beyond reasonable doubt. We therefore hold that the

accused appellant should be acquitted on this ground alone.

The learned trial Judge failed to consider the above

matters.

The accused appellant in his evidence took up the defence

of alibi. His mother also gave evidence supporting the

fact that in the afternoon of the day of the alleged

incident her son was at home. The accused appellant in

his evidence has further admitted that he went to one of

his uncles place and he went with one Samantha. Learned

Trial Judge in his judgement has observed that the accused

appellant has not called the said uncle and Samantha. He

has further observed that the defence of alibi was

therefore not corroborated by the accused appellant. He

4

I , ,

observed that as a result of the failure on the part of the

accused appellant to corroborate his defence of alibi, the

prosecution case has been corroborated. We hold that this

is a clear misdirection in law. Further, when an accused

person takes up an alibi in a Criminal case, there is no

burden whatsoever on the accused appellant to prove his

defence of alibi. This view is supported by the judicial

decision in Banda Vs Attorney General 1999 3 SLR 168

wherein His Lordship Justice Jayasooriya held that "there

is no burden whatsoever by an accused who puts forward a

plea of alibi and the burden is always on prosecution to

establish beyond reasonable doubt that the accused was not

elsewhere but present at the time of the commission of

offence". The same principle was laid down in King Vs

Marshall 51 NLR Page 157 and the King Vs Fernando 48 NLR

451. In Pun chi Banda Vs State 76 NLR page 293 His Lordship

Justice G. P. A. de Silva observed that "when an alibi is

pleaded in defence, the burden of proof on the accused is

not similar to that in a case where the accused raises a

5

1

I i

•

mitigatory or exculpatory plea. Where the defence is that

of an alibi, the accused has no burden as such of

establishing any fact to any degree of probability".

When we consider the evidence led at the trial, we hold the

view that the prosecution has not proved its case beyond

reasonable doubt. We therefore set aside the conviction

and the sentence imposed on the accused appellant and

acquit him of the charge with which he was convicted.

Accused is acquitted.

Appeal allowed.

PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

LA/-

6