==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 304 12000 F D.C. Balapitiya No. 2401RE

Mohamed Bari, No. 20, Malwatta Road, Dehiwala.

Plaintiff

Vs.

Associated Hotel Company Ltd, No. 263, Galle Road,

Colombo 3.

Defendant AND

Mohamed Bari, No. 20, Malwatta Road, Dehiwala.

Plaintiff Petitioner

Associated Hotel Company Ltd, No. 263, Galle Road, Colombo 3.

Defendant Respondent

And Now Between

Mohamed Bari, No. 20, Malwatta Road, Dehiwala.

Plaintiff Petitioner-Appellant

,

BEFORE

COUNSEL

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

Vs

Associated Hotel Company Ltd, No. 263, Galle Road, Colombo 3.

Defendant Respondent-Respondent

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

Plaintiff Petitioner Appellant - Absent and

unrepresented

Defendant Respondent-Respondent- Absent

and unrepresented

25.02.2014

The present appeal has been preferred by the Plaintiff Petitioner-

Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant) from the order of the learned

District Judge of Balapitiya dated 06.06.2000.

The Appellant instituted an action against the Defendant Respondent-

Respondent in the District Court of Balapitiya seeking inter alia a declaration as

prayed for in prayer' a' of the plaint. On the date of trial the Appellant was absent

in Court. The Counsel for the Appellant had informed Court that he had no

instructions to appear and prosecute the case. Thereafter the learned trial Judge had

\

3

dismissed the action of the Appellant. Thereafter the Appellant had made an

application to vacate the said order of dismissal of the action. The Respondent had

filed a statement of objection to the said application. After an inquiry the learned

District judge has dismissed the said Application of the Appellant. This appeal is

against the said order.

I have carefully considered the impugned order of the learned District

Judge and the evidence adduced at the inquiry. When I consider the said evidence I

am of the view that the learned trial judge has come to a right conclusion after

evaluating the evidence led before court.

In the said circumstances I see no reason to interfere with the said

order of the learned District Judge dated 06.06.2000. Therefore I dismiss the

appeal of the Appellant without costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal