==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A 37411998 (F) D.C. Maravila 723/M

K. R. M. Harichchandra Mahageera Lunuwila.

PLAINTIFF

Vs.

W. Antony F onseka Kolinjadiya West Wennappuwa.

DEFENDANT

AND

W. Antony Fonseka Kolinjadiya West Wennappuwa.

DEFENDANT -APPELLANT

Vs.

K. R. M. Harichchandra Mahageera Lunuwila.

PLAINTIFF -RESPONDENT

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERA TNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J.

Defendant-Appellant & Plaintiff-Respondent are absent and unrepresented.

22.05.2012

2

This appeal was listed in this court on more than five occasions

but parties were absent and unrepresented. Registrar of this court on each

occasion duly dispatched notices, and it appears that parties and their

registered Attorneys are no longer interested in this type of litigation.

However this court would proceed to deliver the judgment on the available

material.

The plaint filed in the original court was under chapter 53 of the

Civil Procedure Code (summary procedure on liquid claims). The case of the

Plaintiff-Respondent is that on a 'cash or bearer' cheque for Rs. 15,1001- of

3

the Defendant-Appellant was received by him and it was presented to the

Bank of Ceylon, Wennappuwa for payment and same was dishonoured and

returned to Plaintiff on 19.10.1989. The cheque had been issued by the

Defendant-Appellant from his Current Account No. 1248. Both parties had

several transactions according to the evidence led at the trial. The date

appearing on the cheque had been inserted by agreement of both parties.

There is a discrepancy in evidence as regards the date of presenting the

cheque by Plaintiff. However the Plaintiff has corrected his lapse and gives

the date as 2.5.1987. Defendant's position is that he paid the Plaintiff on the

amount due on the cheque on 25.6.1989 but there is no supporting or

documentary evidence to support that fact. Date of dishonour of cheque is

the same date of closing of Defendant's account at the bank. The bank Clerk

has given evidence and confirm that the cheque was presented to the bank on

18.10.1989.

I have perused the judgment of the leanred District Judge. The

Petition of Appeal does not give specific details of grounds of appeal. Only

general grounds are urged, such as failure of the trial Judge's evaluation of

evidence led etc.

4

The learned District Judge had rejected the Defendant's version

of the case. On a balance of probability Plaintiff's version is more probable.

This being a case under chapter 53 of the Civil Procedure Code, being

summary procedure on liquid claims the Defendant need to obtain leave of

court to enable him to defend the action. Trial Judge has however proceeded

with the trial by recording issues and admissions (Section 706 of the Code)

In all the above circumstances, I do not wish to interfere with

the Judgment of the learned District Judge. The judgment of the District

Judge dated 21.5.1998 is affirmed. Appeal dismissed with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

@7~ G~u-~

JUDGE OF THECOURT OF APPEAL