==== BLOCKS ==== 

j f I

J 1 I

n~ THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBILIC OF SRI LANKA.

I C~ 913/99(F)

i D;C. Colombo -16388/L

!

W.G.N.S. Ranaweera, No: 12, Sukastan Gardens,

Word Place,

Colombo 07.

Plaintiff

Vs.

S.K. Karunaratne, No: 43/5,

Ananda Rajakaruna Mawatha,

Colombo 10.

Defendant

And Now Between

W.G.N.S. Ranaweera,

No: 12, Sukastan Gardens,

Word Place, Colombo 07.

Plaintiff-Appellant

Vs.

S.K. Karunaratne, No: 43/5,

Ananda Rajakaruna Mawatha,

Colombo 10.

Defendant-Respondent

("/") .-I o N ai o c:i .-I

....J -(Xl (Xl ("/") 1.0 .-I

o ..c

E .2 o u

~ Cl

LL en en -("/") .-I en « u 1

i

fIIIII

II

(

fI!I

1 I

1 i I I I I I I I I I

Before : A.W.A. Salam, J. &

Sunil Rajapakshe, J.

Counsel : Ikram Mohamed PC with Shyama Fernando for the Plaintiff-Appellant and C.E. de Silva for the Defendant-Respondent.

Argued on : 13.03.2013

Written Submissions tendered on: 03.04.2013

Decided on : 10.09.2013 -

A.W.A. Salam, J.

This appeal relates to a judgment pronounced in an action

where the plaintiff sought a declaration of title to the subject

matter of the action and ejectment of the defendant who

claimed to be a tenant under the predecessor in title of the

plaintiff. The basis on which the plaintiff sought the ejectment

of the defendant is that the premises which is purported to be

under a contract of tenancy, is an unauthorized construction.

The learned district judge dismissed the plaintiff's action on

the basis that the allegation of the premises in question being

unauthorized had not been established. The present appeal

has been preferred by the plaintiff.

The learned President's counsel has submitted that the

dismissal of the action of the plaintiff is wrong as the plaintiff

has proved the assertions embodied in issues 1 and 2. Issue

Nb 1 is whether the plaintiff the owner of the subject matter of

the action by reason of the purchase made by him on deed No

Ji I! I m J..... 0 !N oi 0 ! 0 I.....

....J I-00 00 m 1.0 .....

I

0 .0

E 0 0 u iu 0 iLL

0"1 I0"1 -m ..... f0"1 « u

2 ,!I It

~

9536 dated 6 June 1990. As the defendant has admitted the

ownership of the plaintiff by pleading the benefit of a contract

of tenancy the learned district judge should have treated that

there is an admission of ownership as between the parties and

declared the plaintiff's the owner of the subject matter of the

action.

The next question that arises for consideration is whether the

defendant is entitled to plead the benefit of a contract of

tenancy inasmuch as the subject matter of the tenancy is said

to be an unauthorized construction. In the case of Malwattage

Vs Dharmawardena 1991 2 SLR 141, it was held by the

Supreme Court that where a building is unauthorized, it is

incapable of being let and the contract of letting is illegal and

such an illegality cannot give rise to any tenancy rights nor can

the Rent Act be used to cover up and rectify any illegality

under the Housing and Town Improvement Ordinance. The

Supreme Court in that case held that the illegal tenant is liable

to be ejected on account of the tenanted premises being

unauthorized.

Section 3 of the housing and town improvement Ordinance No

19 of 1915 reads as follows :-

3. This ordinance shall apply:-

(a) within the administrative limits of any Municipal Council,

Urban Councilor Town Council

(b) within any other limits in which it shall be declared to be in

m .-f 0 N en 0 ci .-f

...J -00 00 m 1.0 .-f

0 .D E

0 "0 u u d

u. en en -m .-f en « u 3

ti

Il! !

fitf! 1I

tt

fI

I

Ii iII" IIi ! !

}

force by resolution of the Senate and the House of

Representatives.

It is also relevant at this stage to reproduce Sections 5, and 15

(1) of the Housing and Town Improvement Ordinance. Section

5 of the said Ordinance reads as follows ...

No person shall erect or re-erect any building within the limits

administered by a local authority, except in accordance with

plans, drawings and specifications approved in writing by the

Chairman.

Section 15 (1) of the Housing and Town Improvement

Ordinance enacts as follows ..

No building constructed after the commencement of this

Ordinance shall be occupied, except by a caretaker, until the

Chairman has given a certificate that such building, as regards

construction, drainage and in all other respects in accordance

with law. The certificate issued under Section 15 (1) of the

said Ordinance is generally referred to as the "certificate of

conformity".

The main question that arises for determination in this appeal

is on whom the burden of proof lies when an allegation relating

to the occupation of an unauthorized building by a person

claiming to be a tenant is made. Section 101 of the Evidence

Ordinance enacts that whoever desires any court to give

judgment as to any legal right or liability dependent on the

existence of facts which he asserts, must prove that those

("(') .-! o N 0'\ o o .-!

...J 00-00 ("(') \D .-!

o ..0

E ..Q o u U o

0'\ 0'\ -("(') .-! 0'\ « u 4

facts exist. When a person is bound to prove the existence of

any fact, it is said that the burden of proof lies on that person.

Remarkably, there is no admission in this case that the

building in question is unauthorized. Issue No 3 has been

recorded at the instance of the plaintiff and it reads as

follows ...

3. Is the building bearing assessment No 43/5 an unauthorized

construction?

The above issue raised at the instance of the plaintiff clearly

shows that the plaintiff has taken upon the burden of

establishing the unauthorized nature of the building which the

defendant claims to occupy as a tenant. I am in total

agreement with the learned counsel for the defendant-

respondent that to succeed in an action of the present nature

the plaintiff must establish that the building of the premises in

suit had been constructed after the coming into operation of

the Housing and Town Improvement Ordinance No 19 of 1915.

The very reason that the said Ordinance had come into

operation on 1 - 2 -1915 renders any building constructed

before that date without a plan, drawing and specification

approved in writing by the Chairman of the local authority as

being an authorized construction. Hence, the plaintiff has to

establish that the premises in question has been constructed

contrary to Section 15 of the Housing and Town Improvement

....I -00 00 m U) M

o .D

E .Q 8 u c:i

en en -m M en « u

5 I I

r

f

f

Il !

II

Ordinance after 1 -2 -1915. the plaintiff has failed to

establish this aspect of the matter and therefore in my opinion,

the finding of the learned district judge as to the failure of the

plaintiff to establish the main ingredient that constitutes the

cause of action is faultless and calls for no intervention of this

court by way of exercising the appellate jurisdiction.

The learned Presidents's counsel has submitted that the

judgment of the learned district judge is bad in law for non-

compliance of the reqUirements contemplated under Section

187 of the Civil Procedure Code. Both the Supreme Court and

the Court of Appeal have time and again re-echoed the

necessity of complying with Section 187. Bare answers to

issues without reasons are not in compliance with the

requirements of Section 187 of the Civil Procedure Code. The

evidence relevant to each issue must be reviewed or

examined. No doubt, the. established law is that the judge

must evaluate and consider the totality of the evidence and

the mere narration of the summary of the evidence adduced at

the trial expressing the election to accept the version of a

particular party is no compliance of the requirements under

Section 187 of the CPC.

Oh a perusal of the judgment delivered by the learned district

judge, it is quite apparent that she has addressed her mind to

every issue raised at the trial and given cogent reasons for her

conclusion. Even though she has not reproduced the issues, as

m .-t 0 N 0'1 ~ 0 .-t

...J -00 00 m \D .-t

0 ..c

E 0 (5 u

~ 0 u::-

0'1 0'1 -m .-t 0'1 « u 6

i

fI

I

J \

1 1 I

1 I

~ i

i i I

it is normally done in the preparation of judgments by original

court judges, the learned district judge has answered each and

every issue in her judgment. In the circumstances, it is not

possible to attribute to the learned district judge non-

compliance of Section 187 of the Civil Procedure Code.

The finding of the learned district judge on the main issue

namely as to the building in question being unauthorized

construction or not, is quite consistent with the evidence led at

the trial. As such, I am not inclined to disturb the finding of the

learned district judge except to direct him that the plaintiff be

declared the owner of the subject matter of the action.

Consequently, this appeal should fail resulting in the impugned

judgment being affirmed subject to the plaintiff being declared

the owner of the subject matter as aforesaid.

ACcordingly, the appeal is dismissed without costs.

Sunil Rajapaksha, J.

I agree.

NR/-

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Judge of the Court of Appeal

en M o N 0) o a M

....J -00 00 en \D M

o .0

E .2 o u U a

0'1 0'1 -en M 0'1 « u

7 II

IJ(