==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Mohamed Saaly Abdul Asiz

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

C.A. 101/2012

H.C. Kurunegala 295/2006

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDEDON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDNET

Dr. Ranjith Fernando for the Accused-Appellant

Chethiya Goonesekera D.S.G. for the Complainant-Respondent

09.07.2014 & 11.07.2014

05.08.2014

1

2

GOONERATNE J.

The Appellant in this case was indicted under two counts in the High

Court of Kurunegala. Count (1) is for kidnapping a girl under 16 years of age.

Count (2) was in terms of Section 364 (2)(e) for committing rape of a girl below

16 years of age. Appellant was convicted on both counts and sentenced on

count No. (1) to 7 years rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs.1000/- which

carries a default sentence of 6 months rigorous imprisonment. On count No.

(2) sentenced to 20 years rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs.1000/- which

carries a default sentence of 6 months rigorous imprisonment.

When this appeal was taken up for hearing, an application was made

by learned counsel for Appellant in terms of Sections 329 and 351 of the Code

of Criminal Procedure Act. These sections empowers the Appellate Court to

call for further evidence or give a direction in that regard and refer to

supplementing powers of this court. On the above basis learned defence

counsel invited this court to direct that a DNA test be conducted, since it is the

position of learned counsel that the victim gave birth to a child and the

paternity would decide the charge based on count No. (2). Learned Deputy

Solicitor General who appeared for the Respondent had no objection for such

3

an application even though such an application had been made in the lower

court earlier, without success (vide para 4(i) of Petition of Appeal).

To state very briefly the facts of this case is that on the day in

question the victim (witness No. (1)) had gone to a nearby common well and

the Accused person who also lives in the vicinity had called her, the victim and

told her that his mother wanted to speak to her. Thereafter the victim had

gone to the house of the Accused. Once she entered the house the Accused

had closed the door and taken the victim to the kitchen and had sex with her

by force. The Accused had also threatened the victim and put her under fear of

death if the incident was disclosed to her parents. Subsequently to this

incident the victim had not complained to any person but in school she had

fainted on at least three occasions. Thereafter the parents had taken her to

hospital. The hospital authorizes had informed, after examination that the

victim was 5 months pregnant. The victim given birth to a child. The position of

the Accused-Appellant is a total denial of the incident and that he had been

falsely implicated due to reasons suggested by the Accused and a witness who

gave evidence on behalf of the Accused at the trial.

This court having considered the medical report and the views

expressed by the medical officer that the victim was of low intellect (no

!

! l

4

deformity) and had taken some time to learn the basic subjects to that of

other children of the same age and to test the truth of the position urged by

the Accused party and the time frame suggested in evidence to the date of

child birth and the alleged act of rape is mindful of the fact that the suggested

DNA test would (if done with necessary consent) divulge the correct position

as regards paternity. Learned Deputy Solicitor General too had no objection,

for such an application. In any event I would prefer to be guided by the

following case law on the subject.

In Vander Hultez Vs. A.G 1988(2) SLR 414 ...

Application by the prosecution was made to take evidence at the appeal stage to call

the Government Analyst to testify whether there was an envelope which contained five

packets of heroin whether the seals on the envelope were intact and whether where

originally 482 grammes of heroin had been recovered the subsequent finding of only 455

grammes could be attributed to dehydration.

Held:

Although S. 351(b) of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act confers a very wide discretion

on the Appeal Court in the matter of taking evidence at the appeal stage, still the Court will

not exercise it unless there are exceptional circumstances affecting the interests of justice.

The points on which clarification was being sought could easily have been clarified at the

trial stage by the prosecution. There were no special circumstances affecting the interests

of justice to justify taking of evidence in appeal.

5

Having perused the Judgment of this court, C.A 168/2009 decided on

27.10.2011 Judgment of Lecamwasam J. I would also cite the case of Ladd Vs.

Marshall ...

Article 139(2) of the constitution and section 351(b) of the Code of Criminal Procedure

Act No. 15 of 1979 provide for such a situation. Denning L.J. in Ladd V. Marshall (1954) 3

AFR 745 held thus "In order to justify the reception of fresh evidence or a new trial,

three conditions must be fulfilled: first, it must be shown that the evidence could not

have been obtained with reasonable diligence for use at the trial: second: evidence

must be such that, if given, it would probably have an important influence on the result

of the case, although it need not be decisive; third, the evidence must be such as is

presumably to be believed or, in other words, it must be apparently credible, although it

need not be incontrovertible".

If parties concerned consent to a DNA test and its results would

either way may have an important influence on the final outcome of this case

and be of a decisive nature. As pleaded in the Petition of Appeal at an early

stage such an application could not be pursued due to lack of consent, but

over the years and parties acquiring more maturity may change their minds?

On the other hand it is too early for this court to arrive at a conclusion prior to

hearing submissions from either party. If additional proof as above, in the

context of this case is forthcoming, such an application to conduct a DNA test

I ! I

1 I ! l I l I I

f ! ! I r II

I i i t [

" I! t t f !

f I ! !

~ r v f I I i ! I

6

should not be considered a bar in the best interest of justice. have also

fortified my views having perused the above Judgment of Justice

Lecamwasam.

In all the circumstances of this case we direct the Chief Magistrate,

Kurunegala to take all relevant and necessary steps to enable DNA test to be

performed, by having first obtained the consent of the persons, Accused,

Victim and or the child as advised by medical opinion. The learned Magistrate

is directed to comply with this Order expeditiously and report back to this

court within 3 months of receipt of this Order. Hon Attorney General will assist

the learned Magistrate in the performance of this task. Application allowed.

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL