==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CAlLA/Application No; 34612006

DClNeeombo No; 6055JL

In the matter of an Application for leave

to Appeal against the order dated

17.08.2006 in case No: 60551L in the

District Court ofNegombo.

And Now Between

1. Costa Patabendige Alex Ratne

Deepal Fernando, No: 138, Gammeda

Road, Dandugama,Ja-Ela.

1 st Defendant - Petitioner

Vs.

AmithaSandaseeliKellambi, No: 465,

Lady Margaret Road, South hall,

Middlesex, UB 1-2QD, United Kingdom.

Appearing by her Power of Attorney,

KurugamgeRohanaPerera, No: 501A,

National Houses, Keta~alamulla,

1

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

Dematagoda, Colombo - 9.

Plaintiff - Respondent

2. Bank of Ceylon, Head Office, Sir

Chithampalam A Gardener Mawatha,

Colombo.

Defendant Respondent

2

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J

Geeshan Rodrigo for the 1 st

Defendant - Petitioner.

Kushan De Alwis P.C. with

Ayendra Wickramasekara for the

2nd Defendant Respondent.

P.Nanayakkara with T. Alahakoon

for the Plaintiff - Respondent.

08.07.2014

DECIDED ON 27.11.2014

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake. J

Learned District Judge has made several orders in respect of the matter of

calling the Plaintiff to give evidence, subsequent to the leading of evidence of

the Power of Attorney Holder of the Plaintiff. The first order made in that

regard is the one dated 17.08.2006. In that order she has allows calling the

Plaintiff for her evidence to be led for a limited purpose as agreed by the

parties in the course of the trial. But after calling the Plaintiff to give evidence,

it appears that the counsel for the Plaintiff ignoring the order of the court has

led evidence of the Plaintiff without any limitation. It seems that not only the

learned Counsel, but also the learned District Judge had deviated from her own

order and had made subsequent orders allowing the Plaintiff to give evidence

in contrast to the agreement reached by the parties.

The learned District Judge has taken a much wider view by giving liberal

interpretation to law of evidence and civil Procedure in making those

subsequent orders. The learned District Judge has observed that in exploring

3

justice and in finding out the truth, the plaintiff is the right person and she is

now present in court in place of the power of attorney holder, so it is proper to

allow her to give evidence. She has gone to the extent that even the passport

of the plaintiff should be allowed to be marked even though it had not been

included in the list of documents. But this court observes that if the court

allows every kind of informal applications on that basis, provisions of law of

evidence and the civil procedure may come to a standstill.

Therefore this court is of the view that the plaintiff's evidence shall be allowed

only in accordance with the above mentioned first order of the learned District

Judge and learned District Judge has erroneously made subsequent orders.

As such, the court sets aside all orders made subsequent to the order dated

17.08.2006 and also orders to expunge the evidence of the Plaintiff led in the

trial.

Trial Proceedings Revised.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

4