==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A 452/2009 (Writ)

1.

W. P. Fernando Mananahena, Thalgaspe. Elpitiya.

PETITIONER

Vs.

The Divisional Secretary Divisional Secretariat, Elpitiya.

2. Ceylon Electricity Board, No.50, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 2.

3. Chief Engineer (Constructions), Southern Provincial Office, Lanka Electricity Board, No. 167, Matara Road,

Galle.

4. The Attorney General Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

RESPONDENTS

I

'

f

IIii!fi

2

BEFORE: Anil Gooneratne J.

COUNSEL: Mahinda Nanayakkara with A. Jayatilleke for Petitioner

Ashan Fernando S.C. for Respondents

ARGUED ON: 19.11.2012

DECIDED ON: 30.01.2013

GOONERA TNE J.

This is an application for a writ of certiorari/mandamus which has

arisen from laying of electric lines where the Electricity Board has taken steps to

install lamps to give electricity to the nearby houses of the Petitioner's land. The

issue is not a complex issue which does not seem to attract the writ jurisdiction of

this court. Petitioner seeks to quash documents marked P5 and P7. A writ of

mandamus is sought to implement the decision in document P4.

Petitioner had objected (paragraph 7 of Petition) to erection of lamp

posts across Petitioner land, since there is a shorter way to erect lamp post. Based

on the objections of the Petitioner an inquiry was held (P2). Subsequently erection

of lamp post had been approved by letter P4, and the Petitioner does not object to

j I I i l ! j 1

3

same. P4 very clearly states that electric lamp post would be laid not on the

boundary of the Petitioner's land.

This court observes that by the issuance of letters P5 & P7 the

decision in document P4 has not been altered. It is very clear that in the

implementation of the decision in document P4, it has become necessary to remove

and cut certain branches of trees leaning towards the electric lines. In fact letter P7

endorse the decision in letter P4. Petitioner has not disclosed proper acceptable

grounds to demonstrate that she is entitled to the writs that have been sought. The

official Respondents have always acted in a fair manner according to the material

contained in the objections of the Respondents.

I have considered the submissions of learned counsel for the Petitioner

and learned State Counsel. There is no merit in this application, and I am not

f

convinced of the argument submitted to court on behalf of the Petitioner. l

Respondents have never acted in excess of their authority, as per the material

available to court. Therefore I dismiss this application without costs.

Application dismissed.

M)J Go~~Q~> Lr' ~\

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

(