==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA. Appeal No: CA 521/98(F) D.C. Nuwara-eliya Case No.MS/1232

N. A. Amarapala "Nelum Sevana": No. 1/4, Hawa Eliya, Nuwara-eliya.

Defendant -Appellant - Vs- P. A. Leslie Kumara Perera, E. B. R. Swarna Edirisinghe, Both of "Supreme Marketing Company", No. 204, Galle Road, Ratmalana Presently of 38, Hill Street, Dehiwela. (Carrying on a business under the name and style of "Supreme Marketing Company")

Plaintiffs-Respondents

i

1 I I

i I I I ! ! ,! I

~

1

CA. Appeal No.521/98(F) D.C.Nuwara Eliya No.1232/MS

Before K.T.Chitrasiri, J

Counsel Defendant-Appellant is absent and unrepresented.

Upali de Almeida with R.J.V.Almeida for the Plaintiff-Respondent

Argued &

Decided on 28.08.2013

K.T.Chitrasiri,J.

Registrar of this Court has sent notices to the Defendant-Appellant on several occasions

informing him of listing of this appeal in this Court. Accordingly, when this matter was taken up

for argument on the last occasion namely 01.08.2013, Miss Kaushalya Wijesinghe Attorney-at-

Law had appeared for the appellant and then she had moved for a date on the ground of ill

health of her senior Counsel Sulari Gamage. However, neither the appellant nor his Attorney-at-

Law is present in Court today to prosecute this appeal. Therefore argument in this appeal is now

taken up in the absence of the appellant.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the order dated 23.07.1998. By that order, learned

District Judge of Nuwara Eliya directed the Defendant-Appellant to deposit Rs.300,OOO/- and

granted leave for him to appear and to defend the action in terms of Section 706 of the Civil

Procedure Code. In the circumstances, it is clear that the order that is being challenged is not a

decision which has the characteristics of a judgment as defined in Section 754(5) of the Civil

Procedure Code.

I

I

! Ji: ,1

1I

~ ,I t

I1II

r[l

tj

\I

IiI

l!k

t

2

Section 754(5) of the Code, defines a "judgment" and an "order". In that Section,

judgment means any judgment or order having the effect of a final judgment made by any Civil

Court whilst the order means a final expression of any decision in any civil action, proceeding or

matter which is not a judgment. Different procedure shall be adopted when filing appeals

against a "judgment" and a totally separate procedure is to be followed when it comes to

canvass an "order". Referring to those two different procedures, learned Counsel for the

respondent submits that this appeal should be dismissed as the appellant has chosen a wrong

procedure in this instance by filing a final appeal instead of filing a leave to appeal application.

As mentioned hereinbefore, the decision that is being challenged is an order to deposit

Rs.300,OOO/-, in order to appear and to defend the action. Therefore, it is abundantly clear that

such a decision would not amount to a judgment as defined in Section 754(5) of the Civil

Procedure Code. It is not a decision having the effect of a final judgment. The trial has not even

begun in this case. The procedure that should be adopted when canvassing an order, as in this

instance, is referred to in Section 754(2) of the Civil Procedure Code. In such a situation a party

seeking to prefer an appeal shall first had and obtained leave of the Court of Appeal. In this

instance no such leave had been obtained. The appellant has opted to file a final appeal

without leave being obtained. Therefore, it is clear that the appellant has chosen wrong

procedure when coming to this Court. Accordingly, it is clear that this appeal is misconceived.

For the aforesaid reasons this appeal is dismissed with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

KLP/-