==== BLOCKS ==== 

• ,

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A 834/96(F) D.C. Kalutara 3934/L

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERATNEJ

Sisira de Abrew J. & Anil Gooneratne J.

D. Babynona Madinakanda, Payagala ..

PLAINTIFF -APPELLANT

Vs.

Charlet Vinifreeda Fonseka, North Payagala.

DEFENDANT -RESPONDENT

Both the Appellant and the Respondent are absent and unrepresented

01.02.2011

This is a final appeal from the judgment of the District Court,

Kalutara. When this matter came up for hearing on 25.10.2010 before us

both parties were absent and unrepresented. As such this court directed the

2

Registrar of the Court of Appeal, to notice the parties and re-fixed the appeal

for hearing on 14.12.2010. However even on the 14th December 2010 parties

were absent and unrepresented. Thereafter this court having perused the

material, reserved the judgment to a subsequent date. This judgment is

delivered having considered the position of both parties from the available

material as contained in the brief.

Plaintiff-Appellant filed action in the District Court of Kalutara

to recover possession of the premises described in the schedule to the plaint

since she had been forcibly dispossessed by Defendant on or about

29.06.l991 and for damages in a sum ofRs. 25,000/- and further damages in

the manner pleaded in the plaint. Parties proceeded to trial on an admission

(Deed of lease No. 422 of 1949.3.10 and Plaintiff's late husband was the

lessee) and ten issues. This being a possessory action, issue No. 3 had been

suggested to the effect that since judgment in case No. M.R 3027, Plaintiff-

appellant is in possession of the premises in dispute. It is evident that in the

above case No. 3027, the Plaintiff had filed action previously against the

Defendant for possession and damages. In that judgment Plaintiff was only

awarded damages in a sum ofRs. 5000/- and no other relief i.e possession or

eviction of Defendant. Therefore the Trial Judge has, in the case in hand

correctly answered that issue in the negative. Further by the evidence led at

,

3

the trial there is no cogent reason that could be inferred as to how the

Plaintiff-Appellant came into possession of the premises in dispute. As such

the Defendant's version is more probable.

On a perusal of the judgment we find that the Trial Judge has

correctly analysed the evidence and come to a conclusion that the Plaintiff

has failed to establish the main question of possession of Plaintiff and not

proved issue Nos. 1 - 5 in a manner to be answered in favour of the Plaintiff.

We have considered the evidence led at the trial of both parties

and the submissions made to the Trial Court. There is no merit in this

appeal, and we find no cogent reason to disturb the findings of the Trial

Judge.

Appeal dismissed without costs.

Sisira de Abrew J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COUR