==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

CA 1222/96(F)

DC-KANDY-17266/L

Before

Counsel

Decided on

*********

N.G. Kusumawathie,

Defendant-Appellant

Vs.

1. Pahala Muthuranwelli

Gedara Rathnasiri

Muthuranwela

2. Pahala Muthuranwelli

Gedara Saartha

Muthuranwela

Plaintiff-Respondents

K.T. Chitrasiri, J.

Parties are absent and unrepresented

19.11. 2013

11Page

JII

K.T. Chitrasiri, J.

When this matter was mentioned on 22.10.2013, Defendant-

Appellant was absent and unrepresented even though the

Registrar of this court has sent notices under registered

cover to the Defendant Appellant as well as to her

Registered Attorney, Surangani Kodi tuwakku directing them

to be present in this court. The notice sent to the

appellant had been returned with the endorsement that she

has left the given address. It is to the address given in

the petition of appeal that the notice had been sent.

Notice sent to her Registered Attorney had not been

returned. However, no appearance has been marked on behalf

of the Defendant Appellant even on that date.

On that date namely 22.10.2013, the Plaintiff-Respondents

were represented by Sudath Bakmeewatta. Accordingly, the

matter was fixed for argument today. Today , neither the

appellant nor the Respondents are present in court. They

are not being represented by an Attorney-at-Law either.

Accordingly, this appeal is taken up for consideration in

the absence of the parties.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the judgement dated

25.10.1996. By that judgement, learned District Judge of

21Page

tI

f , I,

{

I !

Kandy decided the case in favour of the plaintiffs as

prayed for in paragraph 'a' in the amended plaint filed on

23.09.1993. However, the learned District Judge has

declined to grant the other reliefs prayed for in the

aforesaid amended plaint. Being aggrieved by the said

decision of the learned District Judge, the Defendant-

Appellant (hearing after referred to as the appellant)

filed this appeal.

In the petition of appeal dated 23.12.1996, it is stated

that the appellant did not intend to transfer the ownership

of the land subj ected to in this case and therefore the

deed bearing No. 309 (PI) was executed only as a security

for the money that she obtained from the plaintiff-

Respondents (hearing after referred to as the Respondents).

Accordingly, the amended plaint and the issues framed on

behalf of the appellant had been on the basis that the

appellant was ready with the money that she obtained with

the interest accrued thereto, in order to have the property

in suit transferred in her name though the respondents were

not prepared to do so. Accordingly, she has taken up the

position that it caused her unbearable loss and has sought

to dismiss the plaint.

31Page

IIi r•! l i

I

i

)

I [ f

In the circumstance, it is clear that the action in the

District Court had been on the basis of the agreement

between the parties as to the payment of money that the

appellant has obtained from the Respondents. The

Respondents have stated that they gave Rs. 60,000/- to the

Appellant with the condition that they will re-transfer the

property in the event the appellant returns the money with

interest. The appellant in her evidence has stated that

Ishe obtained only Rs. 40,000/-and the Rs. 60,000/-

referred to by the respondents included the interest

component as well. However, in the deed marked Pl, the

Notary who executed the deed has stated that Rs. 60,000/-

was paid in his presence by the Respondents to the

appellant. (Vide page 75 in the appeal brief) .

Accordingly, the learned District Judge has declined to

accept the position taken up by the appellant. I do not

see any error in concluding so by the learned District

Judge.

The evidence also reveals that the appellant has failed to

return the money as agreed. Therefore, it is clear that

the learned District Judge is correct when he rejected the

posi tion taken up by the appellant having considered the

facts in issue raised by the parties.

41Page

)

i I \

At this stage, it must be noted that the appellant has not

taken up any defence on the basis of a constructive trust

or on the basis of lesio enomis. Such failure on the part

of the appellant has been referred to even by the learned

trial Judge. Had the appellant taken up such a defence,

the trial judge could have considered the matter on those

lines.

In the circumstance, I am not inclined to interfere with

the findings of the learned District Judge. For the

aforesaid reasons, this appeal is dismissed without costs.

Appeal dismissed.

II

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

LA/-

51Page ,

f j I

!