==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A. (PHC) APN No: 50/2013 H.C. Anuradhapura Rev. No: 14/11 M.C. Kebithigollewa No: 68283

Gamagedara Mudiyanselage Dickson Keerthisinghe, 1st Mile Post, Padaviya Hidagollagedara Prema Priyangani, 1st Mile Post, Padaviya

Claimant-Petitioner-Petitioner Vs. 1. H.J.M.J Perera, Forest Officer, The Forest Conservation Office, Kebithigollew

Complainant-Respondent-Respondent 2. Hon. Attorney General Attorney General's Department Colombo-12.

Respondent-Respondent

C.A. (PHC) APN No:50/2013 -H.C. Anuradhapura Rev. No: 14/11

M.C. Kebithigollewa No: 68283

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED &

DECIDED ON

K. T. Chitrasiri, J.

K. T. Chitrasiri, J. &

P.R. Walgama J

Saliya Pieris with Thanuka Nandasiri for the

Claimant -Peti tioner-Petitioner.

Anoopa de Silva SSC. for the Complainant-Respondent -Respondent.

29.01.2015.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The Complainant Petitioner-Petitioner (hereinafter refered as the

Petitioner) by his petition dated 05.04.2013 made an application

seeking inter alia to revise and set aside the order of the learned

High Court Judge of the North Central Province wherein the learned

Judge refused an application to vary the order of confiscation of the

tractor bearing No. NCHY. 2278 and the trailer bearing No. 44 Sri

4160. Learned Magistrate by his order dated 12.05.2011 confiscated

the aforesaid tractor and the trailer which had been used to commit

an offence under the Forest Ordinance as subsequently amended.

In the Magistrate's Court, the accused pleaded guilty to the

charge levelled against him under the said Forest Ordinance. In such

a situation, the proviso to section 40, enables the owner of the vehicle

that had been used to commit the offence under the Forest Ordinance,

to claim that vehicle provided he establishes that he has taken all

1

precautionary. measures to prevent the offence being committed.

Accordingly, it is

necessary to look at the evidence that had been adduced to establish

the precautions, taken by the owner in order to consider making an

order releasing the vehicle.

The Petitioner, namely Dickson Keerthisinghe alleged to have

been the owner of the vehicle, has given evidence to show the manner

in which the precautionary measures were taken. Another witness, by

the name of Nimal Keerthisinghe who is the brother of the Petitioner

also has given evidence. (vide at pages 37 to 44 of the appeal brief). In

the evidence of the Petitioner he has clearly stated that he and his

brother who had been the Registered owners at all material times had

been working abroad. (at page 38 of the appeal brief). Hence, it is clear

that the owners of the vehicle had no physical control of the vehicle

for them to take precautionary measures.

Learned Counsel for the Petitioner too admit that both the

persons who have given evidence had been out of the country during

the period the offence was committed. Their evidence is that they have

given instructions to the wife of the Petitioner to have the control over

the vehicle in their absence. Learned Magistrate has come to the

conclusion that such directions given by the owners are not sufficient

to establish the precautionary measures that were taken in order to

prevent committing the offence making use of the vehicle in question.

We do not see any error in such findings.

Significantly, the wife of the petitioner who had the physical

control over the vehicle has not come forward to give evidence.

Failure to give evidence by the person who had the control over the

vehicle at all material times show the inability of the Petitioner to

satisfy Court to establish the necessary precautions that were taken

to prevent the offence being committed in this instance.

2

\I

Ii I

For the aforesaid reasons, we are not inclined to interfere with

the findings of the learned Magistrate and the learned High Court

Judge. Accordingly, this petition is dismissed.

Registrar is directed to inform the learned High Court Judge of

Anuradhapura and the learned Magistrate of Kebathigollawa to take

necessary steps in accordance with the order made by the learned

Magistrate on 12.05.2011, since the said order is to prevail with the

pronouncement of this decision.

Petition is dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.R. Walgama, J.

I agree

CNj-JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

3