==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRILANKA

C A 45 /2000 (F) D.C. Colombo No. 16545/ L

Weliwita Kankanamage Upatissa J ayathilake, Mahawatta, Sinharamulla, Kelaniya.

PLaintiff Vs.

Bolabotuwage Mahinda Piyadasa, Mawatta, Sinharamulla, Kelaniya.

Defendant

NOW BETWEEN

Weliwita Kankanamage Upatissa Jayathilake, Mahawatta, Sinharamulla, Kelaniya.

Plaintiff Appellant

Vs.

Bolabotuwage Mahinda Piyadasa, Mawatta, Sinharamulla, Kelaniya.

Defendant Respondent

f I

1

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

Gamini Hettiarachchi for the Plaintiff Appellant

B.O.P. Jayawardane for the Defendant Respondent

22.02.2013

11.10.2013

The Plaintiff Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant)

instituted the said action against the Defendant Respondent (hereinafter referred to

as the Respondent) in the District Court of Colombo seeking to demarcate the

western boundary of the land depicted in plan bearing No 2241 dated 09.10.1992

and a declaration of title to the land described in the schedule to the plaint and also

to eject the Defendant Respondent from the portion of land which was not handed

over to the Appellant by the Respondent. The Respondent has filed an answer

praying for a dismissal of the Appellant's action. The case proceeded to trial upon

10 issues. After trial, the learned Additional District Judge has dismissed the

Appellant's action subject to recover a sum of Rs 11 0,0001- with interest from the

Respondent. Being aggrieved by the said judgment dated 22.02.2000 the Appellant

has preferred the present appeal to this court.

The Respondent has taken up the position that since the property in

question had been gifted to his two children by deed of gift bearing No 749 dated

02.04.1992 it could not be transferred to the Appellant. The learned Counsel for

the Respondent further contended that the Appellant's action was an action for

3

demarcation of boundaries and hence the Appellant could not seek a declaration of

title in the same action.

I now advert to the said submission. It clearly appears from prayer (b)

of the plaint that the Appellant has sought a judgment declaring him as the owner

of the land described in the schedule to the plaint. The scope of a rei-vindicatio

action is larger than that of a definition of boundaries. In a vindicatory action the

claimant need nearly prove two facts; namely, that he is the owner of the thing and

that the thing to which he is entitled to possession by virtue of his ownership is in

the possession of the defendant. (See Jinawathie and Others vs. Emalin Perera

[1986] 2 Sri L.R. 121 and Theivandran vs. Ramanathan Chettiar [1986] 2 Sri

L.R.219)

On the other hand an action for definition of boundaries lies only

where parties are admittedly owners of contiguous lands and the common

boundary between the two lands has become uncertain. In an action to define

boundaries the plaintiff must show that an ascertainable common boundary

previously existed on the ground and such boundary had been obliterated

subsequently. If there is no ascertainable common boundary the action should

come to an end. Hence in the guise of an action for definition of boundaries a

plaintiff cannot vindicate title to an encroachment.

Therefore the Appellant cannot have and maintained a rei-vindicatio

action within an action for definition of boundaries. Hence the Appellant is not

entitled to the reliefs claimed in prayer (b), (c) and (d) of the plaint.

I

I 4

As I have enunciated hereinbefore the Appellant in the present case

must prove that an ascertainable common boundary previously existed on the

ground and such boundary had been obliterated subsequently. It is apparent from

the evidence of the Appellant that he has failed to show that there did exit a prior

live or physical boundary fence along the western boundary of the land claimed by

him.

For the forgoing reasons I am of the view that the learned Additional

District Judge is correct in concluding that the Appellant is not entitled to a

judgment as prayed for in the plaint. Hence I dismiss the appeal of the Appellant

with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

\