==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRAT.IC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A.344/2007--

H.C. A vissawella No.1 06/2003

In the matter of an appeal in terms of Se.331 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act No.15 of 1975.

Don Athukoralage Indrasiri

Accused Appellant

Vs

Hon. Attorney General

Respondent

Before: W.L.Ranjith Silva, J. & D.S.C.Lecamwasam, J.

Counsel: A.K.Chandrakantha for the Accused Appellant

Sarath Jayamanne D.S.G for the State

Argued: 20-06-2011 and 08-07-2011

W/subm: 23-08-2011

Decided: 01-11-2011

W.L.Ranjith Silva, J.

The accused appellant, who shall hereinafter sometimes referred to as the

appellant, was indicted in the High Court of A vissawwlla for committing

the murder of his wife Kaluhakuruge Priyangani, on or about first of

October 1997 at Wellikanna, which is an offence punishable under section

________ 296 read with section 294 of the Penal Code.

The appellant opted for a non jury trial and was tried accordingly, found

guilty convicted for murder and sentenced to death. Being aggrieved by the

said conviction and the sentence the appellant has preferred this appeal to

this Court against the said conviction and the sentence.

On the day of the incident around 8:30 p.m. the father of the deceased,

(witness No.2) had heard the discharge of a gun followed by shouting from

the direction of the house where the appellant and his daughter lived. He

had rushed there immediately and found his daughter lying on the floor

with bleeding injuries. The appellant \vas at that time sitting on a bed and

had told the witness that one Perera who \vas their immediate neighbour

shot his wife. The appellant had also mentioned this to Lionel, the son of

witness No.2. Thereafter this witness had gone to the house of the said

Perera but Perera had refused to open the door for him and had told him to

come with the police.

The investigating officer S.l. Guna\vardana having received the

information from Lionel, along with several other officers, arrived at the

place of incident. As he entered the house the appellant who was seated on

an easy chair had attempted to run away and this officer had chased after

the appellant and arrested him. On search of his person (the appellant's) he

found a currency note to the value of Rs. 500 and a gold ring in one of his

trouser pockets. Thereafter he recorded a statement from the appellant and

on that statement hehad~recovered three~parceJs ofgunpowder-,~~(1 ~tic~ used

to compress / load gunpowder into the barrel of the gun. On the same

statement the shotgun used in the crime was also recovered from a toilet pit

on the following day. The appellant made a statement and in that he had

stated that when he was trying to put his child to sleep he heard the sound

of gunfire from, the direction of the kitchen and then he saw his wife come

there with blood on her chest, emitted a sound (eai) and fell on the floor.

There were no eye witnesses for the prosecution and the case rested

entirely on circumstantial evidence. The appellant was the wife of the

deceased and they lived in that house \vith their two-year-old child. The

body of the deceased was found lying bet\veen the kitchen and the hall of

the house. At the time of the incident the appellant \vas present in the

house and the evidence disclosed that the appellant" raised cries soon after

the incident and that the father of the deceased and the brother of the

3

deceased who were living in the same neighbourhood, close by, had rushed

to the scene and the appellant, at that point of time, had told the farther of

the deceased that the deceased was shot by Perera.

Perera lived with his wife and five children in close proximity, 65 feet a

way from the house of the deceased. He denied the allegation but admitted

that he was not in good terms "vith the deceased family over a minor

disp-ufE.- The relatioris-between them were-strained as the children of Perera

had taken some vegetables from the garden of the deceased. The appellant

had another case pending against Perera on a charge of arson but Perera

was discharged from the proceedings as the appellant refrained from giving

evidence in that case. The father and the brother of the deceased never

suspected or implicated Perera. Although the police took Perera into

custody and questioned him he was released the following day. At the trial,

on behalf of the defence, it "vas suggested to Perera that he was the one

who shot the deceased but the allegation was promptly denied by him.

Grounds of appeal

At the stage of arguments and also in the written submissions the appellant

urged the following gro~nds of appeal.

a) Delay on the part of the Judge in pronouncing the Judgment,

b) Misdirections made by the Learned Trial Judge in the evaluation of

evidence.

Circumstantial evidence

According to the medical evidence, that has virtually gone unchallenged,

the gunshot injuries that were found on the body of the deceased cg~}d .

have been caused by the discharge of a gun at close range of about 3 feet

from a high elevation. (Vide. Page 143 of the brief) At page 120, S.l.

Gunawardane has stated in his evidence that the gun would have been

aimed through one of the smoke holes that were found on one of the

kitchen walls. This police officer further stated that if a person stood

outside the smoke holes he could have easily seen the inside of the kitchen.

The red coloured plastic can found inside the kitchen had two bullet holes

on it and two pellets inside the can which smelled of gunpowder. The

Counsel argued that on this evidence there was a strong possibility that the

gun was fired from outside the house and that the findings of the Learned

Judge on that issue was erroneous. The evidence of the police officer with

regard to the fact that where the assassin would have been standing when

the gun was fired was just a bear opinion and this officer was certainly not

competent to express such an opinion. The district medical officer who

5

conducted the post-mortem (autopsy) opined that the deceased died due to,

gunshot injuries and that the gun was fired at very close range at a distance

of about 3 feet. According to the opinion expressed by the medical officer

the range; of firing could not have been more than 3 feet and also there had

been burn marks at the entry to the wound and also marks of smoke at the

exit of the injury. The deceased had gunshot injuries on her chest near the

. he~rt and the injuries_were necessarily tatal. On this evidence the only

rational or sensible conclusion that one could safely draw is that at the time

the gun was discharged who ever the miscreant would have been, would

have done so from within the house and not from outside and the assassin

would have been just 3 feet away from the deceased.

The investigating officer has recovered the bullets and the two empty used

cartridges from the kitchen of the house of the deceased. (Vide. Pages 116

and 117 of the brief). This vital piece of evidence proves beyond any doubt

that the gun had been discharged and the fatal bullets had been fired from

within the house that is inside the kitchen. If the assassin had done it from

outside the kitchen then the empty cartridges should have been found

outside the kitchen.

According to the Government Analyst the gun sent to him for analysis was

a locally manufactured one and that gun was in working condition. The

medical evidence was that it was possible for the injuries to have been

caused by the said gun.

On hearing the cries raised by the appellant when the father of the deceased

visited the house the accused was inside the house. He was in the house,

seated and he did not take any steps to go out of the house in pursuit of Mr.

Perera or in search of the assassin. Even after the father and the brother of

the deceased came to the house of the appellant the appellant neither

showed any interest to dispatch his injured wife to the hospital nor made

any effort to go to the police station to inform the police. This is not the

conduct that could be expected from a husband in the ordinary course of

events whose \vife was just gunned down by one of his neighbours.

It is also significant to note th~t the Father and the brother of the deceased

wh_o came immediately to the house of the deceased did not confront, meet

or see Mr Perera the person who the accused said was the culprit especially

in considering the fact that Mr Perera lived 65 feet away from the house of

the deceased. (Vide page.97)

It was also in evidence that the behaviour of the appellant was strange and

that he had been consuming liquor as there was a bottle of alcohol nearby.

7

It was also in evidence that the appellant had tried to escape when the

police came there and that the police gave chase and apprehended him.

It was ;also in evidence that when the police apprehended the appellant and

searched him they found a Gold ring in his pocket that was later identified

as belonging to the deceased. The father of the deceased corroborated this

evidence with regard to the recovery made by the police and he too

identified the ring.

The accused made a statement to the police and the police recovered the

gun that was used in the commission of the crime from a toilet pit in the

garden of the accused appellant just adjacent to the house of the appellant.

This was recovered on the following day as it was late in the night and the

,-police could not recover the gun immediately. It appears that soon after

recording the statement of the appellant the police arrested the appellant

and had taken him to the police station and thereafter brought him back to

the house on the following day in order to recover the gun. This is what

would have happened in the normal course of events. Whether the accused

appellant was present at the time of the recovery of the gun or not does not

affect the evidence and there is no requirement in law that the recovery has

to be made in the presence of the person who made the statement. Police

witnesses have made two different statements with regard to the presence

of the appellant at the time of the recovery of the gun and I am of the

opinion that this discrepancy in evidence is not sufficient to discredit any

one of those witnesses.

On the statement made by the appellant the police recovered certain

material that was used in the preparation of local cartridges.

Father of the deceased in his evidence stated that there had been

intermittent quarrels between the deceased and the appellant and also

complaints of harassment by the appellant and that the deceased on certain

occasions used to come to their house to avoid the appellant. The father of

the deceased had stated in evidence that there were complaints against the

appellant made to the police by the deceased in this regard.

Circumstantial evidence is that which relates to a series of other facts than

the fact in issue, which by experience had been found so associated with

that fact than in relation of cause and effect they lead to a satisfactory

conclusion. For example when foot prints are discovered after a recent

snow, it is proper to infer that some animated being passed over the snow,

since it fell and from the form and number of the foot prints it can be

determined whether they are those of a man a bird or quadruped. All the

judicial evidence is either direct or circumstantial. By direct evidence is

meant the principal fact or factum probandum attested directly by the

9

witnesses, things or documents. To all other forms the term circumstantial

evidence is applied.

The case against the appellant is entirely dependent on circumstantial

evidence. Therefore it has become necessary to consider the principles

governing the reception and evaluation of circumstantial evidence. In the

case of Queen Vs Kularatne71 NLR at page 534 the Court of Criminal

Appeal quoted with approval what Watermeyer, J. held in Rex Vs Blom. I

quote, "Two Cardinal rules which govern the case of circumstantial

evidence in a criminal trial:

1) The infer~ence sought to be drawn must be consistent with all the proved

facts. If it does not, then the inference cannot be dravvn.

2) The proved facts should be such that they exclude every reasonable

inference from them, save the one to be drawn. If they had not excluded

the other reasonable inferences, then there must be a doubt whether the

inference sought to be drawn is correct.

It was held in the case of the Queen V s Santin Singbo 65 NLR at page

445 that in the case of circumstantial evidence a direction given by the trial

judge in the summing up that the accused person must explain each and

every circumstance established by the prosecution is wrong and would

completely negative the direction given earlier by' him that the

circumstances must not only be consistent with the accused persons gilt but

should also be inconsistent with his innocence.

It was also held in this case that it is fundamental that the burden of proof is

on the prosecution. Whether the evidence the prosecution relies on is direct

or circumstantial the burden is the same. This burden is not altered by the

failure of the appellant to give evidence and explain the circumstances.

In Emperor Vs Brown 1917 Criminal Law Journal 482 the court held

that the Jury must decide whether the facts proved exclude the possibility

that the act was done by some other person and if they have doubts,

prisoner must have the benefit of those doubts. (Queen Vs Kularatne

(supra))~

In King V s Abeywickrama 44 NLR 254 it was held as follows. I quote;

"in order to base a conviction on circumstantial evidence the Jury must be

satisfied that the evidence "vas consistent with the guilt of the accused and

inconsistent with any reasonable hypotheses of his innocence." (See also

King V s Appuhamy 46 NLR 128, Podisingho V s King 53 NLR 49)

In the face of all the items of incriminating circumstantial evidence

11

aforementioned which no doubt make out a very strong case against the

appellant it is necessary to consider whether it would be fair to expect an

explanation from the appellant. In this regard I refer to Rex V s Cochrane

1814 Gurney's Report 499 and Ajith Fernando Vs Attorney General

2004 SLR 288. Their Lordships held in those cases that although an

accused is entitled to remain silent when there is a cogent case made

against him which requires an explanation from him, if the accused is in a

position to explain but does not explain, certain adverse inferences can be

drawn against the accused. (See also; R Vs Seeder Silva 41 NLR 337,

King Vs Wickramasinghe 42 NLR 313, King VS Peiris Appuhamy 43

NLR410)

First Ground-delay in pronouncing the Judgment

Counsel for the appellant contended that the Judgment was postponed on

two occasions 'without recording any reasons for such postponement and

that finally the Judgment was pronounced after nearly two months causing

serious prejudice to the accused appellant. I find that this argument is not

tenable. A delay of two months cannot be considered as having caused

substantial prejudice to the appellant in the circumstances of this case. The

case was not dependent on the evidence of eye witnesses or an eyewitness

in which case the deportment and demeanour of the witness would have

been relevant and all-important. This is a case dependent entirely on

circumstantial evidence.

In the instant case there are different witnesses speaking to several distinct

circumstances; all tending to the same result, namely the guilt of the

appellant. Each circumstance is a necessary link in the chain of evidence

required to produce a conviction of the appellant; and there is therefore the

less danger of perjury in this case. Circumstantial evidence in the abstract

nearly, though perhaps not altogether as strong as positive evidence that is

direct evidence in the concrete, it may be infinitely stronger.

Second ground of appeal

Evaluation of the circumstantial evidence and the dock

statement

At page 205 to page 226 of the brief in particular page 211 and 212 the

Learned Trial Judge having studied the evidence has concluded that the

shooting had taken place within the kitchen and not __ from outside and not

by an outsider but by the person who was inside the house. The learned

High Court judge has considered the medical evidence and the evidence

given by the police officers in arriving at this decision which is most

fundamental and relevant and which is the most significant circumstantial

evidence that vvas against the appellant, vital and decisive. The learned

judge cannot be faulted for the conclusions he had drawn on the subsequent

conduct of the appellant. The learned judge has also given reasons as to

why he came to the conclusion that the appellant had attempted to fabricate

l3

a case against his neighbours Mr. Perera and as to why he rejected the story

of the appellant. Referring to the dock statement the Learned Trial Judge

has sufficiently analyzed and evaluated the dock statement and Learned

Trial Judge cannot be faulted on that too. The Learned Judge has also

given reason as to why he decided that the accused should explain the

highly incriminating evidence against him and as to why he decided to

apply the Ellenborough principles.

F or the reasons I have adumbrated on the law and the facts pertaining to

this case, in the foregoing paragraphs of this Judgment, I hold that the

learned judge cannot be faulted for the conclusions drawn and the findings

he reached including his Judgment. As I see no merit in t}:lis appeal, I

dismiss the same, whilst affirming the conviction and the sentence.

JUDG URT OF APPEAL

D.S.C .. Lecamwasam,1.

~.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

\

I I r \

\ i

- f

I

1 t

~ , , ,

,