==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 525 I 2000 F

D.C. Polonnaruwa No. 6542/95/L

Amarasinghelage Amara Wickremasinghe, No 178, Monarathenna, Palugasdamana, Polonnaruwa.

Vs.

Plaintiff

Anula Chitralatha Kumari, No. 485, 500 Acre Housing Scheme, NewTown, Polonnaruwa.

AND

Amarasinghelage Amara Wickremasinghe, No 178, Monarathenna, Palugasdamana, Polonnaruwa.

Defendant

Plaintiff Petitioner

Vs

Anula Chitralatha Kumari, No. 485, 500 Acre Housing Scheme, New Town, Polonnaruwa.

Defendant Respondent

lI

BEFORE

COUNSELS

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

AND NOW BETWEEN

Amarasinghelage Amara Wickremasinghe, No 1 78, Monarathenna, Palugasdamana, Polonnaruwa.

Plaintiff Petitioner Appellant

Vs.

Anula Chitralatha Kumari, No. 485, 500 Acre Housing Scheme, NewTown, Polonnaruwa.

Defendant Respondent- Respondent

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

Bimal Rajapaksa with Ravindra Anavaratne for

the Plaintiff Appellant

W .D. W eeraratne for the Defendant Respondent

16.05.2012

18.01.2013

The Plaintiff Petitioner Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the

Appellant) instituted the said action against the Defendant Respondent-Respondent

(hereinafter referred to as the Respondent) in the District Court of Polonnaruwa

3

praying for a judgment that the Appellant was entitled to the possession of the land

described in the schedule to the plaint.

On the 2nd date of trial namely on 19.11.1997 the Appellant was

absent in Court. The Counsel for the Appellant had informed Court that he has no

instructions to appear and prosecute the case. Thereafter the learned trial Judge has

dismissed the action of the Appellant. Thereafter the Appellant has made an

application to vacate the said order of dismissal of the action. The Respondent has

filed her statement of objection to the said application. After an inquiry the learned

Additional District Judge has dismissed the said Application of the Appellant.

Being aggrieved by the said order of dismissal dated 29.08.2000 the Appellant has

appealed to this Court.

It appears from the proceedings of the case that at the aforesaid

inquiry the Appellant has led evidence to prove that on the relevant date she could

not come to Court due to sudden illness arisen with her pregnancy. In support of

this fact the Appellant has produced a medical certificate marked P 1. Said medical

Certificate has been proved by the evidence of the Doctor who had issued it. Said

Doctor in his evidence has said that he had given treatments to the Appellant. The

Respondent has not adduced any material to disbelieve the said evidence.

When I consider the said evidence it seems to me that the learned

Additional District Judge without paying his attention to the provisions contained

in Section 87(3) of the Civil Procedure Code has dismissed the Appellant's said

Application. It must be noted that Section 87(3) of the Code has not laid down

such a simple procedure when an action is dismissed under Section 87(1) of the

Code. Subsection (3) of Section 87 read thus;

i

I

t

4

87(3) The plaintiff may apply within a reasonable time from the date of

dismissal, by way of petition supported by affidavit, to have the

dismissal set aside, and if on the hearing of such application, of which

the defendant shall be given notice, the court is satisfied that there

were reasonable grounds for the non-appearance of the plaintiff, the

court shall make order setting aside the dismissal upon such terms as

to costs or otherwise as it thinks fit, and shall appoint a day for

proceeding with the action as from the stage at which the dismissal for

default was made.

According to Subsection (3) if the court is satisfied that there are

reasonable grounds for the non-appearance of the plaintiff, then the court shall

make order setting aside the dismissal. Hence the duty of the trial judge is to

consider whether the evidence before him reveals reasonable grounds for setting

aside the dismissal.

In the said circumstances I am of the view that the learned Additional

District Judge has erred in rejecting the evidence and the medical Certificate and

dismissing the action for non-appearance of the Appellant. It appears that the

learned trial judge has embarked on a voyage of discovery to find the shortcomings

pertaining to the issuance of the medical certificate.

In the said circumstances I set aside the order of the learned

Additional District Judge dated 29.08.2000 and allow the appeal of the Appellant

with costs. I direct that this case be sent back to Polonnaruwa District Court to

proceed with the trial expeditiously.

Appeal allowed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal