==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Ambagahawattage Sarath Fernando

C.A. No:270/2012 Accused-Appellant

H.C. Matara Case No:236/07

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

Vs.

Hon. The Attorney General.

SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J. (ACTING PICA) &

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA, J.

Indica Mallawarachchi for the Accused-Appellant.

Yasantha Kodagoda, DSG, for the A.G.

11.02.2014 & 12.02.2014.

12.02.2014.

1

SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J. (ACTING PI CAl

Accused-appellant is present in Court produced by the

Prison Authorities.

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of a

man named, Maithripala Rubasinghe and was sentenced to death.

He was also convicted for robbing a three wheeler bearing

registration No.203-1067 from the possession of the said deceased

person and was sentenced to a term of 7 years rigorous

imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs.10,OOOj- carrying a default

sentence of 6 months rigorous imprisonment. Being aggrieved by

the said conviction and the sentence he has appealed to this Court.

The accused-appellant is the 2nd accused in this case.

The 1 st and the 2nd accused both were charged for the offence of

murder and the offence of robbery. The 1st accused too was

convicted for both offences. The 1 st accused was tried in absentia.

He has not appealed against the conviction.

2

I l

I 1

-~ :1 l j I ,

Facts of this case may be briefly summarised as follows.

On 18.08.1997 around 8.30 to 9.30 a.m. the deceased

person who was a three wheeler driver parked his three wheeler

infront of Matara bus stand. Around 11.00 a.m. on that day two

people came and discussed a hire to go to Hakmana with the

deceased person. The deceased person quoted RsAOO / - for the hire.

The discussion between the said two people and the deceased

person took about five minutes. Chaminda Pushpa Kumara who

was also a three wheeler driver whose three wheeler was parked

near the deceased's three wheeler witnessed the entire discussion

between the deceased and the two people. These two people were

later identified by Chaminda Pushpa Kumara at an identification

parade. They were the 1st and the 2nd accused. Chaminda Pushpa

Kumara says that the said two persons (the 1 st and the 2nd accused)

took the rear seat of the three wheeler and the three wheeler driver,

the deceased person, drove away the three wheeler. This was

between 11.00 a.m. and 11045 a.m. The deceased person never

returned to the three wheeler park. About 5 days later, decomposed

body of Maithripala Rubasinghe (the deceased person) was found at

a place called Walpita Jungle which was 6 miles away from

Akuressa town. Chaminda Pushpa Kumara, at an identification

parade, had identified the two persons as the persons who took the

three wheeler with the deceased person. He also identified the 2nd

3

accused (accused-appellant) in this case as one of the persons who

went with the 1 st accused in the three wheeler of the deceased

person.

10 days later the deceased's three wheeler was found in

the compound of one Letchamie in Matale district. The Grama

Sevaka of the area Sunil Senanayake handed over the three wheeler

to the police station. Minutes after he handed over the three

wheeler to the police station, a person came and claimed the three

wheeler. Sunil Senanayake later identified this person at an

identification parade. He is the 1 st accused in this case. Sunil

Senanayake directed the 1 st accused to go and claim the three

wheeler from the police station. He further showed him the route to

go to the police station. The 1st accused after going on the road

shown by Sunil Senanayake de-routed, but did not go to the police

station. The 1st accused never claimed the three wheeler from the

police station. Police, on a statement made by the 1st accused,

recovered a pawning receipt which indicates that a ring has been

pawned to a Pawning Centre in Matale. Thereafter police recovered

a ring. Prosecution tried to establish that the ring discovered from

the Pawning Centre was that of the deceased. But when we consider

the evidence we feel that the prosecution has not established the

4

ring discovered was that of the deceased. Police observed the name

of A.G. Sarath Fernando in the pawning receipt. Learned trial Judge

has concluded, on the said evidence, that the 2nd accused had

pawned the ring to the said Pawning Centre. He further concluded

that the ring discovered from the Pawning Centre belonged to the

deceased person. But when we consider the evidence there is no

concrete evidence to arrive at the said conclusion. We therefore hold

n..--- that the learned trial Judge committed )t<1 a misdirection on the said

point. Although the learned trial Judge committed a misdirection

we must consider whether the rest of the evidence establishes the

charge against the accused-appellant. Although the learned trial

Judge committed a misdirection, the Court of Appeal in terms of

proviso to Section 334 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act No. 15

of 1979 has a power to sustain a conviction. Proviso to Section 334

of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act reads as follows:

"Provided that the Court may, notwithstanding that it

is of opinion that the point raised in the appeal might

be decided in favour of the appellant, dismissed the

appeal if it considers that no substantial miscarriage

of justice as actually heard."

5

I I

I ! I I I

1

In this connection I rely on a judgment of the Court of Criminal

Appeal in The King vs. Musthapa Lebbe (44 NLR 505) wherein the

Court held thus -

"The Court of criminal appeal will not interfere with

the verdict of a jury unless it has a real doubt as to the

guilt of the accused or is of opinion that on the whole

it safer that the conviction should not be allowed to

stand."

Further I rely on a Judgment of His Lordship Justice H.N.G.

Fernando in M.H.M. Lafeer vs. The Queen (74 NLR page 246)

wherein His Lordship Justice H.N.G. Fernando held thus-

"There was thus both misdirection and non-direction

on matters concerning the standard of proof.

Nevertheless, we are of opinion having regard to the

cogent and uncontradicted evidence that a jury

properly directed could not have reasonably returned a

more favourable verdict. We therefore affirm the

conviction and sentence and dismiss the appeal."

6

According to the prosecution case the two accused after

discussing a hire to Hakmana went in the three wheeler driven by

the deceased person. The deceased person's body was later found in

highly decomposed position. The deceased person never returned to

the three wheeler park. Later the said three wheeler was found in

Matale and the 1 st accused who went with the 2nd accused claimed

the ownership of the three wheeler. Learned Deputy Solicitor

General does not rely on the evidence relating to discovery of the

pawning receipt and the ring. It has to be noted here that the two

accused persons went in the three wheeler on a hire to go to

Hakmana. What is the explanation given by the accused-appellant

to the above incriminating evidence? He merely denied the charge.

When we consider the dock statement we feel that the accused has

failed to offer any explanation to the incriminating evidence set out

above. Since the accused-appellant has failed to offer an

explanation to the incriminating evidence that I have stated above, I

would like to rely on the dictum of Lord Ellenborough in R vs. Lord

Cochrane and Others (1814 Gurney's Report 479) wherein it says-

"No person accused of crime is bound to offer any

explanation of his conduct or of circumstances of

suspicion which attach to him; but, nevertheless, if he

refuses to do so, where a strong prima facie case has

been made out, and when it is in his own power to

7

offer evidence, if such exist, in explanation of such

suspicious circumstances which would show them to

be fallacious and explicable consistently with his

innocence, it is a reasonable and justifiable conclusion

that he refrains from doing so only from the conviction

that the evidence so suppressed or not adduced would

operate adversely to his interest."

When I consider the evidence in this case I hold that the

prosecution has put forward a strong prima facie case and it is in

-t~

f'I2-.--the power of the accused who offer an explanation to the said

A incriminating evidence. Therefore, I am justified in relying on the

Dictum of Lord Ellenboro.

In Sumanasena vs. Attorney General His Lordship Justice

Jayasuriya (1999 3 SLR page 137) held thus-

"When the prosecution establishes a strong and

incriminating cogent evidence against the accused, the

accused in those circumstances was required in law to

offer an explanation of the highly incriminating

circumstances established against him."

8

In Baddewithana vs. The Attorney General (1990 1 SLR page

275) His Lordship Justice P.R.P. Perera held thus -

"From the failure of an accused to offer evidence when

a prima facie case has been made out by the

prosecution and the accused is in a position to offer an

explanation, an adverse inference may be drawn under

S. 114 (f) of the Evidence Ordinance."

In Boby Mathew vs. State of Karnataka (2004 Cr. L.J. Vol. III

page 3003) -

The body of the deceased person was found tied to a cot in the

accused-appellant's room. But the accused-appellant did not offer

any explanation to the evidence led by the prosecution. Indian

Supreme Court held that the accused was bound to offer an

explanation to the evidence led by the prosecution. His conviction of

murder was affirmed by the High Court of India.

Applying the principles laid down in the above judicial

decisions, I hold that failure of an accused person to offer an

explanation when a strong prima facie case has been established by

the prosecution can be considered against the accused-appellant.

9

Learned Counsel for the accused-appellant relying on the judgment

In The King vs. Appuhamy (46 NLR 128) contended that the time

of death should be established by the prosecution. She further

contended that the time of death has not been established in this

case. But we observe when the body was found after 5 days of the

incident it was in a highly decomposed position. In The King vs.

Appuhamy's case the deceased person was last seen with the

accused-appellant. But the accused-appellant after he left with the

deceased person came and met the brother of the deceased person

on two occasions. Considering the facts of that case His Lordship

Justice Keanaman decided that the establishing the time of death in

a circumstantial evidence case is essential. But the facts of

Appuhamy's case are quite different from the facts of this case. We

therefore hold that the said decision is not applicable to this case.

The 1 st accused who claimed the three wheeler 10 days after

18.08.1997 went with the 2nd accused in the three wheeler driven by

the deceased person. This was a hire to go to Hakmana. Hire was

discussed by both the 1st and the 2nd accused. When I consider the

evidence led at the trial, I hold that the participation of the 2nd

accused to the crime has been established beyond reasonable doubt.

Since the case of prosecution depended on circumstantial evidence I

would like to consider the rules governing circumstantial evidence.

10

In the case of The King vs. Abeywickrema (44 NLR 254) Soertsz J

remarked as follows.

"In order to base a conviction on circumstantial

evidence the jury must be satisfied that the

evidence was consistent with the guilt of the

accused and inconsistent with any reasonable

hypotheses of his innocence".

In The King vs Appuhamy 46 NLR 128 Keuneman J held that-

"in order to justify the inference of guilt from

purely circumstantial evidence, the inculpatory

facts must be incompatible with the innocence of

the accused and incapable of explanation upon

any other reasonable hypothesis than that of his

guilt" .

In Podisingho vs The King 53 NLR 49 Dias J held that -

"in a case of circumstantial evidence it is the

duty of the trial Judge to tell the jury that such

evidence must be totally inconsistent with the

innocence of the accused and must only be

consistent with his guilt."

11

t

In Emperor vs Browning (1917) 18 Cr. L.J. 482 court held that -

"the jury must decide whether the facts proved

exclude the possibility that the act was done by

some other person, and if they have doubts, the

pnsoner must have the benefits of those

doubts."

Applying the principles laid down in the above judicial

decisions I hold that in a case of circumstantial evidence if the Court

is going to arrive at a conclusion of guilt such an inference must be

the one and only, irresistible and inescapable inference that the

accused committed the crime. In the present case the two accused,

who went on a hire to Hakmana in the three wheeler driven by the

deceased person, did not offer any explanation to the said journey.

Later the decomposed body of the deceased person was found at a

place called Walpita Jungle which was 6 miles away from Akuressa

town. The three wheeler was claimed by the 1 st accused who went

with the 2nd accused in the said three wheeler. When I consider the

above evidence I hold that one and only, irresistible and inescapable

inference that the Court can arrive is that the both accused-appellant

committed the murder of the deceased person and robbed his three

12

wheeler. For the above reasons, we affirm the conviction and the

sentences and dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

TW

13