==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA No.CA(PHC)55/2011 HC/NE/32/10 M.C.Hatton No. 21542

02. 03 04.

Mukan Loganathan Periyasamy Devaraj

R. Vengadasalam

BEFORE

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

Decided on:

Sunil Rajapaksa J.,

05. Pichchalsivaraj All of Bogawantalawa 22060

2-5 Respondents-Petitioners-

Appellants

Vs A.P.H.De V.Gunawardena No.4 Pieris Veda Mawatha, Ambalangoda

Petitioner-Respondent-Respondent

A.W.A. Salam J., and

Sunil Rajapakse J.,

Anura Meddagoda for the 2nd and 5th Appellants

30.10.2013

01.08.2014

This Appeal has been filed by the 2nd_5th Respondent-Petitioner-

Appellants challenging the Order dated 08.06.2011 of the learned High

Court Judge of Nuwara Eliya. The learned High Court Judge affirmed the

order made by the learned Magistrate of Hatton dated 30.07.2010.

2

The Order of the learned Magistrate was made in respect of a

dispute affecting land and premises where the breach of peace was

threatened, in terms of Chapter VII of the Primary Courts Procedure Act

No.44 of 1979. In the Magistrates Court, after considering the submissions

and the documents submitted by both parties., the learned Magistrate has

held that the Petitioner Respondent Respondent is entitled to possession of

the said disputed land and premises. Being aggrieved by the said Order, the

Appellants filed an application for Revision before the High Cou4t of

Nuwara Eliya. The Revision Application was dismissed by the learned High

Court Judge of Nuwara Eliya.

When the case was taken up for argument the Appellants main

contention was that the learned High Court Judge's Order was bad in law

on the following grounds:

i. That the affidavits filed in the Magistrate's Court are bad in

law;

ii. That the Court has failed to consider the evidence placed

before Court by the Appellants;

iii. That there has been non-compliance with the provisions of the

Primary Court Procedure Act No. 44 of 1979;

iv. That the Respondents have failed to satisfy the Court that they

were in possession of the land in dispute during the period of

two months immediately preceding the institution of the

action in the Magistrate's Court.

I

iIi

!j,

Ir!II!IIii ii

3

After analyzing the Order of the learned High Court Judge of

Nuwara Eliya, I am of the opinion that the order of the learned High

Court Judge is a well considered order as the learned High Court

", Judge had taken into consideration both relevant facts and law when

arriving at the decision on 28.06.2011.

In this case the Magistrate's Court proceedings reveal that the

Petitioner Respondent-Respondent was in actual possession of the

disputed premises. The learned Magistrate has correctly stated that

he declares the Respondent Petitioner is entitled to possession of the

land and premises which is the subject matter of this dispute. I am of

the view that the Petitioner Respondent's documents which had

been filed by the Petitioner as P13 and P14 were correctly

considered by the learned Magistrate. The Appellants main

contention is that the possession of the subject matter by the

Appellant has not been correctly considered by the learned Primary

Court Judge. Appellants position is that they were in possession of

the land and premises two months prior to the filing of the first

Information under Section 68 of the Primary Courts Procedure Act.

But the Appellants have failed to prove their position in this case. The

Respondents marked documents (P13 and P14) reveal that the

Respondent was in possession of the disputed land two months prior

to filing of First Information. Therefore the learned High Court Judge

had given due consideration to Section 68 of the Primary Courts

Procedure Act and affirmed the learned Magistrate's Order.

4

I shall now deal with the grounds urged by the learned Counsel

for the Petitioner-Respondent Resp ondent-Respondent's argument

in the High Court was that the Appellant had not proved any

exceptional circumstances which constitute grave miscarriage of

justice to revise the impugned order of the learned High Court Judge

of Nuwara Eliya.

In this regard I would like to cite the following authorities:

Kanakalingam vs Jeatheeswaram and others - 2009 1 SLR

152, it was held "The Primary Court not deciding an issue finally

whatever the order that a Primary Court Judge shall make would be

temporary in nature."

In Warapragasam vs Emanuel - CA 931/84 it was held "It is

now settled law that the power of Revision vested in the Court of

Appeal is a discretionary remedy. The practice is not to exercise the

power of Revision when any other or alternate remedy is available for

the reason that is a discretionary remedy vested in court and it is

exercised when the Applicant has no other remedy. But it is also now

settled law that the revisionary power would be exercised even

though there is an alternate remedy only if there is the existence of

exceptional circumstances are shown necessitating the indulgence by

court to exercise its discretionary remedy of Revision. IJ

In Devi Property Development (Pvt) limited and another vs

Lanka Medicals (Pvt) Ltd., CA. 518/1 decided on 20.06.2001 it was

held "Revision is an extraordinary jurisdiction vested in Court to be

i

i

5

exercised under exceptional circumstancesJ if no other remedies are

available. n

After analyzing the above laid down principles I am of the view

the Appellant who sought the revisionary jurisdiction of the High

Court has an alternative remedy. Further I have gone through the

proceedings before the High Court and note that the Respondent

Appellants have not established an exceptional circumstances in the

High Court. Further I am of the opinion if the: Appellant had

dissatisfied with the decision of the learned Magistrate he could have

filed a civil case in the District Court. The Appellant who sought the

revisionary jurisdiction of the High Court has an alternative remedy in

this case. There is no miscarriage of justice whatsoever. Therefore, I

am of the view that the learned High Court Judge of Nuwara Eliya

had come to the correct conclusion by his order and refused to set

aside the said order in revision.

For the above reasons, I affirm the judgment of the learned

High Court Judge dated 28.06.2011 and the learned Magistrate's

judgment on 30.07.2010.

Appeal is dismissed without costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Salam J., -I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAl.

t ..