==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL

OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

NO.C.A/TAX/I0/2010

& NO.CA/TAX/18/2013

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Ceylon Steel Corporation Limited

[Formerly known as Ceylon Heavy

Industries & Construction Co. Ltd] Oruwala, Athurugiriya.

Appellant

Vs

Commissioner General of Inland Revenue Department of Inland Revenue Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha Colombo 02.

Respondent

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J

L.T.B.DEHIDENIYA, J

Shivaji Felix for the Petitioner

Anusha Samaraayake SSC with Chaya Sri Nammuni SC

for the Respondent

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN

SUBMISSIONS

FILED ON

DECIDED ON

09.06.2015

04.06.2015 by the Petitioner

04.06.2015 by the Respondents

06.08.2015

1

i

I' )

I I

~ I

~ I 1 1 I I

~ I t i 1 I I i ! I i l

j

CHITRASIRI, J.

These two cases which bear the Nos.CA/TAX/10/2010 and

CA/TAX/ 18/2013 have been transmitted to this Court in terms of Section 170 of

the Inland Revenue Act No.10 of 2006 seeking for an opinion to the questions of

law mentioned in the "case stated" formulated by the Board of Review and the Tax

Appeals Commission respectively. The case bearing No.CA/TAX/10/2010 had

been sent by the Board of Review that was in existence then whilst the case

bearing No.CA/TAX/18/2013 had been sent by the Tax Appeals Commission

established under the Tax Appeals Commission Act No.23 of 2011.

Both matters were heard together since the parties, the legal issues

and the questions of law involved in the two matters are identical. It was decided

so, on the request and with the consent of the parties. Accordingly, with the view

of forming an opinion, in terms of Section 170(6) of the Act No.10 of 2006, this

Court considered the questions of law raised in the "case stated". The questions

of law to which the opinion was sought are as follows:

(i) Has the Board of Review /Tax Appeals Commission erred in law by coming

to the conclusion that the appellant was not entitled to a tax exemption

under and in terms of its agreement with the Board of Investment of Sri

Lanka in respect of its profits of the sale of imported steel wire?

2

(ii) Has the Board of Review jTax Appeals Commission erred in law in coming

to the conclusion that the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka does not

possess the power to review the scope and the terms and conditions of

agreements entered into by it?

(iii) In view of the facts and circumstances of the case, is the decision of the

Board of Review jTax Appeals Commission regarding the tax exempt

status of the appellant against the weight of evidence?

The first question of law relates to income tax exemption granted to the

appellant company under the Agreement bearing No.72 dated 07.05.1998,

attested by C.M. Jayawardena Notary Public. The said exemption referred to in

Clause 10(1) in the aforesaid agreement reads thus:

10. In accordance with and subject to the powers conferred on the Board

under Section 17 of the said Law No.4 of 1978 and regulations that may

be applicable thereto the following benefits and/or exemptions and/or

privileges are hereby granted to the Enterprise in connection with

and/or in relation to the said business.

(1) For a period of ten (10) years reckoned from the year of

Assessment as may be determined by the Board (hereinafter

referred to as "the said tax exemption period") the provisions of

the Inland Revenue Act No.28 of 1979 relating to the imposition,

payment and recovery of income tax in respect of the profits and

3

{

I I I !

~ I j

income of the Enterprise shall not apply to the profits and income

of the Enterprise.

(2) ...

(emphasis added)

The Board of Investment has exercised its powers conferred on it

under Section 17 of the Board of Investment Law of Sri Lanka No. 4 of 1978 as

amended and afforded the appellant company, the tax exemptions referred to

above. Accordingly, it had executed the said agreement bearing No.72, making

the appellant company a party. Hence, it is seen that the appellant company had

been exempted from payment of income tax in respect of the profits and income

derived by it from its commercial activities that has connection with and/ or in

relation to the business of the company.

Learned Counsel for the appellant having relied upon the aforesaid

phrase" benefits and/or exemptions and/or privileges are hereby granted to

the Enterprise in connection with and/or in relation to the said business",

strenuously submitted that importation and sale of steel wire which is commonly

known as "stirrups" has connection and/ or it relates to the main business of the

appellant company. It is to be noted that the main business of the appellant

company was manufacturing of rolled wire and founding steel products.

Accordingly, learned Counsel for the appellant contended that that the appellant

company is entitled to claim tax exemption under clause 10(1) of the aforesaid

agreement bearing No.72.

4

In support of his contention, learned Counsel for the appellant has

heavily relied upon an opinion expressed by Professor W.P.S. Dias who is a Senior

Professor in Steel Engineering and a Chartered Structural Engineer of the

Department of Civil Engineering in the University of Moratuwa. The said opinion

expressed by Prof.Dias in his letter dated 05.02.2009 is as follows:

"The tor steel manufactured by this company is used widely in the

construction industry. The company also supplies 6 mm steel wire to

the construction industry. The 6 mm steel wire is used as stirrups or

links in order to form a ((cage" of reinforcement together with the tor

steel bars. As such, given that most consultants specify 6 mm steel

for these links and stirrups, and since such 6 mm steel is the

most widely used form of links or stirrups, the construction industry

would not be able to use for steel bars without the 6 mm steel."

Certainly, opinion as to the link between manufacture of rolled wire

and steel products with that of steel wire known as stirrups, of such an expert

cannot be disregarded. However, it is important to note that there had been a

specific background for the BOI to grant such a tax exemption to the appellant

company. Consideration to afford the tax exemption by the BOI was kicked off,

upon a request made by the appellant company by its letters dated 15.11.1996

and 01.04.1998. Request made in those two letters were to seek approval to

modernize and upgrade the company's existing factory at Athurugiriya.

5

Therefore, the exemptions that were sought by the appellant could be applied

only to the matters connected with modernizing and upgrading the factory at

Athurugiriya of the appellant company. This position is clearly seen even in the

recital to the aforesaid Agreement bearing No. 72. The said recital reads thus:

"WHEREAS the Enterprise which is presently carrying on the business

of manufacture of rolled wire and founding, steel products at its factory

at Athurugiriya made an application on 15th November, 1996 and

subsequent letter dated 1 st April 1998 seeking approval to modernize

and upgrade the existing factory at Athurugiriya (hereinafter

referred to as "the said business") on the land and premises at

Athurugiriya morefully described in the First Schedule hereto

(hereinafter referred to as "the said land and premises") and situated

outside the Area of Authority of the Board. "

(emphasis added)

Needless to say that import and sale of stirrups will have no bearing to

modernize and upgrade the appellant's factory at Athurugiriya. Admittedly, the

appellant company has made profits by importing and selling stirrups even

though such an activity does not relate to modernize and upgrade the existing

factory at Athurugiriya. Therefore, I must clearly mention that the tax

exemptions referred to in clause 10(1) in the agreement 72 is applicable and also

is restricted to the claims that do come within the purpose for which the very

6

I

)!I

Bf

JIi

same agreement was executed. It is more so when looking at the matters that led

to grant such an exemption to the appellant company.

Therefore, it is my considered VIew that the import and sale of

stirrups by the appellant does not cover the purpose for which the agreement 72

was entered into. Accordingly, it is seen that the appellant company is not

entitled to claim tax benefits for sale of stirrups under the agreement though the

ordinary meaning may lead to show that it has connection between stirrups and

manufacturing of rolled wire and founding steel products. Hence, it is clear that

the exemptions referred to in the Agreement bearing No.72 does not extent to

import and sale of stirrups since it has no bearing to the very purpose of

entering into the Agreement bearing No72. In the circumstances, it is my opinion

that the exemption Clause 10 (1) in the Agreement bearing No.72 will not apply

when determining tax liability of the appellant for the income derived from

import and sale of stirrups.

Learned Counsel for the appellant has referred to many authorities

including that of In Re Nanaimo Community Hotel Ltd [1994] 4 DLR 638

(cited approvingly in Emery V Inland Revenue Commissioners [1981] STC

150 at page 171 and V.A.Vasumathi V CIT [1980] 123 ITR 94 (KER) to show

the connection between the stirrups and manufacture of rolled wire. In, In Re

Nanaimo (supra) McFarlane J in the Supreme Court of British Columbia

stated as follows:

7

IIIi f ! ,

I i ! Ir

J

~

I , , IIIf

I

1 I I f

1 I I 1 1 j ! I t

1 I ! i ! I t 1 ! 1 I

j I ! I I

'i.

\j

" One of the very generally accepted meanings of "connexion" is

"relation between things one of which is bound up with or

involved in another"; or again, "having to do with". The words

include matters occurring prior to as well as subsequent to or

consequent upon so long as they are related to the principal

thing. The phrase "having to do with" perhaps gives as good a

suggestion of the meaning as could be had."

In the case of Vasumathi (supra) it was held that the words "in

connection with such transfer" means intrinsically related to the transfer. All

those authorities explain the connection between the stirrups and manufacture

of rolled wire. However, as mentioned hereinbefore, it is not possible to rely on

such an interpretation in this instance since the tax benefit claimed by the

appellant company can be determined only by looking at the purpose to which

the Agreement was entered into and also upon considering the totality of the

Agreement bearing No.72.

At this stage, it is also pertinent to note that sub clause (VII) of Clause

(10) in the Agreement bearing No.72 refers to an exemption from custom duty as

well. It has granted tax exemption for the appellant company for its imports only

for a period of 3 years. Therefore, it is seen that the exemptions referred to in the

Agreement bearing No.72 contains special provisions when it comes to the import

duty exemptions. The claim in this instance too involves imports. Therefore, any

claim that has connection to importation of goods by the appellant shall govern by

8

II

I!

!f

~.

the said clause 10 (VII). Accordingly, it is my opinion that the Clause 10(1) in the

Agreement bearing No.72 does not permit the appellant to claim income tax

exemption for the import of stirrups.

Hence, it is seen that the tax exemptions for the income and profits

from sale of stirrups cannot be claimed under clause 10(1) of the agreement 72.

For the reasons set out hereinbefore, I answer the first question of law in favour of I !

the respondent. I

The next question is whether the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka did I

i l l I I

possess the power to review scope and the terms and conditions of the

Agreement bearing No.72. In this instant, the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka

by letter dated 09.04.1998 has approved the tax concession requested by the

appellant company. The Board of Review/Tax Appeals Commission was of the

terms and conditions of the said Agreement. The said letter of the BOI is as

t Il

view that the Board of Investment had no power to review the scope and the

follows:

J "According to your submissions on the above matter, the wire rods are a

necessary component for the sale of steel products manufactured by

I

CHICO.

Therefore, sale of wire rods will qualify for tax exemption under Sec. 1 0

of the said agreement. !i t

f: Yours faithfully,

, I 9 I

1

J

1 I

Sgd/ ............. . It ! A.M. C.Kulasekera

;

I

Deputy Director General (Investment)

Board of Investment of Sri Lanka"

I! Admittedly, the decision referred to in that letter had been made upon

considering only the submissions made by the appellant company. Respondent Ii

!

I

did not have the opportunity to counter those submissions. Therefore, even if the

contents in the said letter are taken into consideration, such an opinion that was

I formed without hearing the interested parties may not reflect the correct Iinterpretation of the Agreement No.72.

More importantly, it is the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue

Revenue Act. He is not bound by the opinions expressed by the Board of

!

\

that has the power and authority to implement the provisions of the Inland

Investment of Sri Lanka when it comes to determining tax liability under the law.

Therefore, it is not incorrect to decide that the Board of Investment does not

possess the power to review the scope and the terms and conditions of the

Agreement bearing No.72. Hence, the answer to the question No.2 also is in

favour of the respondent.

The remaInmg question is to consider whether the decision of the

Board of Review/Tax Appeals Commission was against the weight of the

10

evidence. The aforementioned discussion in relation to the first two

questions of law mentioned in the "case stated" speak to itself that the Board

of Review jTax Appeals Commission has carefully considered the terms and

conditions of the Agreement bearing No.72.

Such a view will become more strengthen when looking at the reasons

assigned by the members of the Board of Review and the Tax Appeals

Commission in their respective determinations. The Board of Review in its

determination made on 05.02.2010 has stated as follows:-

"Now we are of the view that the imported steel wire did not have the

necessary nexus with the manufacture of rolled wire and founding steel

products. Commercial definition of manufacture is to process or make (a

product) from a raw material especially as a large scale operation using

machinery. The agreement covered the incentives granted/ available to the

enterprise for the additional investment made for the modernization and

upgrading of the factory at Athurugiriya. These tax incentives are

available for the investment made (i.e. upgrading and modernization of

factory at Athurugiriya). Therefore the above submission of the appellant

has no merit as the imported steel wire is not used in the factory for

commercial production purposes. In connection with and/or in relation to

the said business should read as in connection with and/ or in relation to

manufacture of steel in the factory at Athurugiriya. "

11

f I I !

\ ,I I

I

I

\

III

Tax Appeals Commission in its determination has mentioned thus:

"The Respondent contends that for the company to import steel wire for

sale implies that the company has not engaged in the manufacture of this

kind of wire in its factory at Athurugiriya. The steel wire was not imported

for use in the process of manufacture of the tor steel bars or in the

modernization and upgrading of the factory, but imported to enhance the

sale of tor steel bars manufactured by the company, and, therefore, is an

activity falling outside the scope of the Agreement. Tax exemption is

granted by the Agreement only for the investment made for modernizing

and upgrading the business of manufacture of rolled wire and founding

steel products. The import and sale of steel wire is, therefore, not an

activity which would attract exemption from income tax on the profits and

income derived from such sale. The Appellant had claimed tax exemption

in respect of the entire business income of Rs.638,857,939/- by virtue of

Clause 10 of Agreement with the BO!. However, the Assessor who

examined the audited accounts of the company identified that this sum

included income from the sale of imported steel wire which was liable to

tax and the assessment was issued accordingly. The Assessor issued the

assessment on the ground that profit attributable to the sale of imported

steel wire was estimated to be Rs.28,791,117/-. However, according to

the submissions made by the Respondent, it was later agreed between the

parties that the net profit derived from the sale of imported steel wire was,

only Rs.ll,045,613/ -."

12

f i f II

I

t IIJ ,

•

Upon considering the matters contained in the two preceding

paragraphs, it is clear that the Board of Review as well as the Tax Appeals

Commission in their determinations have carefully looked at the evidence before

them when they arrived at their respective decisions. Therefore, I am of the

opinion that the decisions of those two institutions on the question of income tax

exemption referred to in the Agreement bearing No.72 show that the members of

the respective institutions have considered and evaluated the relevant evidence

placed before them, carefully when arriving at their respective decisions.

As mentioned before in this judgment, this Court is of the opinion that

all three questions of law referred to in the "Case Stated" should be answered in

the negative. Accordingly, the Registrar of this Court is directed to return the

records maintained before the relevant tribunals along with the opinion of this

Court expressed hereinbefore, to the Tax Appeals Commission.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

L. T .B.DEHIDENIYA, J

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

13