==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI

LANKA

C.A.Appeal No. 19/2010

lnduruwe Arachchige Dickson alias Kapila

Bappa.

2/40, Perakum Mawatha, Ethiwewa,

( Now in remand prison)- Moneragala.

Accused-Appellant

High Court Monaragala No.1/2009

-Vs-

Republic of Sri Lanka

Respondent

Before: Sisira .J. de Abrew, J &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J

1

Counsel:

Argued &

Decided on:

Sisira. J. de Abrew, J

Udaya Bandara for the Accused-Appellant.

Ms. Varunika Hettige SSC for the Respondents.

14.06.2013.

***

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted for committing grave

sexual abuse on a boy named Thelhawadi Durayalage Suresh Palitha and was

sentenced to a term of 10 years Rigorous Imprisonment, to pay a fine of Rs.

5000/- carrying a default sentence of 07months Rigorous Imprisonment, and to

pay a sum of Rs. 10,000/- as compensation to the victim carrying a default

sentence of 01 year Rigorous Imprisonment. Being aggrieved by the said

conviction and the sentence the accused-appellant has appealed to this Court.

2

Learned counsel appearing for the accused-appellant does not challenge

the conviction but pleads in mitigation to reduce the sentence. He submits that

the sentence imposed by the learned trial judge is excessive. He further cites the

judgment of the Supreme Court in Case No. 3/2008. The learned State Counsel

submits that the sentence is reasonable and the facts of SC No. 3/08 are not

applicable to this case but she concedes the position that the Court has power to

impose a sentence at its discretion notwithstanding the minimum sentence

prescribed by law. This situation has been clearly stated in the said judgment of

the Supreme Court.

According to the facts of this case the accused-appellant has inserted his

penis into the anus of the victim. He has suffered injuries as a result of the sexual

act done by the accused-appellant. According to the medical report the victim

has sustained a fresh injury in the anus. Dr. has observed a tear in the anus at

7 0' clock position. When the accused-appellant was committing the act, the

mother of the victim has come to the place where the incident took place. When

the accused-appellant opened the door the victim had run away from the place

3

in order to go to the toilet. When the mother questioned, the victim boy

immediately complained to the mother of what happened.

When we consider the evidence, we are of the opinion that the learned

trial judge has rightly convicted the accused-appellant.

I now advert to the question of sentence. The victim was, at the time of

the incident, an eleven year old boy and the accused-appellant was, at the time

of the incident a 22 year old man. At the time of the incident the accused was

unmarried.

When we consider the age of the accused-appellant at the time of the

incident, we decide to reduce the sentence. In our view the sentence of 10 years

is little excessive. We therefore set aside the sentence of 10 years R.l and impose

a term of 07 years R.l.

4

We direct the Prison Authorities to implement the sentence from the date

of conviction (namely 15.03.2010). The fine and the compensation ordered by

the learned trial judge remain una·ltered. Subject to the above variation of the

sentence appeal of the accused-appellant is dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Kpm/-

5