==== BLOCKS ==== 

\ 1 i

,

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 960 / 2000 (F)

D.C. Gampaha No. 31377/ L

Kuruppu Appuhamillage Premawathie Kuruppu, No. 153, Kurikotuwa, Veyangoda.

Plaintiff Vs.

1. Kuruppu Appuhamillage Navaratna, No. 98, Udugama, Veyangoda. 2. Mohoppu Arachchillage Ananda Samarasinghe, Udugama, Veyangoda. 3. Wijesinghe Liyana Pathirennehelage Malani Wijesinghe, Udugama, Veyangoda.

Defendants

And Now Between

Kuruppu Appuhamillage Premawathie Kuruppu, No. 153, Kurikotuwa, Veyangoda.

P I aintiff-Appellant Vs

1. Kuruppu Appuhamillage Navaratna, No. 98, Udugama, Veyangoda. 2. Mohoppu Arachchillage Ananda Samarasinghe, Udugama, Veyangoda. 3. Wijesinghe Liyana Pathirennehelage Malani Wijesinghe, U dugama, Veyangoda.

Defendant -Respondent

lf

t

~ i

\

,

2

BEFORE UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

COUNSEL Plaintiff Appellant - Absent and

Unrepresented

1 st and 3 rd Defendant Respondents -

Absent and Unrepresented

2nd Defendant Respondent is present

before court

DECIDED ON 13.05.2014

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

The Plaintiff Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant)

instituted an action against the 1 st to 3 rd Defendants in the District Court of

Gampaha seeking for a declaration of title to the land described in the 3rd schedule

to the plaint and to eject the Defendants from the said land. The Defendants filed

an answer denying the averments contained in the plaint and praying for a

dismissal of the Respondent's action. The case proceeded to trial upon 10 issues.

After trial, the learned District Judge has dismissed the Appellant's action. Being

aggrieved by the said judgment dated 07.11.2000 the Appellant has preferred the

present appeal to this court.

In paragraph 09 of the petition of appeal the Appellant has set out

several grounds of appeal. He has urged that the judgment is contrary to the law

and against the weight of the evidence and the learned District Judge has failed to

evaluate the evidence adduced on behalf of the Appellant. I have examined the

f ! ! \ !

f

I. f t! If

~ , i I

II!

! tIl!

f I

!

i t

I

I

I

3

evidence led at the trial and the impugned judgment. I am of the view that the

Appellant has failed to prove his case on a balance of probability. Hence I see no

reason to interfere with the judgement of the learned District Judge dated

07.11.2000. Therefore I dismiss the appeal of the Appellant without costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

I

J f I

f }