==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A. (PHC) No.102/2001 P.H.C. Galle No.09/2000(Rev) M.C. Udugama Case No.65643

Jeevantha Senarathna Homadola Watta, Udugama. Galabada Gamage Wasantha Scotland Watta, Udugama. Ranjith Thilak Wanniarachchi Mavidola watta, Bar Handiya, Udugama.

Respondent - Appellant Vs.

Hon. Attorney General Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12, Officer - in- Charge, Police Station, Udugama.

Plaintiff - Respondents

C.A. (PHC)No.102/2001

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED AND

DECICED ON

K. T. CHITRASIRI, J

P.H.C. Galle No.09/2000(Rev)

M.C. Udugama Case No.65643

K. T. CHITRASIRI, J &

W.M.M.MALINIE GUNARATNE, J.

Manohara de Silva P.C. with Hirosha

Munasinghe for the 3rd respondent-petitioner-appellant.

J.P. Gamage for the 1st and 2nd respondent-

respondent-respondents.

28th October 2014.

*******

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases.

1

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the decisions dated 30th

January 2001 and the 10th February 2000 of the learned High Court

Judge and of the learned Magistrate respectively. Outcome of those two

decisions of the learned Judges was to hand over possession of the land

in question to the 1 st and the 2nd respondent-respondent-respondents.

(hereinafter referred to as the 1 st and the 2nd respondents) Admittedly,

those two respondents were representing the Stockland Estate in

U dugama, for the purposes of this action filed in the Primary Court of

1,

2

Udugama in terms of the provisions contained in the Primary Courts'

Procedure Act No.44 of 1979, they being the Superintendent and the

Assistant Superintendent of the said Estate.

Learned Primary Court Judge by his order dated 10th February

2000 decided that the 1 st and the 2nd respondents had been dispossessed

from the premises in dispute within two months prior to the filing of

information in Court. In coming to the said conclusion the learned

Primary Court Judge has considered the observations made by the

police and the matters contained in the affidavits filed by the respective

parties. (Vide at page 117 in the appeal brief).

When the reVlSIOn application filed in the High Court by the

appellant seeking to have the order of the Learned Magistrate set aside,

the learned High Court Judge too has considered the merits of the

application and decided in the same manner as decided by the learned

Magistrate and has dismissed the revision application.

When the matter was taken up before this Court, learned

President's Counsel for the appellant contended that it is incorrect to

3

rely upon the observations made by the police. He also argued that

when the material before the trial Judge as to the possession of the

respective parties become equally balanced, then the Magistrate may

consider the title to the land in question as well when making an order

in an application filed under Section 66 of the Primary Courts' Procedure

Act. In support of his contention, he relied upon the decision in the

case of Ramalingam vs. Thangarajah. (1982 2 S.L.R. page 693 at

699) Hence, we shall now turn to consider the merits of this case to

ascertain whether the material including the evidence produced by the

respective parties as to the possession of the land in question is equally

balanced or not.

The 3rd respondent-petitioner-appellant in his undated affidavit

has stated that he is having title to this land by a deed attested by

Mapalagama Wimalaratne, Notary Public. The aforesaid deed is found

at page 265 in the appeal brief and it is a deed of gift by which the

property subjected to in that deed had been gifted to the 3rd respondent-

petitioner-appellant. The Donor to that deed is his mother Somawathie.

In the schedule to that deed, it is stated that the donor became entitled

to the land by way of possession she had over a period of 50 years. It is

significant to note that such a chain of title is usually narrated not in the

schedule to the deed but in the body of the deed. Be that as it may, it is

4

to be noted that in the affidavit of the 3rd respondent-petitioner-

appellant, (vide at page 108 in the appeal brief) he has failed to refer to

any documentary evidence to establish the manner in which he

possessed this land. It is the aforesaid deed of gift that is being referred

to which has been executed two months before he filed this private

plaint in the Primary Court of Udugama.

On the other hand, the 1 st and the 2nd respondents in their

affidavits have stated that the documents marked 1V1 to 1V14 also

have been tendered in addition to the other evidence they have produced

to support the possession claimed on behalf of the Stockland Estate.

The documents marked 1V3 and 1V4 indicate several items that were

inside the house that had been handed over by the person as an

employee of the Estate who came into occupation of that house situated

on the premises in question. Documents marked 1 V8 and 1 V9 namely,

the electricity bills also have been tendered to Court to show that the

Stockland Estate has paid the electricity bills to a house found on this

land. In the affidavits of the 1 st and the 2nd respondents, they have

clearly stated that those are the electricity bills pertaining to the house in

question. That evidence has not been objected or denied by the

respondents. Therefore, the matters contained in the electricity bills,

those being part and parcel of the affidavit of the 1 st and the 2nd

5

respondents, cannot be rejected. The document marked 1 VI0 shows

that there had been a quotation prepared to effect repairs by the

Stockland Estate to this particular house.

The contents of those documents cannot be rejected SInce

those have been marked as part and parcel of the affidavit of the 18t and

the 2nd respondents. Therefore, it is clear that the 18t and the 2nd

respondents have established that they were in possession of this

premises for a considerable period of time prior to the filing of

information in the Primary Court of Udugama. Accordingly, it is

abundantly clear that the 18t and the 2nd respondents have produced

much more evidence than the 3rd respondent-petitioner-appellant as to

the possession of the land in question. Hence, I am of the view that the

law referred to in Ramalingam vs. Thangarajah(Supra) is not applicable

in this instance though the learned President's Counsel was of the view

that it is applicable.

The complaint made to the police by the 18t respondent

Jeewantha Senaratne shows that the 3rd respondent has taken over the

possession of the house situated on the land in dispute on the 22nd May

1999. In that complaint, he has stated that a padlock had been placed

l

6 !

on to the door of the said house preventing the 1 st and the 2nd

respondents entering into the house. As a result, the 1 st and the 2nd

respondents had been dispossessed. In that complaint made by the 1 st

respondent, he also has stated that he saw the wife of the 3rd

respondent been present inside the house. The 2nd respondent too has

made a complaint to the same effect. Pursuant to those complaints, the

police had filed the information in the Primary Court. The Officer-in-

Charge of the Police Station Udugama has also stated that the police

have filed a criminal action as well, charging the 3rd respondent for

trespassing into the aforesaid house found in the premises in suit. (Vide

at page 197 in the appeal brief). The number in that case is B238/99.

The aforesaid circumstances show that the 1 st and the 2nd

respondents, they being the employees of the Stockland Estate, were

having control and actual possession of the land in dispute until they

were dispossessed on the 23rd May1999 by placing a padlock on to the

door of the house situated at the premises in suit. Accordingly, it is clear

that overwhelming evidence is forthcoming to establish that the

premises in suit was under the control and possession of the persons

managing the Stockland Estate until they were dispossessed on the 23rd

May 1999 by the acts of the 3rd respondent. Law relevant to such a

7

situation is found in Section 68(3) of the Primary Courts' Procedure Act.

It reads thus:-

(( any person who had been in possession of the land or part

of the land has been forcibly dispossessed within a period

of two months immediately before the date on which the

information was filed under Section 66, it is the duty of the

Primary Court Judge to make an order directing that the

party dispossessed be restored to possession, prohibiting all

disturbances of such possession otherwise that is under the

authority of an order or decree of a competent Court. "

The circumstances described herein before show that the

2nd and the 3rd respondents had been dispossessed by the acts of the

1 st respondent from the premises in suit within a period of two months

prior to the filing of information in Court.

Accordingly, it is clear that the learned Magistrate has

correctly evaluated the material before Court and has applied the law

relevant thereto, by making an order to hand over possession to the 1 st

and the 2nd respondents of the land subjected to in this action.

Therefore, it is evident that the learned Magistrate and the learned High

Court Judge have correctly decided the issue.

8

In the circumstances, we are not inclined to interfere with

the decisions of those two learned Judges. For the aforesaid reasons

this appeal is dismissed with costs fIxed at Rs.I00, 000/=.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M.MALINIE GUNARATNE, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Kwk/-