==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 927 I 2000 F

D.C. Avissawella No. 20342 I M

Liyanagamaralalage Saman Ratnawardena, Doranuwa, Ruwanwella.

Vs.

Plaintiff

1. Kambakara Nekathige Sirisena, 2. Kambakara Nekathige Hemapala, 3. J othiratna Ganithayalage Gunapala, 4. Kambakara N ekathige Maitripala, 5. Kambakara Nekathige Sumathipala, 6. Kambakara Nekathige Dayapala, 7. Kambakara Nekathige Thilakasoma, All ofDehiowita, Debegama.

Defendants

AND NOW BETWEEN

1. Kambakara Nekathige Sirisena, 2. Kambakara N ekathige Hemapala, 3. J othiratna Ganithayalage Gunapala, 4. Kambakara Nekathige Maitripala, 5. Kambakara Nekathige Sumathipala, 6. Kambakara N ekathige Dayapala, 7. Kambakara Nekathige Thilakasoma, All of Dehiowita, Debegama.

Defendant Appellants

BEFORE

COUNSELS

2

Vs

Liyanagamaralalage Saman Ratnawardena, Doranuwa, Ruwanwella.

Plaintiff Respondent

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

Defendant Appellants - Absent and

unrepresented

T. Weragoda for the Plaintiff Respondent

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS ON: 06.02.2012

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

04.09.2012

01.04.2013

The Plaintiff Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the Respondent)

instituted the said action against the Defendant Appellants (hereinafter referred to

as the Appellants) in the District Court of A vissawelle seeking to recover a sum of

Rs. 103,000/- which had been paid to the Appellants by the Respondent in order to

purchase 11 jack trees. The Appellants filed answer praying for a dismissal of the

Respondent's action. The case proceeded to trial on 11 issues. After trial the

learned District Judge has delivered a judgment in favour of the Respondent. Being

aggrieved by the said judgment dated 13 .11.2000 the Appellants have appealed to

this court.

3

According to the facts of the case an agreement had been entered into

between the Respondent and the Appellants to purchase 11 jack trees from the

Appellants. Said agreement dated 27.03.1996 had been produced at the trial

marked P 1. It was the position of the Respondent that the Appellants did not have

title to the land mentioned in the said agreement and therefore the Appellants could

not fulfil the terms of the agreement.

At the trial the Respondent has closed his case leading the evidence of

the Respondent and one other witness. The Appellants have closed their case

without leading any evidence. Accordingly the Appellants have failed to prove

their position.

When I consider the said evidence of the Respondent I am of the view

that the learned District Judge has rightly concluded that the Respondent was

entitled for a judgment as prayed for in the plaint.

In the said circumstances I see no reason to interfere with the said

judgement of the learned District Judge dated 13.11.2000. Therefore I dismiss the

appeal of the Appellants with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal