==== BLOCKS ==== 

1 1

; ,.' i I

i I 1 l 1 I , !

I 1 i ! j i i

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 13 12000 (F)

D.C. Avissawella No. 202251 L

Hinguralakande Pagngnaloka Thero, Viharadhipathi, Wickckremaraja Vihara, Mudugamuwa, Ruwanwella.

Plaintiff Vs.

1. Maththamagoda Pagngnasekare Thero Viharadhipathi, Sri Nagabodhi Purana Vihara, Doranuwa, Ruwanwella. 2. Pelpita Pagngnaratana Thero, Viharadhipathi, Giriwangarama Vihara, Hingurala, Dehi Owita. 3. Malmaduwe Pagngnalankara Thero, Sri Vivekaramadhipathi, Deegala, Dehi Ow ita.

Defendants

And Now Between

1. Maththamagoda Pagngnasekare Thero Viharadhipathi, Sri Nagabodhi Purana Vihara, Doranuwa, Ruwanwella. 2. Pelpita Pagngnaratana Thero, Viharadhipathi, Giriwangarama Vihara, Hingurala, Deh i Owita. 3. Malmaduwe Pagngnalankara Thero, Sri Vivekaramadhipathi, Deegala, Dehi Owita.

Defendant-Appellants

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,l.

2

Vs

Hinguralakande Pagngnaloka Thero, Viharadhipathi, Wickckremaraja Vihara, Mudugamuwa, Ruwanwella.

Plaintiff -Respondent

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, 1.

1 st 2nd & 3 I'd Defendant Appellants -

Absent and Unrepresented

Daya Guruge for the Plaintiff

Respondent

21.02.2014

22.05.2014

The Plaintiff Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the Respondent)

instituted an action against the 1 st to 3rd Defendant Appellants (hereinafter referred

to as the Appellants) in the District Court of A vissawella seeking for a declaration

that he is the controlling viharadhipathi of Mudugamuwa Wickckremaraja Vihara,

Ruwanwella. The Appellants filed an answer denying the avennents contained in

the plaint and praying for a dismissal of the Respondent's action. The case

proceeded to trial upon 07 issues. After trial, the learned Additional District Judge

j I j 1

I

J ! I I

t l

~

3

has delivered a judgement in favour of the Respondent. Being aggrieved by the

said judgment dated 17.12.1999 the Appellants have appealed to this court.

The Appellants have set out several grounds of appeal. It seems from

the petition of appeal that the main grievance of the Appellants was that the

learned District Judge has failed to interpret the relevant deed. I have examined the

said document, evidence led at the trial and the impugned judgment. I am of the

view that the Appellants have failed to prove their case on a balance of probability.

Hence I see no reason to interfere with the judgement of the learned Additional

District Judge dated 17.12.1999. Therefore I dismiss the appeal of the Appellants

with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal