==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DECMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA No.410/98 (F) D.C.Kuliyapitiya No.9026/P

Samarappuli Mudiyanselage Gunasekara Keethalahitiyawa, Yakwila.

Appellant Vs. R.A.Wijith Premalal Madigepola, Yakwila.

Respondent

C.A.No.410/98 (F)

Before

Counsel

Argued and Decided on

K. T. Chitrasisir ,J.

D.C.Kuliyapitiya No.9026/P

K.T.Chitrasiri,J.

M.C.Jayaratne with M.D.G.Bandara for the

Substituted-Plaintiff-Appellant.

1

P.M.Gunawardena for the 1st and 2nd Defendant-Respondents

18.02.2013.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the judgment dated

161611998 of the learned District Judge of Kuliyapitiya. By that

Judgment, learned Judge dismissed the plaint dated 07 I 4 I 1980.

Learned District Judge had raised two issues which bear the

numbers 9 and 1 0) while writing the judgment. She has answered those

two issues in favour of the defendants and then she has dismissed the

plaint.

'

2

Both counsel concede that a trial Judge has the power to frame

issues even while writing a judgment in terms of Section 149 of the Civil

Procedure Code. Therefore, nothing is wrong in framing these two issues

while writing the judgment.

However, learned Counsel for the appellant brings to the notice of

Court that the learned District Judge has answered the first issue

affirmatively and accordingly she had decided that the land sought to be

partitioned is depicted in plan 1565 dated 21 I 2 I 1989 which was marked

X at the trial. Having decided so and accepting the corpus without a

dispute, she has again raised two issues to determine whether the land

sought to be partitioned had been properly identified with reference to a

plan.

In fact the plan marked X, is the plan to show the corpus.

Therefore, learned District Judge is wrong when she, on her own, framed

two issues on the basis that the land to be partitioned was not shown

with reference to a plan, after concluding the hearing of the case.

Learned Counsel for the defendant-respondent has no submissions to

make on this point.

Having considered the above, it is clear that the learned

District Judge is wrong when she framed the two issues, in the manner

f! I

3

that it was framed having concluded the trial on the basis of the plan

1565 marked X. Moreover, the parties were not given an opportunity

even to make submissions on those two issues framed by the Court

itself. Therefore I am of the opinion that it is wrong to dismiss the action

on the basis of the answers given to the two issues framed by the judge

herself while writing the judgment having answered the first issue

affirmatively.

For the aforesaid reasons, I set aside the judgment dated

16/6/1998 of the learned District Judge of Kuliyapitiya. However, the

learned District Judge who is now functioning as the District Judge of

Kuliyapitya is free to adopt the evidence that had already been recorded

and to deliver the judgment accordingly, if both parties so agree. Appeal

allowed. No costs.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

WC/-

t !Ii t

!It !,If !i[ IitIIrI! !

t[l: 1III