==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

C.A.No.260108

H.C. GalleNo. HC 2674

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED AND

DECIDED ON

*************

M. Ganasundara

Accused-Appellant

Vs.

Hon. The Attorney General

Respondent

SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J. (ACTING PICA) &

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA, J.

M. Wanniappa for the accused-appellant.

Kapila Waidyaratne A.S.G. for the respondent.

20fu January, 2014

*************

SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J. (ACTING PICA)

1

Accused-appellant produced by the Prison Authorities is

present in Court.

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant and his brother Matiwalage

Mahindapala (2nd accused) were indicted for the murder of a man

2

named, Walitharage Niyathapala. Before the conclusion of the trial the

2nd accused, Matiwalage Mahindapala died. After trial the learned trial.

Judge by his judgment dated 11 th of December 2009 convicted the

accused-appellant for the offence of murder and sentenced to death.

Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence he has appealed

to this Court. The facts of this case may be briefly summarized as

follows:-

On the day of the incident after 6.00 p.m. the deceased

person Niyathapala and Rajapakshe after laying a foundation in the

village went to the nearby river to have a bath. While the deceased

person was bathing in the river, Rajapakshe heard the voices of both the

accused and the voice of the deceased person. Rajapakshe then saw the

2nd accused Mahindapala attacking the deceased person. At this time

the 1 st accused-appellant was also there. He witnessed this incident

from the other side of the river as the deceased person had already

swam across the river.

The deceased person's son Rasika, says that his father and

Rajapaksha went to the river for the purpose of bathing. Little later he

heard the voices of the 1 st accused-appellant, 2nd accused and his father.

His father was pleading not to attack him. Further, his father was

addressing them in the following language. "I have not done any wrong

3

thing to you". Rasika then saw the 1 st accused-appellant attacking the

deceased person with a weapon, length of which was 3 to 4 feet. He also

saw the 2nd accused attacking his father (the deceased person) with a

knife. When he shouted not to attack his father, the 1 st accused-

appellant chased after him saying that I would kill you too. He ran a

little distance and came back. Then he saw both the accused throwing

his father into the river. The incident was brought to the notice of the

priest in the village by both of them. According to Rajapaksha he saw the

incident around 7.30 p.m. But Rasika says he saw the incident around

6.30 p.m. Learned Counsel appearing for the accused-appellant

contends that if Rajapaksha saw the incident around 7.30 p.m. it was

not possible for Rasika to see the incident around 6.30 p.m.. I now

advert to this contention. Whether the time of incident was at 6.30 p.m.

or 7.30 p.m. there should have been light for them to identify. The

investigating police officer who went to the scene of crime to investigate

says that there was lamp post at this place and there was a light of

Somapala's house. The beams of both lights were spreading to the place

where the incident took place. Therefore, it is seen that there had been

sufficient light for the two witnesses to identify the accused-appellant.

When I consider all these matters I hold that the witnesses have

identified the accused-appellant and the 2nd accused. Therefore, the

difference of time spoken to by two witnesses is not a material

contradiction. The accused-appellant gave evidence and took up the

, . 4

position that on the day of the incident he was at Ratnapura. He first

said that he went to Ratnapura in the month of November. Later he said

that he went to Ratnapura on 8th of December. When the learned

prosecuting State Counsel suggested that he was lying he did not give

an answer. Further, when Rasika and Rajapaksha were giving evidence,

learned defence Counsel who appeared for the accused-appellant at the

trial did not suggest to them that the accused-appellant was on that

day at Ratnapura. I therefore hold that the learned trial Judge was

correct when he rejected the evidence of the accused-appellant. When I

consider the evidence led at the trial, I hold the view that the prosecution

has proved the case beyond reasonable doubt. I therefore, refuse to

interfere with the judgment of the learned trial Judge. I affirm the

conviction and sentence and dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA, J.

I agree.

J

I

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Kwk/=

!I

I ;