==== BLOCKS ==== 

,

f t , i I I I 1 ! I I ! 1 ,1 I I .. " I f % I 1 j j l f

~ i i 1 , I

",

i i j I

j 1 1 1 j

J

-I 1 I 1

~

•

;,

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 351 /95 F

D.C. Colombo No. 10455/ MR

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Hawker Siddley Power Engineering Ltd, No. 18/ 1, Alfred Place, Colombo 03.

Plaintiff Vs.

National Insurance Corporation Ltd, No. 47, Muttiah Road, Colombo 02 .

Defendant

And Now Between

National Insurance Corporation Ltd, No. 47, Muttiah Road,

Colombo 02.

Defendant-Appellant lanashakthi Insurance Co. Ltd., No. 47, Muttiah Road,

Colombo 02.

Substituted Defendant-Appellant

Vs

Hawker Siddley Power Engineering Ltd, No. 18/ 1, Alfred Place, Colombo 03.

SISIRA DE ABREW J. and

UPALY ABEYRATHNE J.

Plaintiff -Respondent

Nigel Hatch PC with Ms. P. Abeywickrema for the Substituted

Defendant Appellant

Harsha Amarasekera for the Plaintiff Respondent

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPAL Y ABEYRA THNE, .T.

26.07.2010

28.01.2011

2

" The Plaintiff instituted an action in the District Court of Colombo seeking a

judgment, on the first cause of action, for recovery of a sum of Rs. 3 million with interest thereon

and on the second cause of action, for recovery of a sum of Rs. 1 million with interest lL.'1d for a

mandatory interim injunction directing the Defendant to pay the PlaintifI a sum of Rs. 3 million

forthwith. The Defendant has filed his answer praying for a dismissal of the Plaintiff's action.

The case proceeded to trial upon 07 issues. The learned District Judge after trial delivered

judgment in favour of the Plaintiff. Being aggrieved by the said judgment dated 24.02.1995 the

Defendant Appellant (hereinafter refen'ed to as the Appellant) prefen'ed the instant appeal to this

court.

The facts of the case are briefly as follows; The Plaintiff Respondent (hereinafter

referred to as the Respondent) had entered in to a contract with B.L. Power Construction Ltd.

(BLPC) as per purchase order No S 1174 dated 07.10.1988 for installation of underground power

cables in the city of Colombo for a sum of Rs. 30 million. The Respondent required BLPC to

furnish the Respondent with an On Demand Bank Guarantee prior to the entering of the

agreement. On the request of BLPC the Appellant had agreed to furnish the Respondent with an

on demand Advance Payment Bond and a Performance Bond. The Respondent had agreed to

accept the Appellant's guarantee and indemnity in lieu of Rs. 3 million being 10% of the total

value of the order payable as advance to BLPC in terms of the said order No S 1174.

Accordingly the Appellant hildentered in to an Advance Payment Bond (APB) bearing No.

AB/4906 dated 16.11.1988 with BLPC. The said APB was valid from 16.11.1988 to 15.11.1989

and subsequently, by an endorsement dated 29.01.1990, the validity of the said APB had been

extended up to 15.11.1990. Also the Appellant, as surety of a Performance Bond No CB/4889

dated 31.10.1988, had agreed to pay Rs.O 1 Million to the Respondent. The said Performance

Bond was valid from 31.10. L 988 to 30.10 1989 and subsequently, by an Endorsement dated

29.01.1990, the validity of the said Performance Bond had been extended up to 30.10.1990.

3

The Respondent, in paragraph 19 and 20 of the plaint, has pleaded that BLPC has

defaulted in the terms and conditions of its contract with the plaintiff' and "in consequence of

the said default by BLPC the plaintiff has suffered loss and damages exceeding Rs. 4 million."

According to the paragraphs 8 and 21 of the plaint by letters dated 03.09.1990 and 22.10.1990,

the Respondent had made a demand on the APB and the Performance Bond to pay the said sum

of money, namely Rs 3 million and Rs 1 million, to the Respondent.

The Respondent's position was that according to the terms and conditions of the

said APB the Appellant has to pay the Respondent on demand to the extent of Rs.3 million and

Respondent's decision as to the amount payable by the Appellant to the Respondent under and in

terms of the APB shall be final and conclusive upon the Appellant. The learned counsel for the

Respondent further contended that the said APB is an 'On Demand Performance Bond' to an

extent of 3 million and the decision of the Respondent would be on any matter contained therein

or as to the amount due shall be final and conclusive on the Appellant. The learned counsel

heavily relied upon the following phrases of the APB. Namely;

" ......... your having agreed to accept our guarantee and indemnity in lieu of Rs. 3

million being 10% of the total value of the order payable as advance to the

contractor in terms of the said order. We, National Insurance Corporation, hereby

agree and undertake that we shall indemnify you on demand to the extent of Rs. 3

million ........... "

"We National Insurance Corporation hereby agree that your decision on any of

the matters herein or as to the amount payable by us hereunder shall be final and

conclusive upon us."

Relying on the said terms the learned counsel for the Respondent contended that

on a reading of document D 1 (APB), it is abundantly clear that the Appellant has to pay the

Respondent on demand the sum claimed by him.

4

I now advert to the said submission. With regard to the said demand, the relevant

part of the said APB is as follows;

"MIS. Hawker Siddley Power Engineering Ltd.

In consideration of your having placed an order No. S 1174 dated 07 .11.1988 (a

copy of which is enclosed and which may be treated as a part of document) upon

MIS BL Power Construction Ltd. hereinafter called (the Contractor) for a sum of

Rs.30,000,0001- Rupees Thirty Million only) for 'the Laying of Underground

Cables (law & High Tension) in the City of Colombo' project and your having

agreed to accept our guarantee and indemnity in lieu of Rs Three Million being

10% of the total value of the order payable as advance to the contractor in terms

of the said order. We, National Insurance Corporation hereby agree and undertake

that we shall indemnify you on demand to the extent of Rs. 3,000,0001- (Rupees

Three Million only) against,

1. Any loss or damage or costs, charges or expenses suffered or incurred by you

due to the breach or non-fulfilment or non-observance by the contractor, of

any of the terms and conditions of the said order and all claims, demands and

proceeding which may be made by or against you in connection therewith."

The Appellant, relying on the said terms and conditions of the APB, contended

that he had agreed and undertaken to indemnify the Respondent on demand to the extent of Rs.3

million to cover only the mobilisation sum which was granted to the Respondent in order to

commence the work and therefore the APB is restricted to the recovery of the advance payment.

The Respondent's contention was that a demand under the APB is not restricted to the recovery

of the advance payment. It is enforceable against any loss or damage or costs, charge or expenses

suffered or incurred by the Respondent due to a breach or non-fulfilment or non-observance of

any of the terms and conditions of the contract by BLPC.

The Respondent further submitted that upon the letters P 1 and P 2 in which

BLPC had agreed to maintain the APB and the Performance Bond to cover any purpose, the

t

I. t { ! ( ! f j I ! t i

5

APB is not restricted to the recovery of the advance payment. In this regard the Appellant

submitted that he had no knowledge about P 1 and P 2. They were communications between the

Respondent and BLPC. Hence the APB could not be unilaterally altered by any private

arrangement between the Respondent and BLPC. The Appellant drew the attention of court to

the words "without affecting our liabilities and obligations" in Clause 3 of the APB. Clause 3 of

the APB is as follows;

'3. You may without affecting our liabilities and obligations hereunder grant time or

other indulgence to or compound with the Contractor or enter in to any agreement or

composition or agree to forbear to enforce any of the terms and conditions of the said

order against the Contractor or agree to vary any of the terms and conditions of the said

order.'

P 1 is a letter dated 27.03.1990 which has been sent by the Respondent to BLPC.

From the said letter the Respondent has informed BLPC as follows;

'BL Power Ltd. must maintain the Advance Payment Bond at Three Million Rupees and

Performance Bond at One Million Rupees. A written guarantee is required from BL

Power that these bonds may be used for any purpose.'

Accordingly, BLPC in clear terms, by their letter dated 27.03.1990 (P 2) has

confirmed that the APB at Three Million Rupees and Performance Bond at One Million Rupees

would be maintained to cover any purpose. Hence it is manifestly clear that the APB has been

maintained to cover any purpose. In view of the said circumstances the Appellant cannot now

contend that the APB is restricted to the recovery of the Advance Payment. Although the

Appellant contended that P 1 and P 2 are in contrary to Clause 3 of the APB, I cannot find any

such disagreement in P 1 and P 2 with Clause 3 of the APB.

The Appellant further contended that since the Advance Payment of Rs. 3 million

has been recovered from BLPC by the Respondent the demand made by the Respondent would

amount to a fraud. In proof of that the Appellant has led evidence of Shiran Sebastian de Soysa,

Company Chairman, BLPC to show the deductions which were made by the Respondent to

6

recover the Advance payment. Witness de Silva in his evidence has stated that on each occasion

BLPC tendered an invoice to the Respondent for the work done, the Respondent deducted 10%

from each payment made to BLPC to recover the sum paid by the Respondent as an Advance

Payment. According to the witness the total sum so deducted as at 3rd August 1990 was

Rs.4,411,632.33. In proof of these recoveries the Appellant has produced the books of account

maintained by BLPC marked D 4. Folios 31 and 32 of 0 4 which contain the recoveries on the

Advance Payment, has been marked D 4 (c). According to D 4( c) the total sum that has been

recovered by the Respondent is RsA,411,632.33.It is more than the Advance Payment granted to

the Appellant. The total gross payment made to BLPC by the Respondent as at 03.08.1990 was

Rs.29,410,882.14.

The learned counsel for Appellant cited the following passage in Sujan's LAW

RELATING TO BUILDING CONTRCTS (2nd Edition 1993) at page 245 - 246 in support of his

contention. Said passage is as follows; "The catena of cases cited above while laying down the

general proposition that bank must honour the guarantee on demand without demur in terms of

the guarantee bond recognises the exception in case of fraud (special equities). It is difficult to

define the parameters of fraud. The decision on the point would depend on the facts of each case

but an endeavour is made to clarify the point by giving obvious illustrations. Apart from the bank

guarantee furnished by the builder to cover his obligation of performance of contract in general,

in actual practice banks guarantees are also furnished by the builder (i) in lieu of earnest money;

(ii) in lieu of security deposit and (iii) to cover the payment of mobilisation advances. In the case

of (i) and (ii) in the event of the tender of the builder not accepted obviously attempt to enforce

the bank guarantee, would be a fraud. In the case of (iii) if a mobilisation advance of say 20

lakhs have been given to the builder which according to the agreement is proportionately

deducted from the running bills and while the construction has reached a stage of 50 per cent and

half of the amount of the mobilisation advance has been recovered from the running bills the

owner on some ground or the other rescinds the contract and seeks to enforce the bank guarantee

to the full extent of 20 lakhs from the bank in terms of the guarantee, this would obviously be a

case of fraud. In such an event the bank would be within its rights to refuse to honour the bank

guarantee"

I

f I I [ l I

~

f

~

7

I cannot see any relevance of the said passage to the case before me. It has dealt

with a situation where the amount of the mobilisation advance had been recovered from the

running bills. Facts of the present case are not same as of the given illustration. In the present

case there are terms included in the APB to cover any loss or damage incurred or suffered by the

Respondent. Hence I cannot agree with the contention that the APB is restricted to the recovery

of the Advance Payment. It is important to note that the witness Shiran Sebastian de Soysa,

Chairman BLPC, who had been called by the Appellant to give evidence on his behalf, has

admitted in his evidence that the Advance Payment Bond would be used not only for Advance

Payment but for any purpose.

In the evidence of Shiran Sebastian de Soysa, he has further admitted that BLPC

did not work as per schedule, the tiles they used were not up to the standard, since the jointing of

cables were not being done properly the cables got damaged and thereby the cost of the project

went up by about Rs. 10 million. (At pages 274,275 and 276 of the brief) At the cross

examination of witness Shiran Sebastian de Soysa, the Respondent has produced the documents

P 6, P 7 and P 8. The P 6 is a letter dated 27.09.1989. It has been sent to the Respondent by

BLPC. It refers to a discussion they had with regard to quality of cable tiles. BLPC has stated

therein as follows; "We confirm that we shall maintain strict quality control of all cable tiles

manufactured by our suppliers. A quality assurance certificate shall be issued for all cable tiles to

be used on this project. Our Engineers and Supervisors have also been given strict instructions in

this regard and we assure you that the question of substandard cable tiles would not arise in the

future."

P 7 too is a letter dated 06.10.1989. It also has been sent to the Respondent by an

institution called Ewbank Preece. P 7 states as follows; "It is observed that quality of cable

protection tiles has deteriorated considerably. We wish to stress that the quality of cable

protection tiles should be up to the standard of original sample provided by HSPE (the

Respondent) otherwise will be subject to rejection."

It is apparent from P 6 and P 7 that there had been a breach or non-fulfilment or

non-observance of the terms and conditions of the contract by BLPC and thereby a loss or

damage has been caused to the Respondent.

I i I

~ [ f I

8

In the case of Edward Owen Engineering Ltd V s Barclays Bank International Ltd

[1978] Q.B. 159 Lord Denning examined the nature of the business transaction called a

performance guarantee or a performance bond issued by a bank and the legal implications of

such transaction. In this case a contracting party who caused a bank to issue a performance

guarantee sought to restrain the bank by injunction from making payment on that guarantee. On

the facts, the contracting party to whom payment was to be ultimately made (a Libiyan customer

of the Plaintiff) was in default on the main contract but it was held that an injunction could not

issue to restrain payment on the guarantee on that basis. Lord Denning, on an examination of

parallel transactions opined as follows at page 983;

"So, as one takes instance after instance, these performance guarantees are

virtually promissory notes payable on demand. So long as the Libiyan customers make an honest

demand, the banks are bound to pay and the banks will rarely, if ever, be in a position to know

whether the demand is honest or not. At any rate they will not be able to prove it to be dishonest.

So they will have to pay. All this leads to the conclusion that the performance guarantee stands

on a similar footing to a letter of credit. A bank which gives a performance guarantee must

honour that guarantee according to its terms. It is not concerned in the least with the relations

between the supplier and the customer; nor with the question whether the supplier has performed

his contracted obligation or not; nor with the question whether the supplier is in default or not.

The bank must pay according to its guarantee, on demand if so stipulated, without proof or

conditions. The only exception is when there is a clear fraud of which the bank has notice."

In the case of Indica Traders (Pvt) Ltd. Vs Seoul Lanka Constructions (Pvt) Ltd.

and Others [1994] 3 SLR 387 (CA) it was held that "The proper approach of a court to a

consideration of an ex parte application for an interim injunction restraining a bank from paying

under an irrevocable letter of credit (LC), a performance bond or guarantee should be to ask

whether there is any challenge to the validity of the letter, bond or guarantee itself. Ifthere is not

or if the challenge is not substantial, prima facie no injunction should be granted and the bank

should be left free to honour its contracted obligation although restrictions may well be imposed

on the freedom of the beneficiary to deal with the money after he has received it. The wholly

exceptional case where an injunction may be granted is where it is proved that the bank knows

that any demand for payment already made or which may thereafter be made will clearly be

9

fraudulent. But the evidence must be clear, both (1) as to the fact of fraud and (2) as to the bank's

knowledge. It would certainly not normally be sufficient that this rests on the uncorroborated

statement of the customer, for irreparable damage can be done to a bank's credit in the relatively

brief time which must elapse between the granting of such an injunction and an application by

the bank to have it discharged.

Business transactions between a bank and a beneficiary, constituted in the nature

of a performance bond, a performance guarantee, letter of guarantee or irrevocable letter of

credit, whereby the bank is obliged to pay money to a beneficiary, are not tripartite transactions

between the bank (surety) the beneficiary (creditor) and the party at whose instance the bond,

guarantee or letter is issued (the principal debtor) but, simply transactions between the bank and

the beneficiary. A bank thereby guarantees to the beneficiary payment of money and is obliged

to honour that guarantee according to its terms. Any dispute that may arise between the

beneficiary (creditor) and the party at whose instance the guarantee or letter is given (the

principal debtor), on the underlying contact, cannot be urged to restrain the bank from honouring

the guarantee or letter according to its terms."

In the case of Bolivinter Oil SA v. Chase Manhattan Bank and others (1984) 1 All

ER 351 Sir John Donaldson MR stated as follows: "Judges who are asked, often at short notice

and ex parte, to issue an injunction restraining payment by a bank under an irrevocable letter of

credit or performance bond or guarantee should ask whether there is any challenge to the validity

of the letter, bond or guarantee itself. If there is not or if the challenge is not substantial, prima

facie no injunction should be granted and the bank should be left free to honour its contractual

obligation, although restrictions may well be imposed on the freedom of the beneficiary to deal

with the money after he has received it. The wholly exceptional case where an injunction may be

granted is where it is proved that the bank knows that any demand for payment already made or

which may thereafter be made will clearly be fraudulent. But the evidence must be clear, both as

to the fact of fraud and as to the bank's knowledge. It would certainly not normally be sufficient

that this rests on the uncorroborated statement of the customer, for irreparable damage can be

done to a bank's credit in the relatively brief time which must elapse between the granting of

such an injunction and an application by the bank to have it discharged."

I i f

10

When I consider the facts of this case on the above context I am of the view that

the Appellant has failed to adduce evidence to establish any fraud on the demand that has been

made upon the APB and the Performance Bond. Therefore the demand that has been made upon

the APB and the Performance Bond will not amount to a fraud. The learned trial judge has

considered the said circumstances in the correct perspective. Hence I dismiss the appeal of the

Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

SISIRA DE ABREW, J.

I agree.

J II ! I

f:

I t

t

f I ,