==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A. 76911997 (F) D.C. Anuradhapura 14464/M

Yakumbuge Salma Amanawattiya, Kalawewa, Vijithapura.

PLAINTIFF

Vs.

1. K.A. Tissa Kasthuriarachchi Dagollagama, Iluppallama.

2. R. B. Gunawardena Driver - University Unit Mahailluppallama.

3. Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation Rakshana Mandhiraya, Waxshal Street, Colombo.

DEFENDANTS

And

Yakumbuge Salma Amanawattiya, Kalawewa, Vijithapura

PLAINTIFF -APPELLANT

Vs.

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERA TNE J.

Anil Gooneratne 1.

1. K.A. Tissa Kasthuriarachchi Dagollagama, Iluppallama.

2. R. B. Gunawardena Driver - University Unit Mahailluppallama .

3. Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation Rakshana Mandhiraya, Waxshal Street, Colombo.

DEFENDANT -RESPONDENTS

I. L. M. Azwar with T.K. lalal for the Appellant

Ranjan Gooneratne with Sarath Walgamage for the 1 sl Defendant-Respondent

2nd & 3rd Defendant-Respondents absent and unrepresented

25.10.2011

13.12.2011

2

On or about 14.8.1990 Plaintiffs husband died as a result of an

accident, caused by an omnibus driven by the 1 st Defendant and the 2nd

Defendant was the owner of the bus bearing No. 22 Sri 9150. At the trial 2

3

admissions were recorded viz that the 2nd Defendant was the owner and that

the bus was driven by the 1 sl Defendant an employee of the 2nd Defendant.

At the trial 11 issues were raised. 2

nd & 3

rd Defendants did not raise any

issues. Plaintiff has claimed a sum of Rs. 200,0001- as damages. The 3

rd

Defendant was the Insurance Corporation. Issue Nos. 07 - 09 suggests that

the accident occurred due to a mechanical defect in the bus. (e;)5)e5)@c.O ~@

&uID@®eD, e;)5)e5)@CO ffi(3oCS) @CO) E)653rn E>®). The deceased was a passenger

in the bus at the time of accident and the issues suggest that the deceased at

the point of impact jumped out of the bus and died as a result of the bus over

turning. It suggest that death was caused due to the negligence of the

deceased.

The learned District Judge dismissed the Plaintiff's case due to

the fact that Plaintiff has not proved the case by direct or circumstantial

evidence. I cannot dispute that position that there is an absence of direct

evidence and evidence of an eye witness was not led at the trial. The bus was

driven from Ehalagama towards Kalawewa. Only the Plaintiff and the

Grama Sevaka gave evidence for Plaintiff party at the trial.

There is some evidence of the income of Plaintiff's deceased

husband. The Defendant's version, very correctly has been considered by the

trial Judge.

At the hearing before me learned counsel for Appellant sought

to demonstrate and argued that this is a fit case to apply the maxim of

4

Res Ipsa Loquitur and in the absence of proper explanation by the

Defendants, they would be liable. Learned Counsel for Respondent contends

that his client the 1 st Defendant is not liable and in view of the mechanical

defect of the bus the 2nd Defendant owner alone is liable. This is a case

where the facts itself speak of negligence. The question is the liability and

the District Judge's view on the defendant's version? The learned counsel

for Appellant drew the attention of this court to the following items of

evidence.

(1) At Pg. 63 a lorry being converted to a bus as testified by 1 st Defendant

in cross-examination. Usually it was used to transport goods.

(2) At Pg. 72 refer to the evidence of the owner of the so called bus the

2nd Defendant. In evidence it is admitted by the 2nd defendant the bus

in question was not in good mechanical condition. The evidence reads

thus (a@ e;»(s)eD@)c.6 erffiB> ooz; @) @)e>®. e;»~eDCO~ a}@)d ~@) az;~e)@C)

~z;~ rnrnrne;)coC) am 00 a)oC) ~z;®@C) @d> ~@~) ~@ erffiB>fmoz;@)CS)

ge5JfS)@~ IDe;) @) ~~. e;»~eDCO~ aCO~@)O~C) ~)O ~@)® ~ a@ e;»~eDCO

a)@)d az;~~C) ~~e;)esS rn~@)c.6 B>@)IDeDe» eD® a@®'Jffi aCO~@)O~C) ~co

5

geD@eD tDc.o) ®) 8~ (5)5)®. ®® 8~ (5)es5e5l~) ~)C5)~~ a® rneD~@aS

rn@@es5 ~z;rn 5)(f))

It was the position of the learned counsel for Appellant that the

Plaintiff only need to provide prima facie evidence in a case of this nature

and the burden of proof would shift to the Defendant. In this way the learned

counsel for Appellant refer to the above items of evidence and contest the

judgment of the District Court. The learned District Judge also agree, based

on evidence that the vehicle in question was not road worthy or in a fit

condition to be used for passenger transport. I would not fault the District

Judge's analysis of the facts of this case especially where the Judge directs

his mind to fault of the 2nd Defendant, of the vehicle being in a state of unfit

condition to be used as a vehicle. But I would reject his conclusion as

contained in the last paragraph of the judgment at pg. 81182 of the original

record.

At this point of my judgment before I conclude and set aside

the judgment of the original court I would prefer to fortify my views to be

applied to the facts of the case in hand by considering the maxim of Res Ipsa

Loquitur.

6

Res Ipsa Loquitur

Two views. (i) it is not a rule of law on its own. Ultimate burden of proof

rests on the plaintiff.

(ii) It represents a rule of law. But the 2nd view is more practical and fair.

Take increasing road accidents for example. The accidents occurs and some

times you may find it difficult to identify the person actually negligent. In

such situations, depending on the facts and circumstances, this rule may be

useful as a rule of law.

The Rationale for a rule of this nature to emerge or to be

adopted, was because the plaintiff is unable to give details of the true cause

of accident and provide with precise details. In other words the knowledge

of the true cause of accident lies with the Defendant. As such plaintiff only

need to prove a prima facie case of negligence. It permits court to infer

negligence. It is more or less a rule of evidence.

The Catherine Docks 159 ER 665. Defendant was In posseSSIOn of

warehouse and crane for lowering goods from warehouse to ground. Plaintiff

passing the warehouse was injured by the fall of some bags of sugar that were

being lowered by the crane. Held, accident itself was prima facie evidence of

negligence.

Byrne vs. Boadle 1863 2 H & C 722 - a barrel rolled out of the upper floor

of the defendants premises and fell on the plaintiff, a passer by in the street below.

The defendant called no evidence. Held, this fact alone without any evidence as to

how the accident happened was sufficient to enter judgment for the plaintiff.

7

Roe vs. Minister of Health 19542 WLR 915 at 922(C.A.) - A patient at a

hospital became permanently paralysed from the waist downwards after the

administering of a spinal anesthetic injection by an Anesthetist who was the

servant of the hospital authority Mottis LJ of the view that it was for the

defendant hospital to explain how the accident occurred.

Saffena Umma vs. Siddek 37 NLR 25. - The defendant's bus suddenly left

the road, mounted the pavement, and knocked down a boy seated on the steps of a

house adjoining the pavement. The only explanation given by the defendant's

driver was that the steering rod of the bus broke. It was held that the defendant

has no discharged the burden of giving a reasonable explanation.

Cabral vs. Alberatne 57 NLR 368. - A motor truck belonging to the

defendant ran off the road into the plaintiff s house on the side of the road.

Defendant merely stated that the steering rod got out of its place. He did not say

how and why the steering rod came out of its place. He did not say that the

vehicle was serviced regularly or serviced at all. It was held he had not discharged

the burden of giving a reasonable explanation.

More often than not the defendant is as much in the dark as the plaintiff as

to how the accident happened. He may, instead of giving an explanation, show

that he took all reasonable precautions to prevent the occurrence of the accident.

Barkway vs. South Wales Transport Co. Ltd. 1950 1 AER 392 (HL) - A

motor bus belonging to the defendant went off the road when a tyre burst killing

the plaintiff s husband. The tyre burst was caused by an impact fracture of the

tyre from a severe blow which does not leave a mark on the outside of the tyre,

but results in a fracture inside the tyre. The defendant led evidence to show that

all its tyres were examined twice a week by an expert fitter under its employment.

It did not however instruct its drivers to report heavy blows to tyres likely to

cause impact fractures. The House of Lords held that it was the duty of the

defendant Co. to have instructed their drivers to report such heavy blows, and

8

they had failed to do it. In the circumstances the defendants had not discharged

the burden on showing that they had taken all reasonable steps to prevent the

accident.

On the question of damages I wish to observe that traditional

rules are applicable but we have to look into the modem sophisticated social

environment and human behavior. The court should consider granting

punitive damages whenever possible as a deterrent particularly in road

accident cases etc. This kind of compensation has been available since 18th

century in the English Law. Before considering damages let me also refer to

another case.

Perera vs. Gamini Bus Co. Ltd. LI NLR 328 ...

An omnibus stopped at a halting place to enable passengers including plaintiff to

alight and the plaintiff was later found run over by the rear wheel of the bus.

Held, that the maxim res ipsa loquitur applied and that in the absence of an

explanation the defendant was liable.

The evidence placed before the original court by the 15t & 2nd

defendants regarding the mechanical condition of the bus to be unroad

worthy would permit court to infer negligence on the part of the defendants.

There is no defence or an acceptable explanation put forward by the

Defendant's to get themselves absolved from the case. Facts itself speak the

truth of the case and make the Defendant liable in negligence. There is no

9

material to establish that the accident occurred due to a cause beyond the

control of the Defendant. The Defendants support the defect found in the

bus. In these circumstances the 15t defendant should never have driven the

bus and 2nd Defendant should not have permitted the 15t Defendant to drive

the bus. The 15t Defendant cannot simply blame the owner. The acquittal or

discharge of 15t Defendant in the Magistrate's Court cannot have a bearing in

the Civil Court. Master will be liable for negligent acts of his servant if the

servant was acting within the scope of employment. Inasmuch as both

master and servant would be liable. In the case in hand based on the maxim

of Res Ipsa Loquitur both are liable. There need not be expert evidence to

rely on liability or the condition of the vehicle, unless complications are

apparent.

The next question is the question of damages. There is some

evidence of income particulars placed before the original court.

(uncontradicted). The deceased had 6 children and had earned about 500/-

600/- per day. Some days he did not earn anything at all (Plaintiff's

evidence) The deceased was 46 years of age when he died.

It appears to court that the deceased did not have a fixed

income. Nor did he have a permanent job. He may have been doing various

things to keep the home fires burning. Usually precise proof of pecuniary

10

loss should be adduced. 55 NLR 182. In this instance there is some proof of

income which had not been challenged by the Defendants. As such court

would have to adopt a reasonable formula. The question of damages should

be in a case of negligence be determined by pecuniary loss suffered. 69 NLR

525. The Grama Sevaka has testified that the deceased was in receipt of food

stamps to the value of Rs. 500/- and another Rs. 250/-. Court need to

consider such values as described by the Grama Sevaka and deduct these

sums. Plaintiff has not given proper details of income and expenses incurred

in a systematic way to enable a court of law to grant damages adopting a

legally acceptable formula.

Plaintiff has only claimed Rs. 200,000/=. Nor can court grant

the entirety in the absence of precise details.

However since the maxim of Res Ipsa Loquitur applies to this

case court has to in the interest of justice award a reasonable sum. If the life

expectancy of the deceased who died at the age of 46 years and his life

expectancy was 70 years, and if this court accept the evidence regarding

income of deceased, court after deductions would have to award a sum over

an above the claim prayed for in the plaint. That would not be legally

possible. Therefore a reasonable amount in the opinion of this court would

be about Rs. 100,000/=.

• 11

In the above circumstances I set aside the judgment of the

District Court, and enter judgment in favour of the Plaintiff in a sum of Rs.

100,0001- with legal interest from date of plaint till payment in full. In the

circumstances no order is made as to costs.

Appeal allowed.