==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 352 I 2000 (F)

D.C. Ratnapura No. 165 I L

Kirikankanamalage Ariyasena, Athukoralawatta, Kuttapitiya, Pelmadulla.

Plaintiff Vs.

D.M.C.P. Dissanayake alias D.M. Chandrika Priyangani Dissanayake, Elaudalanda, Kaltota, Balangoda.

Defendant

And Now Between

Kirikankanamalage Ariyasena, Athukoralawatta, Kuttapitiya, Pelmadulla.

Plaintiff-Appellant

Vs

D.M.C.P. Dissanayake alias D.M. Chandrika Priyangani Dissanayake,

Elaudalanda, Kaltota, Balangoda.

Defendant Respondent

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNEJ.

H. Withanachchi with Shantha

Karunadasa for the Plaintiff Appellnt

Navin Marapana with Tharanatha

Palliyaguruge for the Defendant

Respondent

31.05.2012

09.05.2013

The Plaintiff Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant)

instituted an action against the Defendant Respondent (hereinafter referred to as

the Respondent) in the District Court of Ratnapura seeking a declaration of title to

the land described in the schedule to the plaint. The Respondent filed answer

denying the averments in the plaint and prayed for a dismissal of the Appellant's

action. The case proceeded to trial on 04 issues. After trial, the learned District

Judge having come to a conclusion that the Appellant was entitled to a declaration

of title has held that the Appellant was not entitled to a judgment ejecting the

Respondent from the land in suit. Being aggrieved by the said judgment dated

24.04.2000 the Appellant has preferred the present appeal to this court.

The Respondent's position was that she was the tenant cultivator of

the land in suit and hence she cannot be ejected by a judgment of the District

Court. The evidence of the Respondent's case was that one Dharmaratne was the

3

tenant cultivator of the land in suit and said Dhamaratne transferred his rights of

tenant cultivator to the Respondent by his letter dated 02.09.1987 (V 5).

The Appellant has derived title to the land in suit by deed of transfer

bearing No. 5099 dated 02.12.1985. The Respondent has admitted the said title of

the Appellant. The Appellant has admitted that said Dhamaratna was the tenant

cultivator under his predecessor in title. Hence it is clear from the said evidence

that said Dharmeratne had become the tenant cultivator under the Appellant in

consequent to the said deed of transfer bearing No. 5099 dated 02.12.1985.

It is seen from the said evidence that after the execution of the said

deed of transfer bearing No. 5099 dated 02.12.1985 said Dhamaratne has

transferred his rights of tenant cultivator to the Appellant. In this regard a question

would arise as to whether the said transfer of the rights of tenant cultivator is legal?

If the answer to this question is 'yes' then the Respondent's possession of the land

in suit would necessarily become legal. If so the Appellant would not be entitled to

a judgment ejecting the Respondent from the land in suit.

At the trial the Appellant has produced a document marked P 1. P 1

was a statement made by the Respondent at an inquiry made in to an application to

amend the name of the tenant cultivator of the land in suit. According to the said

document the Respondent was the wife of Dharmaratna who was the tenant

cultivator under the Appellant's predecessor in title and after the death of said

Dharmaratne the Respondent has made an Application to include her name as the

tenant cultivator. The Officer who produced the document P 1 at the trial has

testified that the Respondent's name has been entered in the Register of

Agricultural Lands as the tenant cultivator of the land in suit.

4

According to Section 07 of the Agrarian Services Act No 58 of 1979 a

tenant cultivator is entitled to nominate a member of his family as a successor who

shall be entitled to succeed to rights of such tenant cultivator. Section 07 of the

said Act stipulates as follows:

"A tenant cultivator of any extent of paddy land, other than a tenant

cultivator who cultivates such extent either jointly or in rotation with

any other tenant cultivator, may nominate a member of his family as a

successor who shall be entitled to succeed to such tenant cultivator's

rights under this Act in respect of such extent upon the death of such

tenant cultivator."

Also, according to Section 45(3) of the Agrarian Service Act any

entry in the Register of Agricultural Lands which has been prepared or revised

under the provisions of Section 45 and which is for the time being in force shall be

admissible in evidence and shall be prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein.

Section 5(1) of the Agrarian Service Act stipulates that "A tenant

cultivator of any extent of paddy land shall have the right to occupy and use such

extent in accordance with the provisions of this Act and shall not be evicted from

such extent notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any oral or written

agreement by which such extent has been let to such tenant cultivator, and no

person shall interfere in the occupation and use of such extent by the tenant

cultivator and the landlord shall not demand or receive from the tenant cultivator

any rent in excess of the rent required by this Act to be paid in respect of such

extent to the landlord."

5

Evidence of the case clearly shows that after the death of Dharmaratna

the Respondent's name has been entered in the Register of Agricultural Lands as

the tenant cultivator of the land in suit under the Appellant. Hence in the light of

the said statutory provisions contained in the Agrarian Services Act No 58 of 1979

I am of the view that the Appellant is not entitled to a judgment ejecting the

Respondent from the land in suit.

In the said circumstances I see no reason to interfere with the said

judgement of the learned District Judge dated 24.04.2000. Therefore I dismiss the

appeal of the Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal