==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

1. A.M.Nawaratne Amarakoon No.4, Templers Road,

Mount Lavinia

1 st Defendant-Appellant In 396A/98

2. P.K.Bernard Dias No.55, 5th Lane, Nawala

Deceased 2 nd Defendant-Appellant in 396B/98

2A Mrs. W. Purangani Devika Dias No.520/8, High Level Road, Navinna, Maharagama

Vs.

Substituted 2A Defendant-Appellant In 396B/98

C.A.NO.396A/98 (F) & C.A.NO.396B/98 (F) D.C.MT.LAVINIA CASE NO.137/L Sita Hapuarachchi

BEFORE

COUNSEL

No.116, Poorwarama Road, Colombo 06

Plaintiff-Respondent in both appeals

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J.

Samantha Vithana with Ravi Jayawardane for the

1st Defendant-Appellant in 396A/98

Ranjan Suwandarathne for the Substituted 2A Defendant- Appellant in 396B/98

Harsha Soza, P.C. for the Plaintiff-Respondent in both appeals

1

Ii

;.f!f

\J, , r !t1I

t! iI

!Ir

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

CHITRASIRI, J.

28.04.2014 by the 1st Defendant-Appellant

30.04.2014 by the Substituted 2A Defendant-Appellant

30.04.2014 by the Plaintiff- Respondent

20TH MARCH 2014

06TH JUNE 2014

Plaintiff-Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the plaintiff) filed this action

In the District Court of Mt. Lavinia seeking among other things, to have a

judgment declaring that:

./ the plaintiff is the beneficial owner of Lots 7B, 15, 19 and 9 which are

morefully described in the second schedule to the plaint;

./ the 1st defendant-appellant (hereinafter referred to as the 1st defendant) is

holding the said Lots 7B, 15, 19 and 9 in trust for the plaintiff at all

material times;

./ the deed bearing No.174 attested by S.N.Fernando, Notary Public is of no

force or effect in law and does not convey title to the 2nd defendant-

Respondent; (hereinafter referred to as the 2nd defendant)

./ the legal ownership of the aforesaid Lots 7B, 15, 19 and 9 is with the

plaintiff and accordingly to have the 1 st defendant and/ or the 2nd defendant

evicted therefrom.

Upon perusal of the reliefs prayed for by the plaintiff and the averments

contained in the plaint, it is seen that the case of the plaintiff depends on the

2

question as to whether the 1st defendant is holding the aforesaid lands referred to

in the second schedule to the plaint, in trust for the benefit of the plaintiff. The

said claim of the plaintiff had been advanced, basically because the consideration

mentioned in the deed bearing No.35 by which the 2nd defendant became the

owner of the aforesaid lots described in the 2nd schedule to the plaint, was paid or

provided by the deceased father of the plaintiff namely Leon Appuhamy. Learned

District Judge relying upon Section 84 of the Trust Ordinance inter alia decided

that the property in suit is being held by the 1 st defendant in trust for the plaintiff

on the basis that:

• the consideration for the purchase of the property referred to in the

second schedule to the plaint had been provided by the father of the

plaintiff; and

• the father had not intended to gIve the beneficial interest of the said

property to the 1st defendant though it was purchased in his name.

Plaintiff in her evidence stated that she married 1st defendant in the year

1968 and it was dissolved by the decree absolute, entered on 12.08.1983 in the

case bearing No.11507 jD filed in the District Court. During the existence of their

marriage, 1 j 14th share of the property referred to in the first schedule to the plaint

had been purchased in the name of the 1st defendant by executing the deed No.35

dated 27.06.1969. The plaintiff alleged that the sale price for the aforesaid

transaction was paid by her father. Accordingly, the action of the plaintiff is on the

basis that 1 j 14th share of the property referred to in the first schedule to the

3

\

plaint which is in the name of the 1,t defendant was purchased for the

advancement of their marriage. She therefore took up the position that her father

did not intend to give its beneficial interest to the 1st defendant though it was

bought in his name. Accordingly, she sought to have a judgment declaring that

the 1st defendant is holding the land referred to in the second schedule to the

plaint in trust for her.

The 1st defendant denied the payment having been made by the father of the

plaintiff. His position is that he paid the consideration amounting to Rs.20,000 /-

for the purchase of 1/ 14th share of the land described in the 1 st schedule to the

plaint. Accordingly, he sought to have the plaint dismissed.

The 2nd defendant has alleged that he purchased lots 7B and 9 from the 1 st

defendant by executing the deed No.1406 dated 1.10.1985. His position is that he

is a bona fide purchaser of the said two lots having paid the full consideration to

the 1 st defendant.

However, the learned District Judge having accepted the position that it was

the father of the plaintiff who paid the consideration for the purchase of the

property referred to in the second schedule to the plaint has held that the plaintiff

is entitled to the benefit of Section 84 of the Trust ordinance. Accordingly, he has

held that the property in suit is being held in trust for the plaintiff by the 1st

defendant and granted the reliefs as prayed for in the amended plaint dated

30.05.1994.

4

I!IJ

I

,

~ ! t ![

[ Ii

,t

At this stage, it must be noted that this Court being an appellate

Court is generally reluctant to interfere with a decision that had been arrived at,

by a trial judge upon considering the facts of the case unless it is perverse andlor

irrational. [Frad Vs. Brown & Co. 28 NLR 282, Mahawithana Vs. Commissioner

of Inland Revenue 64 N L R 217, De Silva Vs. Seneviratne 1981 (2) SLR 8,

Alwis Vs. Piyasena Fernando 1993 (1) S L R 119] Hence, I am not inclined to

interfere with the decision of the learned trial judge as to the person who paid or

provided the consideration when executing the deed 35 by which the 1 st defendant

became the owner of II 14th share of the land described in the 1st schedule to the

amended plaint. However, it must be noted that the purpose for which the money

was provided has not been properly adverted to by the learned trial judge in this

instance. I will be looking at it, at a later stage in this judgment.

I must also state that the learned District Judge has correctly relied upon

Section 84 of the Trusts Ordinance as the law applicable to the issue at hand.

Therefore, it is now necessary to consider whether the plaintiff was successful in

establishing a constructive trust over the property referred to in the second

schedule to the plaint having proved the ingredients contained in that Section 84

of the Trusts Ordinance. The said Section 84 in the Trusts Ordinance stipulates

thus:

84. Where property is transferred to one person for a consideration

paid or provided by another person, and it appears that such

other person did not intend to payor provide such consideration

for the benefit of the transferee, the transferee must hold the

5

I

tI

property for the benefit of the person paying or providing the

consideration.

In order to establish a constructive trust in terms of the above Section 84 of

the Trusts Ordinance, law requires to prove that the consideration mentioned in

the deed in question had been paid or provided by a person other than the vendee

to a deed of transfer and also that other person who paid the consideration did not

intend to give the beneficial interest to the transferee of the property subjected to

in that deed. When such circumstances are established then it is that other

person who paid or provided the consideration has the right to claim that the

transferee to the deed is holding the property in trust for the benefit of that person

who provided the money.

In this instance, plaintiff alleged that the payment was made by the

plaintiff's father and not by the plaintiff though it had been denied by the 1 st

defendant. As mentioned above, the said provision of law namely Section 84

of the Trusts Ordinance allows only the person who paid the consideration to

claim a constructive trust under that Section and not by another on his/her

behalf. Admittedly, the plaintiff in this case has not paid the consideration to the

vendor of the property in question. Admittedly, it was by her father who had

made the payment. Under those circumstances, it is seen that the aforesaid

section does not provide for the plaintiff to claim a constructive trust, she not

being the person who paid the price for the purchase of the property that she

claims as a constructive trust.

6

However, the plaintiff has contended that the money that her father had

paid was on her behalf. Therefore, it is necessary to consider whether such

circumstances also could be taken into consideration to create a constructive

trust in terms of Section 84 of the Trusts Ordinance, in favour of the plaintiff she

being the daughter of the person who provided the money. Accordingly, I will now

refer to the following authorities which could be of some assistance in finding an

answer to the said issue.

I will first look at the provisions in the Trusts Ordinance to find a solution to

the issue mentioned in the preceding paragraph. Totality of the provisions

contained in Chapter IX of the Trusts Ordinance where the law provides for the

instances by which a constructive trust could be created, permit only the person

who paid or provided the consideration for the respective transaction, to claim a

constructive trust. The very first Section namely Section 83 in Chapter IX of the

Trusts Ordinance, allows the person who transferred his/her property without

intending to dispose of the beneficial interest of that property, to claim a

constructive trust. As stated hereinbefore, the next Section namely Section 84,

permits the person who provided the consideration for the transfer of property in

the name of another party, to create a constructive trust. Even the rest of the

Sections in Chapter IX do not refer to any other person, than the person who

provided the consideration, to claim a constructive trust even though evidence is

forthcoming to show that the party who paid the consideration did not intend to

give the beneficial interest to the transferee of the property in question. Therefore,

it is seen that the provisions by which creation of a constructive trust is permitted

7

\ \l1i

under the Trusts Ordinance do not allow another person than the person who

paid or provided the money for the purchase of the property even though the

evidence is available to show that he has not intended to give up the beneficial

interest of the same, to apply for a constructive trust in respect of that property.

Accordingly, it is clear that the Parliament has not intended to allow any person

other than the person who provided the consideration to claim a constructive trust

in terms of Section 84 of the Trusts Ordinance when it was enacted.

In the book on "Trusts" by Dr.L.J.M.Cooray, it is mentioned that Section

84 of the Trust Ordinance has effected a change, because a person who relies on it

must prove that -

(1) He provided the consideration,

(2) It was not for the benefit of the transferee (even if he was a stranger)

(At page 131)

In the case of Daniel v. Arnolis [30 N.L.R. at 247], it was held that the

plaintiff must prove that he paid the consideration and he paid so not for the

benefit of the defendant when claiming a constructive trust in terms of Section 84

of the Trust Ordinance.

I could not find any authority even in India where the law referred to in

Section 84 in our Ordinance is identical to Section 82 in the Indian Trusts Act,

allowing a person other than the person who provided the consideration to claim a

constructive trust. Therefore, it is clear that only the person who paid or provided

the consideration could make an application in terms of Section 84 of the Trusts

8

Ordinance to claim a constructive trust. In the circumstances, it is my opinion

that the protection of Section 84 in the Trusts Ordinance does not extend to the

heirs of the person who paid or provided the money for the transaction in issue. It

is more so, since our law as well as the law in India in this regard is governed by

the statutory provisions enacted by the Parliament though the principles

governing a creation of constructive trusts is founded on equity.

I will now turn to consider the purpose for which the money was provided as

alleged by the plaintiff in this case. Plaintiff has come to Court on the basis that

the money that was paid by her father was for the advancement of her marriage

with the 1 st defendant who is the transferee to the property referred to in the 2nd

schedule to the plaint. Hence, it is the burden of the plaintiff to prove that her

father did pay the money for that purpose without intending to give the beneficial

interest of the property to the 1 st defendant.

In the book titled "THE INDIAN TRUSTS ACT" by P.Ramanatha Aiyar and

P.Raghava Aiyar (2nd Edition) at page 566, it is stated that under the English law,

the doctrine of "advancement" will not be presumed in favour of more remote

relation, and a fortiori not of a stranger, though the real purchaser may have

placed himself in loco parentis. Furthermore, at page 567 in that book, it is also

stated thus:

((In India the doctrine of advancement in favour of a wife or a son has no

application but the test to find out whether a transaction is benami or not is

9

\ ttt,

f

i

II I

IIi ! , I II! t I ! 1

the source from which the purchase money is got, but even this test becomes

relevant only in the absence of all other explanatory circumstances." (Mt. Raj

Kunwari V. Mt. Ram Maharaja Kunwari 82 Ie 832)

In Mendis and others Vs. Paramaswami [62 N L R 302] Basnayake C J

held thus:

"It would appear from the language of section 84 of the Trusts Ordinance that

the state of mind that is relevant for the purposes of that section is the state of

mind the person paying the consideration had at the time he paid it. That

state of mind must be established by contemporaneous statements or

declarations. Statements made long after the transaction are not relevant.

Under our Evidence Ordinance evidence may be given in any suit of the

existence or non-existence of every fact in issue, and of such other facts as

are declared to be relevant by that Ordinance and of no others. "

Having examined the authorities mentioned above, it is clear that the proof

of advancement of marriage or any other purpose similar to that of a marriage

depends, not solely on the basis of the relationship the transferee had with the

person who provided the consideration but it is basically on the attendant

circumstances of each case. Also, it is not only the manner in which the parties

are related to each other that is to be considered in deciding the purpose for which

the consideration was provided.

10

In the case at hand, admittedly the plaintiff has not paid the consideration.

She claims that her deceased father H.Don Leon Appuhamy paid the

consideration. The person who provided money was not available to give evidence

to establish the fact that the money was provided for the purpose of advancement

of the marriage of the plaintiff. Plaintiff is the only witness who gave evidence on

her behalf to establish the intention of the father who paid the consideration even

though there are nine vendees to the deed No.35 marked P2 by which the 1 st

defendant acquired title to the land in dispute along with eight others. Some of

them are the brothers and sisters of the plaintiff herself. None of them gave

evidence to support that the father Leon Appuhamy provided the consideration for

the advancement of the marriage of their sister. More importantly, it is strange on

the part of the plaintiff to have delayed enormously, in making the claim for a

constructive trust under Section 84 of the Trust ordinance. This action had been

filed in the year 1992 having waited for a very long period which counts over 23

years from the date of the alleged transaction which took place in the year 1969.

Furthermore, the court cannot disregard the fact that the plaintiff has not

objected the 1 st defendant obtaining compensation for the land acquired by the

State though she has said it was due to the reason of getting the divorce without

delay.

Hence, it is clear that the plaintiff has failed to establish that her father paid

the consideration referred to in the deed was paid, for the advancement of her

marriage with the 1st defendant. Her oral testimony is not sufficient to establish

11

\

! t

II I I! I

~ , f f

such a fact. My view is that the purpose for which the money was provided can

only be established with cogent evidence when claiming a constructive trust.

In the circumstances, it is clear that the plaintiff, not being the person who

provided money cannot claim the benefit in terms of Section 84 of the Trust

Ordinance. Neither has she established with cogent evidence that her father paid

the consideration for the advancement of her marriage. The learned District Judge

has not addressed his mind to those aspects concerning law. Therefore, it is my

opinion that the plaintiff has failed to establish a constructive in terms of Section

84 of the Trusts Ordinance.

Learned President's Counsel for the plaintiff-respondent also submitted that

if this Court is of the opinion that there is no trust within the meaning of Section

84 of the Trusts Ordinance, the plaintiff could claim a constructive trust under

Section 96 of the Trusts Ordinance which is the residuary section to cover the

areas that are not referred to in the Sections found in Chapter IX of the Trusts

Ordinance. In support of his contention, he has referred to the case of Jonga v.

Nanduwa. [45 N.L.R. at 128] The issue in that case had been a situation where a

deed of sale was executed reserving a right to re-purchase the land subjected to in

that case by the transferor within a certain period of time. The issue in this case is

whether the person, who provided the consideration, intended the advancement of

the marriage between the plaintiff and the 1 st defendant though the plaintiff has

failed to establish such circumstances. Hence, I am unable to apply the decision

in Jonga V. Nanduwa (supra) to the case at hand.

12

For the aforesaid reasons, it is my opinion that the plaintiff in this case has

failed to establish a constructive trust in terms of Section 84 or even under

Section 96 of the Trusts Ordinance. Accordingly, the judgment dated 27.02.1998

of the learned District Judge of Mt.Lavinia is set aside. The amended plaint dated

30.05.1994 of the plaintiff is also dismissed. Considering the circumstances of

this case, I make no order as to the costs of this appeal.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

13

I,

! r ! t J

\ t I t