==== BLOCKS ==== 

{;

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A 90611993 (F)

G. W. P. Gunawardena of No. 48, Negombo Road, Mirigama, carrying on business under the name and style of Thilakamali Rice Mill

PLAINTIFF -APPELLANT

D.C. Homagama Case No. 54/M

BEFORE:

COUNSEL;

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J.

Vs.

Ceylon Steel Corporation Oruwala, Aturugiriya - substituted by Ceylon Heavy Industries & Construction Co. Ltd., Oruwala, Aturugiriya.

SUBSTITUTED-DEFENDANT -RESPONDENTS

Manohara de Silva P.C with G.W.c. Bandara For the Plaintiff-Appellant

Harsha Soza P.C., with S. Samaranayake For the Substituted Defendant-Respondent

26.09.2011

02.12.2011

, 2

GOONERATNE J.

This was an action filed in the District Court of Homagama on

a breach of contract claiming damages in a sum ofRs. 554,1401-. Defendant-

Respondent states that this action relates to a sale of goods transaction, and

Plaintiff filed action to recover Rs. 554,1401- as damages. It is the position

of the Plaintiff-Appellant at the trial that he relied on the representations

made in documents marked P2 & P7, and purchased a machine called or

described as "single pass rice husk-fired par boiler dryer machine". This

machine was manufactured by the Defendant Respondent (Steel

Corporation) and purchased by Plaintiff Appellant for a sum of Rs.

195,0001-. By P2 Defendant, represented in or about 1980 the following as

contained therein.

(a) price 195,0001-

(b) Machine parboils paddy instantly - dries it simultaneously in a continuous flow

process at the rate of 1 ton of paddy per hour

(c) Power of machine 3 motors of PH 50 H2 - 2 HP

(d) Finished product would be odorless lighter in colour with a pleasant taste in

cooked rice

(e) Guaranteed for 1 year - free services and repairs for 6 months

3

Documents P7 gives more details as a machine which at the same

process boil the paddy and dry it (atm ~o e) m®Q)eD (!e)@eD c.o~g)c.o) P7

includes an introduction, refer to new technology, special features, rice etc.

In brief the Plaintiff s case is that after the machine was

installed in the Plaintiff s premises, the machine failed to function and it had

to be repaired on numerous occasions by the Defendant and even after repair

the machine malfunctioned and could not function continuously.

Further even if the machine functions it failed to par boil the

paddy as represented by the Defendant as in P2 & P7. Plaintiff called upon

Defendant to take back the machine and pay the price paid together with

damages and Defendant failed to do so.

Parties proceeded to trial on 12 issues and 2 admissions.

(paragraphs 1, 2, 4 & 5 of plaint admitted and signature in document VI

admitted)

The attention of this court was drawn to several items of

evidence led at the trial. It is important for this court to consider the evidence

placed before the original court to ascertain the case of each party since the

factual position must be clearly established of each party. Plaintiff Appellant

refer to the evidence of one Abeywickrema an Engineer by profession

4

attached to the Paddy Marketing Board who produced report Pl. The

summary of the report include the following as emphasized by Plaintiff-

Appellant.

(a) quality of rice is reduced as ash and smoke escapes through the cylinder and get

mixed with paddy

(b) Temperature cannot be controlled. Paddy gets charred

(c) Ash particles and smoke emanates the area. Difficult to operate machine.

(d) Power failure or breakdown of machine results in paddy left in cylinder gets

charred.

( e) Paddy coming out of the dryer is hot and high in moisture. It had to be dried

further. No provision to dry it further.

The Plaintiff emphasis on the evidence of the above witness to

demonstrate that the machine sold does not confirm to the description in

document P2 & P7. Perusal of the cross-examination of this witness I find

that the Defendants have not been able to change the position of the witness

in any material aspect. Emphasis is on (b) above from this witness.

The witness of Plaintiff was one Ariyaratne of the Warakapola

Multipurpose Corporative Society. Witnesses evidence was brief and refer to

letter P3. Rice produced by this machine which he purchased for sale at the

Corporative Society had the following faults. Upon inquiry i.e over boils and

become sticky, grey in colour, rice mixed with ash and after wasting residue

remains. Stored rice got spoilt.

5

There is reference to the evidence of Bank witnesses to

demonstrate that Plaintiff obtained a loan from the Bank for the purpose of

the project (Rs. 175,0001-. The evidence of Plaintiff had been summarized in

the written submissions of the Appellant though at the trial Plaintiff had

given lengthy evidence to prove the several lapses of the machine inclusive

of material described above by the several witnesses called on his behalf.

Plaintiff according to evidence purchased the machine relying on the

representations made by P2 & P7. After placing an order the inventor Mr.

H.I. Fernando inspected the premises of Plaintiff where the machine was

installed and it was done according to the instructions of Mr. H.I. Fernando.

Plaintiff testify on the payments made, his investing money etc. the project

and transporting machine etc. He also refer in his evidence to all most all the

faults mentioned above

Plaintiff marked numerous letters he had sent to the Defendant

Corporation. Attention of Court is drawn to his letter dated 15.12.1981

marked P 12 which is addressed to the Chairman of the Defendant

Corporation in which he describes the poor quality of the rice produced by

this machine. He also produced letter dated 22.12.1981 marked P14, letter

dated 20.01.1982 marked P16. Attention of Court is also drawn to letter

marked P17 dated 08.02.1982 where Mr. H. I. Fernando the inventor had

6

informed the Plaintiff the modifications that they propose to do to the

machine inter alia to "eliminate fungus attack and over boiling". This letter

is an tacit admission of the faults of this machine. Attention of court is also

drawn to letter marked P24 which is a tacit admission of the fact that when

the normal quantity of water is used for cooking the rice is overcooked. This

is a letter by which the inventor is pleading with the Plaintiffs Bank to grant

concessions to the borrower (the plaintiff) until improvements are done to

the machine. This letter also shows that the machine is not up to required

standard.

The Appellant also comment on the evidence of the

Defendant's witness who was the inventor of the machine. (Pg 128 of

proceedings of 13.5.1986). That evidence disclose

(a) less water to be used when cooking rice

(b) explosion which occurred in the chamber of the machine.

(c) During wet season growth of fungus; suggest solution to prevent - Fix an

additional motor to dry.

(d) Admits faults in letter P16. Admits P17.

The important question that arises in this case, though a large volume

of evidence was led in the original court, is the question of documents P2

and P7 represent to the buyer important express terms which would be

7

contractually binding or whether the statements contained in P2 & p7 are of

a commendatory nature and not legally binding or that it does not fall

outside the pale of puffery. Wilmot vs. Sutherland 1914 C.P.D 873. Such

terms if it is so, induced the Plaintiff to enter into a contract and purchase the

machine? It is the Plaintiff s position that P2 & P7 represents terms of

contract which would make the Defendant-Respondent liable. In the written

submissions of Plaintiff-Appellant it is submitted that the learned District

Judge erred in his judgment for the following reasons.

(a) Judgment based solely on the evidence of witness Fernando the inventor and

failed to consider document PI and the evidence of Abeywickrema the Engineer.

(b) Judge's observation that Plaintiff failed to engage experienced persons to operate

the machine. Plaintiff stress it is not a pre-condition in the contract.

The Appellant has discussed the law applicable with several

authorities and also refer to several provisions of the Sale of Goods

Ordinance. (Though no issue was suggested in the original court) I will

consider the legal position having dealt with the case of Defendant-

Respondent.

The position of the Defendant-Respondent, gathered from the

pleadings and submissions of learned President's Counsel is that Plaintiff

had expressed satisfaction with the performance of the machine, that the

guarantee period having lapsed and as such Plaintiff has no right to make a

8

claim. It is also stated that Plaintiff failed to properly operate the machine.

Learned President's Counsel for Respondent stressed that Plaintiff came to

court not on the basis of violation of implied conditions set out in the Sale of

Goods Ordinance, and state it is for the first time in appeal that such a

position had been urged. He also states that there is a statutory bar in setting

out a different position (Explanation 2 of Section 150 of the Civil Procedure

Code). It was also contended that reference made in the advertisement in P2

& P7 are not express terms but tradesman's puffery which are not legally

binding. There is reference to an invitation to treat and an offer by citing

'Law of Contracts' by C.G Weeramantry pg. 110 Vol. I Therefore the

statements in P2 are not capable of being accepted.

The learned President's Counsel, I believe connecting Issue

Nos. 5 & 6 has taken up the following position in the written submissions.

Plaintiff-appellant is praying for a return of the purchase price, and damages. In paragraph 7 of

the plaint the plaintiff-appellant has pleaded that he has called upon the defendant-respondent to

take back the said machine.

Plaintiff-appellant is seeking to treat the contract as repudiated and reject the goods. The plaintiff-

appellant's claim for a return of the purchase price is on the basis that he is entitled to reject the

said machine. The plaintiff-appellant's position is fallacious and wrong.

Prof P.S. Atiyah in his book "The Sale of Goods" (fifth edition) states as follows at page 287 in

dealing with the topic of "Loss of the right to reject"

9

"Even though the seller may be guilty of a breach of condition and the buyer may prima

facie be entitled to repudiate the contract and reject the goods, he may in certain

circumstances lose this right, and be compelled to treat the breach of condition as though

it were a mere breach of warranty. He may, in other words, have to accept the goods, and

be content with a claim for damages."

At page 288 Atiyah also deals with the circumstance in which the buyer would lose the right to

reject the goods. Those circumstances are principally where the buyer has accepted the goods, or

where the contract is for specific goods, and the property in the said goods has passed to the

buyer - vide section 12(3) of the Sale fo Goods Ordinance.

There is reference in the written submissions of Respondent to

Section 12(3) & Section 35 of the Sale of Goods Ordinance. Another point

dealt in the written submissions of Respondent is the letter marked V 1 of

21.9.1981 written by Plaintiff. The following extract in VI is reproduced "I

certify that the performance of the machine is now up to the specification

given by the corporation". Was VI written after Plaintiff had ample

opportunity to examine the machine? Can it be said Plaintiff rejected the

machine within a reasonable time. By V2 (15.12.1981) Plaintiff attempted to

return the machine well over 1 year after purchase. Guarantee period lapsed.

Vide Section 35 & 12(3) of the Sale of Goods Ordinance.

The following are also noted:

The plaintiff-appellant is not entitled to the sum of Rs. 339,140/- claimed in

the plaint. That sum is claimed under different heads, namely, cost of

10

erecting the building, cost of installation of electrical equipment and interest

on loans from banks and other parties.

Don Maxwell Abeyratne, and official of the Commercial Bank, Wellawatte

testified that the plaintiff-appellant obtained a loan of Rs. 175,0001- to

purchase a motor car, and that the interest due on the said sum as at the date

he gave evidence is a sum of Rs. 55,465.84. This sum is not claimable from

the defendant-respondent because it falls outside the heads under which he

has claimed the said sum of Rs. 339,1401- as damages. The plaintiff-

appellant has taken the loan to buy a car.

The documents marked P5 and P6 were produced to show that a loan of Rs.

250,0001- has been taken from the Bank of Ceylon, Gampaha Branch to

establish the Rice Mill, and that interest is due on this loan. No evidence has

been placed before Court to prove that the money obtained on the said loan

was applied towards establishing the said rice mill. The plaintiff also said the

money he got upon retirement, namely, a sum of Rs. 42,542.65 from the

provident fund, a sum of Rs. 47,626.80 by way of commuted pension and a

sum ofRs. 14,000/- from the Welfare Society (vide page 114) were invested

in the said rice mill. There is no proof that the moneys allegedly obtained for

11

purposes of setting up the said Rice Mill were in fact utilized for the said

purpose.

Respondent also comment on the evidence of Salmansingho the

contractor who built the foundation of the rice mill. Respondent refer to P25

an estimate giving details of expenditure as a self serving document.

Estimate prepared after about 4 years from the date of construction.

Respondent severely criticize that the amount shown as Rs. 339,1401- part

on the erecting the building, electrical equipment etc. due by way of

damages cannot be claimed. A point stressed by the Respondent is that the

Plaintiff did not have or employed trained operators and it was essential to

have the machine operated by trained personnel. The Defendants witnesses

have testified that the machine could be controlled or heat generated could

be controlled. It is also stressed that documents marked VI, V9 & VI 0

negate fundamental breach. Defects were repaired during the guarantee

period. Respondent's position was that the machine was not properly

handled.

At the outset I note that this is a reconstructed record. One of

the important matters to be decided in this case is whether the material

contained in P2 & P7 contain express terms which a party could rely and a

12

breach of anyone or more of them would result in a breach of contract? Or

whether P2 & P7 is an advertisement which merely contains material for an

invitation to treat not capable of giving rise to a cause of action which

entitled Plaintiff to considered as a binding contract? On the other hand has

it been conveyed to a prospective buyer that the machine need to be properly

handled with expertise? Failure to do so would not result in a claim for

damages? Oral and documentary evidence indicate that during the guarantee

period the Defendant party attempted to rectify the defects. What would be

the conclusive effect of document VI? Or did the Defendant take mean

advantage in getting the Plaintiff to issue such letter by direct or indirect

means of compulsion.

I would firstly consider the matters contained in document P2

& P7. It is necessary to read the entirety of same. P2 reflect in large print as

Paddy Par Boiler/Drier. At the outset of this judgment I have referred to the

contents ofP2 & P7. Some relevant terms are included in P2 but all of them

are not express conditions. The term which state machine parboils paddy

instantly dries it simultaneously in a continuous flow process at the rate of 1

ton of paddy per hour cannot be taken lightly. It is an express term and that

would induce, prospective buyers to enter into a contract. Guarantee period

, 13

is another express term. It is arguable whether reference to the finished

product would be odorless lighter in colour with pleasant taste is an express

term. Document P7 gives more details and expands on P2. As stated above it

is my view that the contents of P2 & P7 refer to certain express terms and

items and breach of it would give rise to a claim, against the Defendant

Corporation since it is not mere representation.

A mere representation would not amount to an express term. It

cannot give rise to claim damages. These statements contained in P2 & P7

are not preliminary investigations or negotiations. The party making the

statement had special knowledge or skill as compared with the other party.

De la Salle Vs. Guildford 1901(2) KB 215.

Tradesmen's Puff - Law of Contracts - Vol. II pg. 564 Chapter

19 para 588 - C.G Weeramantry.

"Tradesmen's Puff." The importance of distinguishing between terms of a

contract and mere representations is brought out clearly in relation to statements

which are made by way of puffery. In order that an assertion regarding the quality

of goods should be regarded as a term of the contract, it is clear that it must fall

outside the pale of puffery. Expressions used by vendors in extolling the virtues of

their goods do not form a part of the contract, for exaggeration of merits and

suppression of defects are to be expected and guarded against by every reasonable

purchaser.

, 14

I would consider the gist of Plaintiffs evidence and itemise

same as follows:

( a) Machine sold in parts and it was given to plaintiff on 3.11.1980. Fitted by

Engineers and labourers of the Defendant Corporation.

(b) Machine operated on 23.2.1981 for the first time

(c ) Prior to purchase perused the notices pertaining to machine but machine did not

function properly according to the notices issued by Defendant Corporation.

(d) Complained by letters PIO (20.6.1981) - Defendant Corporation by PII (30.7.1981)

proposed to send a team to repair the machine

(e) Complained by PI2 (19.12.1981). A long letter suggesting a refund.

(f) Letter PI3 by Defendant Corporation about improving the machine and

requesting for a report from Plaintiff on the present condition of the machine.

(g) P 14 complaint by Plaintiff (depending on the advertisement it falls far short of the

advertised claim). Complain of quality of rice. Letter of inventor of machine

(PIS) suggestion to rectify faults by H.1. Fernando of Defendant Corporation PI6

complain of Plaintiff.

(h) PI7/PI8 letter by H.1. Fernando of Defendant Corporation Plaintiff complaint to

Minister (PI9). P21 letter of demand receipt of (P20) of purchase.

(i) Reasons for signing letter VI contained in P23 of 15.2.1982. Did not agree with

all contents in V I. The letter V I typed and brought to Plaintiff for signature by

Defendant Corporation in cross-examination of Plaintiff.

G) Machine operated as from 23.2.1981. Reject the records maintained by Defendant

Corporation that operation date was 301111981.

(k) Plaintiff had an operator to work the machine details of operator and how he was

selected. Reject suggestion of Defendant being critical of operator. (at a certain

point in the proceeding (folio 91 - 94) illegible)

(I) Folio 94 - Plaintiffs position VI. Plaintiff states his signature was obtained by

employees of Defendant Corporation what is recorded is that ... ~Q)c.o ~l;C)

fIl)om rn®~ ero®(S)6) ®}Q 7 fIl)C) acS®d e1 QfS)Q)fIl)a) ~~6). ®® ~~6) ®6)®E>.

15

®®G)65 ff~6) G)rnfl». e5 ffco c:>ffie5 &DO ®G)6) ff}e>}. ®® ff~65 00656) Q)l;em:;

tDE)e)>.

At folio 101 .... C)5)ffi&DCO ff~ &D(6) 00 ®®k9 @"'} ~® G)l;6) C)l;@@)&DC:> ~rn e SC)®d 6)l;5)l;. ff~65 (6)}&D@®5)}rn ®®&D ff@rne>l;ID",) 00es5®65 6)l;5)l; tDe>}. e5&DC:>

sC)tn ff@tDe>l;ID",} &DO~ ®e>6)rn Oll;6)tn 6)l;5)l;. e>® 8)0} ®® ff~65 &D@}.

The learned District Judge has in his judgment expressed the

VIew In so many words that an experienced person was not engaged to

handle the machine and such mishandling resulted in malfunctioning of the

machine. Original court seems to suggest a contributing factor and pass the

blame to the Plaintiff. I am unable to agree with the trial Judge's views on

this aspect. When I consider the oral and documentary evidence in this case

and concentrating more particularly on documents P2 & P7 there is no

express term or a pre-condition to engage qualified experienced persons.

Series of letters exchanged between parties indicate an inherent defect in the

machine. Nor can it be denied that the Defendant-Corporation from time to

time employed several of their staff to repair the machine. Not once but

several times. If experienced persons only could handle operations in this

machine that fact should have been conveyed to the Plaintiff either in P2 or

P7 and or in any other contemporaneous document. It appears to me that the

Defendant at a certain point realized their fault and attempted to blame the

, 16

Plaintiff in the manner suggested by the learned District Judge in his

judgment. In the commercial world in anticipation of litigation a party may

be advised to shift the blame. I reject the views of the learned District Judge

on this aspect. Trial and error attitude should not harm an innocent party,

who negotiated on the footing of facts conveyed by document P2 & P7.

Delay in submitting P I report cannot be held against the

Plaintiff. On P I alone this case cannot be decided. The learned District

Judge does not seem to reject documents PIO to PI9. As itemized in this

judgment regarding Plaintiffs evidence from (d) to (h) is sufficient to

conclude defects in the machine, which had been repaired by the Defendant

Corporation from time to time.

Another point referred to in the judgment is on document VI.

Trial Judge states that the Plaintiff failed to protest about VI. to a high

officer or a person in authority. One has to realize the predicament Plaintiff

faced. On one hand he was keen to get the project moving. He was on the

other hand had no option but to complain of defects. His explanation as to

the reason he placed his signature on a prepared document V I, by the

Defendant, is an acceptable explanation in the circumstances of this case. I

am unable to accept the trial Judge's views on same. To draw an adverse

, 17

conclusion on V 1 would be unreasonable in the circumstances of this case

since the machine had been subject to breakage and repaIr on many

occasions. VI is not a document to be accepted conclusively. In business

circles this type of method is very often employed to shut out an innocent

buyer. It is to be noted that subsequent to V 1 also Plaintiff complained about

defects.

In the judgment based on evidence trial Judge observes that the

Defendant Corporation had decided not to engage in the manufacturing of

this type of machine at a certain stage. One could arrive at a conclusion that

necessary inferences could be drawn as it may have been unprofitable for the

Defendant Corporation to embark on future sales. The case in hand

demonstrate the several continuous lapses in the machine which had to be

constantly repaired. Board of Directors decided to stop it's manufacture.

Board will decide what is best for the organization. I have reproduced the

following from the judgment.

Q: er~E3 e® COeDQ)co B)o~E)® 5>00 ~e@ ?

e: eroJm e>~ 6)Crlx>co CmDo» ®ecs)eD ereD@ e5»eOO 5>o)C ~e@.

Oo8eeDC~E>eDecs)eD ereD@ eemeE>E3. Trial Judge express his views at this point

(not supported with reasons or material) as ... e®oo e(8) co~e~ E»e~

18

QoQo)eE) etCJ~~ ®~@c,o (i)~ecs5 ®6>)oc'o et~ c'oes5~ed B>o~E)® ~

eenaJe>~ @~aorn e6>)OO 6)~)~ei)C,O 6>e>OO) et~O).

The other point is on controlling the heat generated. Witnesses

of the Defendant-Respondent attempt to demonstrate that there are methods

to control heat. All these methods should have been contemplated and

conveyed to the Plaintiff at least at the negotiation stage. As observed earlier

trial and error methods employed by the Defendant Corporation has

inconvenienced the buyer (Plaintiff) and caused him monetary losses. The

Plaintiff-Appellant relying on the important conditions referred to in P2 &

P7 invested a large sum of money at that time expecting a return by

purchasing the machine. It was not certainly in a good working condition,

which resulted in malfunctioning of the machine many times. Plaint was

filed on a breach of contract. Plaintiff for good reasons did not specifically

plead the provisions of the Sale of Goods Ordinance. This court observes

that there is a clear breach of conditions contemplated in documents P2 &

P7. Plaintiff-Appellant need to be compensated.

Whether one pleads the provisions of the Sale of Good

Ordinance or not, the transaction presented to court is no doubt a sale of

goods transaction. I need not rely solely on the Sale of Goods Ordinance, to

19

express the view that whatever items/goods sold should be of a merchantable

quality.

Merchantable quality means "that the goods in the form in which they were tendered

were of no use for any purpose for which goods which complied with the description

under which these goods were sold would normally be used, and hence were not saleable

under that description" (per Lord Reid in B.S. Brown & Sons Ltd. V. Craiks Ltd. (1970)

1 W.L.R. 752, 755). Consequently, goods are not of merchantable quality if, in the state

in which they are tendered. (1) they have defects unfitting them for their ordinary use, or

(2) their condition is such that no reasonable buyer, with knowledge of their true

condition, would accept them in performance of the contract. The fact that the defect can

be easily cured, e.g. by washing an irritant out of woolen underwear or by making some

trifling repair, is immaterial. Merchantable quality does not mean that there will be

purchasers ready to buy the goods, or that the goods will comply with the law of a foreign

country, so as to be saleable there. (Summer, Permain & Co. v. Webb & Co. (1922)1

K.B. 55).

The other aspect is the guarantee period. In the commercial

world seller attracts buyers by giving a guarantee period, for the items sold.

Whether such period was available or not, cannot excuse a seller who has

sold defective goods. Complaints made by the Plaintiff-Appellant seems to

be a continuous process and he encountered difficulty at various stages of

his project. What the Plaintiff-Appellant purchased was not as the seller

contracted in P2 & P7. As such one cannot take cover by referring to a

guarantee period, when damage and defects are apparent. When a buyer such

20

as the Plaintiff purchased a par boiler dryer milling machine, I take that

every representation made with regard to the texture and quality of the

machine, or product produced by the machine is something the Plaintiff

would take seriously. It has influenced the Plaintiff to purchase the machine.

It would go to the root of the fundamental obligation of the contract.

Plaintiff purchased this par boiler dryer machine, by necessary implication,

it should par boil and dry to the required expected standard. If not it would

be a violation of the fundamental obligation of the contracts. It is so in the

case in hand.

Weeramantry on Law of Contracts - Vol. II Pg. 583

We have already drawn attention to the importance of a term or condition

of a contract as compared with a mere representation. Furthermore, there is said to

be a component of the contract of yet greater importance than a term or condition,

for there is at the heart of every contract, a core of basic or fundamental

obligation, lacking or failing which the contract loses altogether its original

character and identity, and fails in its primary object. To this core of obligation,

more basic in its nature than a term or condition, is given the name fundamental

obligation ..... A fundamental obligation has been defined as 'something which

underlies the whole contract so that if it is not complied with the performance

becomes something totally different from that which the contract contemplates'.

If for example, a contract is entered into with a local authority for the supply of

electricity to a cinema hall, it would run counter to the main object and intent of

the contract if the local authority should be entitled, even deliberately and

wrongfully to interrupt the supply of electricity without cause. Again if graphite

'not warranted free from defects' is sold but is found to contain an admixture of

21

rock stone which damages the buyers machine, such a difference of substance

would not constitute a mere defect, but would render the substance delivered quite

different form that contracted for".

I am convinced that Plaintiff should be entitled in law for a

refund of the purchase price of Rs. 1, 95,0001- (The amount reflected in

P22). However I am not in a position to allow the expenses calculated by

Plaintiff on document P25. It is not a contemporaneous document. It has

been prepared after a lapse of time, which leave room for exaggeration.

Plaintiff should have maintained proper accounts from the out set to show

the expenditure. The loans obtained from Banks and retiral benefits received

by Plaintiff cannot be added, as I cannot find strong reliable evidence to

prove that money was applied towards establishing the rice mill and the

project.

In all the above circumstances I set aside the judgment of the

learned District Judge, and allow this appeal and enter judgment for

Plaintiff-Appellant in a sum of Rs. 1,95,0001- with legal interest from date of

plaint till payment in full. In the circumstances no order is made as to costs.

Appeal allowed subject to above directions.

Gt~ rs~-Q0

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL