==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

~ 1 I

~ J , 1

1

i I I '1 I 1 I I I i J

t j

J 1 j 1 I I I 1 I

~ I 1 I 1 ,

In the court of appeal of the Democratic Socialist

Republic of Sri Lanka.

Case No: CA 1029/96 F DC Ratnapura : 9855/P.

Collin Pulle Victor Pulle,

Kirimatithanna,

Balangoda.

1st Defendant-Petitioner-Appellant

W P R M Wijithawathie,

Kirimatithanna,

Balangoda.

W P R M Wimalawathie,

Kirimatithanna,

Salangoda

W P R M Heenmanike,

Kirimatithanna,

Salangoda

W P R M Wijepala,

Kirimatithanna,

Balangoda

6,7,8,9 Defendant-Petitioner-Appellants

Kuruppu A Wijewardena,

Kirimatithanna,

Balangoda

Petitioner-Appellant

Before : A.W.A. Salam, J.

Parties absent and unrepresented

Decided on: 24.01.2011.

•

A.W.Abdus Salam,J

Vs

K M Podihamine,

Kirimatithanna,

Balangoda

Plaintiff-Respondent

Josephin Pulle, Kirimatithanna,

Balangoda and several others

2nd to 13 Defendant-Appellants

•

This is a partition action in which judgment and interlocutory decree

have been entered as far back as in September 1996. In the meantime

the first defendant made an application by way of petition and affidavit,

praying that the shares allotted to 10th defendant be re-allotted to him.

Similarly, 6th, 7'h, ath,9th defendants and the person by the name K A

Wijewardena (Petitioner-Appellant) made an application that an

undivided 1/35 share be allotted to the said Petitioner-Appellant from

and out of the unallotted share of 1/14 share.

the ambit of section 48(4)a of the Partition Act.

Thereafter the learned district judge in the same impugned order

had considered the application of the 6th,7'h,8th and 9th Oefendant-

Petitioners. As has been correctly stated in the judgment, in order to

be entitled to unallotted shares the Oefendant- Petitioners should

have established their rights to them by way of evidence. As they

had failed to establish their rights to the unallotted shares or part of it

the learned district judge has rightly rejected the claim of 6th,7'h,8th

and 9th Oefendant- Petitioner petitioners as well.

On a perusal of the impugned order it appears that the learned

district judge has rightly rejected the application of all the appellants

and in any event the appellants should have challenged the

impugned order by way of and interlocutory appeal. For the above

reasons, I am of the firm view that this appeal merits no favourable

consideration. Hence, I am compelled to dismiss the appeal. As

parties absent and unrepresented, I feel that justice would be met if

no order is made with regard to costs.

Appeal dismissed.

~. Judge of the Court of Appeal

3