==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Court of Appeal No. 158/2011(PHC)

H.C.Badulia No. 33/2010(Rev) M.C.Passara No. 14477

BEFORE A.W.A. Salam J

Sunil Rajapakse J.,

R.M.Anurapala Kehelwatte, Lunugala

Respondent Petitioner vs

R.M.C.Jagath Ratnayake, KaRunika, Diulgaswatta, Gonagala, Passara

Complainant-Respondent

AND

R.M.C.Jagath Ratnayake, KaRunika, Diulgaswatta, Gonagala, Passara

Com pia ina nt-Respondent

Appellant

R.M.Arunasiri Kehelwatte, Lunugala

11th Respondent-Petitioner

Respondent

COUNSEL: Ranjith Meegaswatta for the Complainant Respondent Appellant

ARGUED ON: 26.07.2013

DECIDED ON: 22.01.2014

2

Sunil Rajapakse J.,

This is an application in Revision from the order dated 08.11.2011 made by

the High Court Judge of the Uva Province holden at Badulla dismissing an

application for Revision of an Order made by the Magistrate of Passara Magistrate

Court sitting as the Primary Court Judge on 29.04.2010.

After the inquiry the learned Magistrate of Passara made an order

awarding possession of the disputed land to the Petitioner-Appellant. Being

aggrieved by the said order the Respondent-Respondent made a Revision

application to the High Court of Badulla. Thereafter the Appellant tendered

objections and written submissions were tendered by both parties. The learned

High Court Judge in his Order dated 08.11.2011 set aside the learned Magistrate's

Order on the ground that there is no breach of peace or threatening or likely to

threaten. Further the learned High Court Judge ordered status quo to remain in

the disputed land. In this case the complainant Appellant sought to have the said

Order dated 08.11.2011 revised.

The grounds urged in the petition are that:

i) The High Court Judge had mis-directed himself in regard to the order

in not taking into consideration who should be in actual physical

possession of the disputed land two months prior to the date of

complaint to the police;

ii) The learned High Court Judge has not given due consideration in his

judgment regarding the breach of peace or imminent breach of

peace.

FACTS OF THIS CASE ARE BRIEFLY SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS:

The Appellant obtains income and profit from the disputed land

which he acquired by a Deed of Gift and he is in actual physical possession of the

land since 2007. Further the Appellant submitted that the Respondents had

forcibly entered to his land and took the possession of the said land on

3

08.12.2009. Thereafter the Appellant made a complaint to the Lahugala Police.

After the above incident when the Complainant-Respondent Appellant went to

his land on 14.12.2009 he found the Respondents clearing the disputed land.

Further the Appellant states that the Respondent threatened him with death and

continued to clean the land. Then the Appellant lodged a complaint to the

Lahugala Police on 14.12.2009. However, police did not take action against the

Respondents. Thereafter the Appellant has filed information by way of an

affidavit under Section 66(1)(b) of the Primary Court Procedure Act No. 44 of

1979 to the Passara Magistrate's Court. The Magistrate took up this matter for

inquiry on 11.02.2010 Thereafter the learned Primary Court Judge at the

conclusion of the inquiry found the fact that the Petitioner Appellant is in actual

possession of the disputed land and made an order on 29.04.2010 awarding

possession of the disputed land to the Appellant-Complainant.

Being aggrieved by the learned Magistrate's Order the Respondent filed a

Revision Application in the High Court of Badulla. At the High Court the

Respondent's position was that the said Magistrate Order is based on wrong

findings which had resulted in a wrong decision.

I shall now deal with the first ground on which the Order of the learned

High Court Judge has been challenged. It is the duty of the Judge, in an inquiry

under Section 66 to determine who was in actual possession of the land two

months prior to the filing of the first information under Section 68 of the Primary

Court Procedure Act. The primary Court Judge need not inquire into the question

as to how the possession was obtained. After analyzing the documents filed by

both parties I am of the view that the Magistrate has correctly stated that he

declares the Petitioner Appellant is entitled to possession of the land which is the

subject matter of this dispute. But the learned High Court Judge has not given due

consideration to Section 68 of the Primary Court Procedure Act and set aside the

learned Magistrate's Order. The basis of learned High Court Judge's Oder is that

the police complaint dated 14.12.2009 does not refer to a breach of peace or

4

imminent breach of peace and the Magistrate acted without jurisdiction. I don't

agree with the learned High Court Judge's findings. I am of the view that the

Petitioner Appellant's first complaint to the police clearly stated that the

Respondents threatened him with death. As per the complaint P4 dated

14.12.2009 filed in the Magistrate's Court reveals that the Respondents

threatened Appellant with death. Further I note that the learned High Court

Judge has not correctly considered this issue. Therefore I hold that the acts of the

Respondents lead to a breach of peace. The learned High Court Judge has

misdirected himself when he stated that there is no breach of peace or imminent

breach of peace.

Further I note that the learned High Court Judge has not made a proper

Order regarding the possession. In this regard I would like to quote the following

passage from the Order of the High Court Judge.

" (i®® ~~(iC) (ioafc®C)oz c~ C)G)CafO)oC))O C)G)CafO)oC)ozC)~

(i®® cg>C)® C!QcfOj C)~~ Q)C)C) oog~ c)S~ cg>~aoaf C)o qzOj (i@Q)®9 C)(SC)

qC)CJ)~C (iC)§ tS)a(i®~ (iO~ C~ Q)zC)~ §@ qC)dO)(iC)~® C)®C C)C)C)(i®

O)afafC)ccf .63<3i'C)0)C) OJ(iQ)~ Q)C)af oz~z~@C) <;,cf~C) (i~)(Sz(iQ)~ ~~

(i®® C)G)CafO)oC)ozC) ood~ ®O) OJ(iQ)~ qC3OjC))SC)® .63c®O) ~C)

qCjc)O®9Cc) ~~ ozC)a(i®~ (SQ») G)~~) (iO)cf C)~c C)d~C) oC)Oj~

q)C))O(iC~ ozC)~®C) .63(iciG) tS)a® CC)O) Q)C) (iO~ C~ Q)zC)~ ®)

C))~Oj(SO)) c~ O)C)af qc ~~aC) C)®(Soaf~ c~ O)C)af qc ~~(iC) c<;'~~

c)oz~ C)(SC) qC)CJ)~C (iC)§ tS)a(i®~ oaC) C)~c C)d~C) oC)Oj~

q)C))O(iC~® OjQ)c g~ Q)C)C) .63c® C)O®. Status quo should remain as it is."

The learned High Court Judge in his order directed that status quo will

remain in the disputed land. He has not made an order regarding who should be

in possession of the disputed land. Further I hold since there had been no

objection by the Respondents during the surveying of the disputed land, the

/ I I

5

Magistrate had correctly adjudicated that the Appellant had been in possession of

the disputed land prior to the first complaint. I am of the opinion that the learned

High Court Judge's order dated 08.11.2011 is contrary to the law and the facts in

this case. Therefore the learned High Court Judge's order amounts to an error in

law. Further I have gone through the proceedings before the High Court and note

that the Respondent-Respondent has not established an exceptional

circumstances in the High Court. The learned High Court Judge has not properly

considered this matter. In these circumstances I hold that the learned High Court

Judge was in error when he decided to set aside the judgment of the learned

Primary Court Judge.

For the above reasons we set aside the judgment of the learned High Court

Judge dated 08.11.2011 and affirm the Order of the learned Primary Court Judge

dated 29.04.2010.

Appeal is dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Salam J.,

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

I

(I