==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA 462/96 (F) DC Kagalle No. 23113/P

BEFORE : A. W.A SALAM J.

Egodawatte Heenatipone Gedera Kiribanda of Muruthalawa, Mawanella.

2nd Defendant-Appellant.

Vs. l.Henaka Railage Agnus Podimenike of Randiwela Mawanella.

Plaintiff - Respondent. 2.Egodawatt e Heenatipone Gedera Mudiyanse of Yatimahana, Baddewela.

1st Defendant-Respondent

: Parties are absent and unrepresented. DECIDED ON : 27.03.2012.

•

A W A SALAM, J.

2nd defendant-appellant has preferred the present appeal

t the judgment and interlocutory decree entered on 19th

July 1996 to partition the subject matter of the action among the

plaintiff, 1 st defendant and the 2nd defendant. The land sought to

1

, I

\

be partitioned by the plaintiff is depicted in the preliminary plan

bearing No 100 dated 18th February 1982 made by PAR Perara

Licensed Surveyor as lots 1 and 2. The 1st and 2nd defendants

maintained that the land sought to be partitioned should be lots

1,2 and 3 depicted in plan number 591 made by P B Wijesundera,

Licensed Surveyor. The learned District Judge came to the fmding

that the land sought to be partitioned has been correctly depicted

as lots 1, 2 and 3 in plan No 591 dated 18th August 1987 made by

P B Wijesundera. The learned District Judge in her judgment gave

reasons as to what compelled her to reject the position of the

plaintiff that the land depicted in plan X does not form the corpus.

Having considered the deeds produced in the action and the two

plans produced by the plaintiff and the 3rd defendant the learned

district judge has rightly come to the conclusion that the land

sought to be partitioned consist of lots 1,2 and 3 in plan 591. I do

not see any reasons to find fault with the judgment of the learned

district judge with regard to the point of contest relating to the

identity of the corpus.

As far as the devolution of title is concerned the plaintiff took.up

the position that the original owner of the subject matter was one

Appuhamy who died leaving 4 children by the name Kirihamy alias

Kiri Banda, Mudianse, Hethuhamy and Ranhamy each one

inheriting an undivided 1/ 4th share from and out of the corpus.

The undivided rights of Kirihamy alias Kiri Banda and Sethuhamy

on a chain of title set out in the plaint and spoken to by the

plaintiff in his evidence has devolved on the plaintiff and therefore

2

I,

the plaintiff has become entitled to an undivided Y2 share of the

land. The rights of Mudianse and Ranhamy have devolved on one

Sethuhamy who died leaving the 1 st and the 2nd defendant who

thus became entitled to 1/ 4th share each. The learned district

judge having considered the evidence rejected the position that the

original owner died leaving 3 children. I do not see any reason to

interfere with the said fmding of the learned district judge.

As regards the claim made by the 3rd defendant with regard to the

alleged right of way the learned district judge has come to the

conclusion that he has failed to establish such a right and therefore

rejected that the 3rd defendant had ever used a roadway over and

across the subject matter of the action. Taking into 'consideration

the fmdings relating to the identity of the corpus, the devolution of

title and the inability on the part of the 3rd defendant to establish

his claim for a right of way over and across the land, I do not think

they call for any intervention by this court. In the circumstances, I

affrrm the impugned judgment and the interlocutory decrees

entered in the case and dismiss the appeal preferred by the 2nd

defendant appellant subject to costs. •

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

Vkg/-

3

\

I

I