==== BLOCKS ==== 

In the Court of Appeal of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

CA 1269/96F DC Horana 3316/M

Before: A W A Salam J

Parties absent and unrepresented

Decided on: 01.06.2011.

1. Y D J ayasena 2. C. Wijegunawardena 3. T A Charles All of Godaporagaha Junction, Millawa

Defendant-Appellants

Vs

YakdehigeDon Edwin Charles

Godaporagaha Junction, Millawa

Deceased-Plaintiff-Respondent

Yakdehige Asoka Rohana Jayathilaka

Substituted-Plaintiff-Respondent

CA 1269/96F DC Horana 3316/M Judgment 01.06.2011

A W A Salam,J

'J""his is an action for damages resulting from the bodily pain

1 and discomfort caused to the plaintiff by the defendants.

The plaintiffs case is that the defendants pulled him out of his

boutique by placing a rope around him and thereafter dragged

him to the lamppost in front of his boutique and threw red ants

at him to be seen by a crowd of around 200 to 300 people most

of whom were schoolchildren from the vicinity who were

returning from school. The plaintiff claimed that the acts of the

defendants were aimed at bringing him into ridicule and

contempt in the eyes of the general public. The defendants

denied the allegation.

At the trial the plaintiff gave evidence and his version was

sufficiently corroborated by his wife. The wife of the plaintiff

satisfactorily identified the defendants as being the persons who

were present at the scene where her husband was tied up and

subjected to the torture complained of.

Even though the 1st defendant in this evidence stated that the

plaintiff was seen drunk almost every day at Millawa Junction,

CA 1269/96F DC Horana 3316/M Judgment 01.06.2011

,

this position was never put to the plaintiff or his wife when they

testified.

In the course of presenting the case on behalf of the plaintiff it

came to light that the he had made a prompt statement to the

police with regard to the alleged torture. The learned trial judge

having analyzed the evidence adduced on behalf of both parties

accepted the version of the plaintiff as being more probable. The

findings of the learned district judge on the pivotal questions are

based on the credibility of the witnesses who testified before

him. The approach adopted by the learned district judge in

deciding as to which version is more probable does not appear to

be blamed worthy.

Taking into consideration the evidence led at the trial and the

findings of the learned district judge, I see no reason to interfere

with the findings of the learned district judge. Consequently,

this appeal stands dismissed subject to costs.

Judgment and decree entered in the lower court are affirmed.

~-. Judge of the Court of Appeal

CA 1269/96F DC Horana 3316/M Judgment 01.06.2011