==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA 62/95 F

DC Kuliyapitiya 59601L

BEFORE: A.W.A SALAM, J.

COUNSEL:

E 5 M Mohamed Cassim Marikkar, Crescent Lodge, Puttlam. Plaintiff-Appella nt

Vs

M A Peter Appuhamy, Poogalla, Kithalawa,

Mahappuge Jinadasa, ESM Estate, Poogalla, Kithalawa

Defendant-Respondents

Farook Miskin and Anoma De Silva for the plaintiff-appellant

and Jacob Joseph with S Senanayaka for the

defendant-respondents

ARGUED

DECIDED ON

: 28.10.2010.

: 16.03.2012.

cn0082

A W Abdus Salam, J

The plaintiff-appellant filed action against the

defendant-respondents for a declaration of title to the land

and premises described in the schedule to the plaint,

ejectment and for damages at Rs.1 00 / - per month. The

1st and 2nd defendant-respondents filed answers and

averred that they are tenants and also that under the Land

Reform Law the subject matter in question is vested with

the Land Reform Commission.

The 2nd defendant-respondent in addition maintained that

t due to a settlement entered before the conciliation board in

the area the plaintiff cannot maintain the action as against

him. As far as the title of the plaintiff is concerned the

plaintiff pleaded that he has become entitled to the subject

matter of the action by virtue of the final decree entered in

a partition action as is evident from the document marked

Pl. The plaintiff has made a statutory declaration in terms

of Section 18 of Act No 1 of 1972 on 21 November 1972 and

in that declaration the land which is the subject matter of

the action has not been included. As is evident from

document marked as 205, the plaintiff has been granted

permission to retain 50 acres of land in Putlam. In the

circumstances, the reasoning of the learned district judge

In his judgement that the plaintiff is not entitled to any

other land than what he has been granted, cannot be

faulted. In the circumstances, the judgement of the

learned district judge is affirmed and the appeal is

dismissed without costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal