==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 714/96 F

D.C. Colombo No. 8010/ MHP

Alliance Finance Company Ltd.

No. 34, Ward Place,

Colombo 07.

Plaintiff

Vs.

1. Nuwarapassa Padiduralage Gunendra,

No. 30, De Mel Road,

Lakshapathiya, Moratuwa.

2. Kottearachchige Matinas Samsan Perera,

No.14, Hospital Road, Kadana.

3. Muthumuni Karunawathie,

No. 30, De Mel Road,

Lakshapathiya, Moratuwa.

Defendants

AND NOW BETWEEN

1. Nuwarapassa Padiduralage Gunendra,

No. 30, De Mel Road,

Lakshapathiya, Moratuwa.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

3. Muthumuni Karunawathie,

No. 30, De Mel Road,

Lakshapathiya, Moratuwa.

1 st 3rd Defendant Appellant

Vs

Alliance Finance Company Ltd.

No. 34, Ward Place,

Colombo 07.

Plaintiff Respondent

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

Daya Guruge for the 1 st and 3rd Defendant Appellants

Nadvi Babandeen for the Plaintiff Respondent

18.10.2011

04.11.2011

This is an appeal preferred by the 1st and 3rd Defendants Appellants

(hereinafter referred to as the Appellants) from the judgement of the learned

Additional District Judge of Colombo dated 01.11.1996. The facts of the case are

briefly as follows;

•

3

The Plaintiff Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the Respondent)

instituted the said action against the 1 st, 2nd and 3 rd Defendant in the District Court

of Colombo to recover the sums of money as prayed for in prayer (a), (b), (c) and

(d) of the plaint which was due on a hire purchase agreement. The Appellants in

their answer took up the position that the vehicle which was the subject matter of

the said hire purchase agreement was robbed by the terrorists and due to the

negligent and careless manner in which the alleged vehicle had been insured the

value of the vehicle could not be recovered from the insurer.

The Appellants contended that the vehicle was robbed at Valachchenai and

since the Respondent had failed to insure the vehicle against robbery there had

been no liability cast upon the Appellants for the payment of instalments.

The Respondent contended that the Appellants had failed to prove the fact

that the vehicle was robbed at Valachchenai. The Appellants in their evidence said

that they made a complaint to Valalchchenai Police. But they did not produce a

copy of the said complaint at the trial. Apart from that there had been no any other

documentation to prove that the Appellant had informed the robbery to the

Respondent Company. Hence I am of the view that the learned Additional District

Judge has correctly answered to issues No. 09, 10 and 11.

On the other hand in view of the fact that the Appellants have failed to prove

the alleged robbery the question of insurance does not arise.

Accordingly I find no reason to interfere with the said judgement of the

learned Additional District Judge dated 01.11.1996. Therefore I dismiss the instant

appeal of the Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal