==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA Writ No.259/2012

S H Firdous, No. 69, Al-Jeddah, Thillaiyadi, Puttalam. And 02 others

Petitioners Vs. Mr. Laxman Hulugalle, Director General, National Secretariat For Non-Governmental Organizations, 3rd floor, Sethsiripaya, Battaramulla. And 7 others

Respondents

1

C.A. Writ Appln. No. 259/2012

Before

Counsel

Argued & Decided on

S. Sriskandarajah, J (PICA)

M. Nizam Kariapper with A.M. Faiz, M.C.M. Nawas and M.I.M. Iynullah for Petitioners.

Anusha Samaranayake, S.S.C., for A.G.

14.03.2013.

*********

S. Sriskandarajah, J (PICA)

The petitioners are trustees of fund called

Community Trust Fund which 1s a nongovernmental organization

established in 1993 and was registered with the Ministry of Social

Service. The 1st respondent Director General of National Secretariat for

nongovernmental organization. The 3rd, 4th and 5th Respondents were

nominated as members of a board of inquiry appointed to inquire into

a complaint received in relation to the said trust fund. The said board

of inquiry was appointed under the Voluntary Social Services

Organization (Registration and Supervision) Act No. 31 of 1980 as

amended. The board of inquiry submitted an interim report and sought

further time to conclude their inquiry. Before any decision on the said

request was made and the inquiry was pending the Chairman and

2

members were appointed for an interim board of management to

administer the affairs of Community Trust Fund under Section 14A of

the Voluntary Social Services Organization Registration and

Supervision of Act No. 31 of 1990 and it is published in gazette extra

ordinary No.1723/3 dated 12.09.2011 (marked as 14A to the amended

petition). Under section 14A of the said Act as amended the minister

after the receipt of the report of the board of inquiry constituted

under section 11 and after satisfying that there is evidence to support

any allegation or fraud or misappropriation made against the said

voluntary organization and if the minister is satisfied that the fraud or

misappropriation is of such a nature as would affect the final

management of the organization and that the public interest will suffer

if such organization is continued to carry on its affair. Then only the

minister is empowered under the said section to appoint an interim

board of management by order published in the gazette for the

purpose of administering the affairs of such voluntary organization.

In this instance the board of inquiry constituted

under section 11 has only submitted an interim report and has sought

time to submit a full report and before obtaining the report and

considering the same the minister had appointed an interim board of

management which is contrary to Section 14A of the said law and as

such the said order of appointing the interim board of management

is ultra vires to the said provisions of the said section. And the

learned Senior State Counsel who is appearing for the 1st to 5th

Respondents concedes to the position that the said gazette notification

3

could be quashed as the appointment of the board of management is

premature . As the appointment of board of management is premature

the said decision to appoint the board of management is quashed by

this Court by a writ of certiorari. This is without prejudice to the

rights of the board of inquiry to continue with the relevant inquiry

and to submit the report to the Minister. The application is allowed

without costs.

President of the Court of Appeal

AKNI-