==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A.218/2010 H.C. Kandy Case No: Jury 1570/95

Hene Gedara Wijedasa Alias Wedikkaraya No: 116, Weheragalagama, Madakandayaya, Handungamuwa.

Appellant Vs. The Hon. Attorney General Attorney General’s Department Colombo 12.

Respondent

C.A.218/2010

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

H.C. Kandy Case No: Jury 1570/95

Sisira J. de Abrew,J. (Acting PICA) &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

Priyantha Deniyaya for the Accused-Appellant.

Haripriya Jayasundara DSG. for the Respondent.

03.12.2013

********

Sisira J. de Abrew,J. (Acting PICA)

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases. The accused-

appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of a man named Pahala

Gedara Seeda and was sentenced to death. Being aggrieved by the said

conviction and the sentence he has appealed to this Court. Facts of this case

may be briefly summarised as follows:

On the day of the incident around 11.00 p.m. the accused-appellant

was seen inside the house of the son of the deceased person. He was

armed with a gun and a knife. When the son and the nephew of the

deceased person saw the accused-appellant in the house of the deceased

person, they started talking and walking. The deceased person too woke up

1

<

I

at this time. On being told that the accused-appellant was inside the house

vof the son of the deceased person which was very closcrf to the house of the

deceased person, the deceased person scolded him saying that he was a

person who creeps into houses in the night. He also used filth language

and some words relating to certain cast. Thereafter, the accused-appellant

challenged the deceased person saying that "come out of the house if you

are so smart". The deceased person at this time came out of the house

carrying a club. The accused-appellant at this stage, shot at the deceased

person. Thereafter, the accused person stabbed the deceased person. The

son and the nephew of the deceased person who saw the incident ran away

from the place and informed the nearby Police post. The accused-appellant

could not be arrested immediately. He was arrested 10 days after the

incident. A gun and a knife were recovered by the Police consequent to a

statement made by the accused-appellant. The accused-appellant in his

dock statement said that the evidence given by the prosecution witnesses

was false and he was innocent. The most important question that must be

decided in this case is whether the accused-appellant was provoked by the

words spoken by the deceased person and whether the accused-appellant in

a state of grave and sudden provocation committed the murder of the

deceased person. The accused-appellant has gone to the house of the son of

the deceased person in the night. The son of the deceased person at this

time was a married person. If the accused-appellant behaved in the

manner described by the prosecution witnesses, one cannot expect him to

suffer from grave and sudden provocation by the above words spoken by the

deceased person. Further the accused-appellant does not even, in his dock

2

I1I

II

tIII

1

statement, admit that he heard the words spoken by the deceased person. J

The accused-appellant after killing the deceased person had gone to the

house of Dingiri Banda and addressed the wife of Dingiri Banda in the

following " I have killed Seeda. Where is Dingiri Banda? I would kill him

too". When we consider the entire evidence led at the trial we are of the

opinion that the accused-appellant has not suffered from grave and sudden

provocation when he committed the murder of the deceased person. We are

therefore of the opinion that the accused-appellant is not entitled to the

defence of grave and sudden provocation. We have considered the evidence

led at the trial. The fact that the accused-appellant shot the deceased was

witnessed by the son and the nephew of the deceased person. There is no

reason to disbelieve the two witnesses. We are of the opinion that the

prosecution has proved its case beyond reasonable doubt. We therefore

refuse to interfere with the judgment of the learned trial Judge. We affirm

the conviction and the sentence and dismiss this appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Jmrj

3