==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. 19/98(F) D.C. Matugama Case No: 1899/P

Sidni Horden De Alwis Senevirathna Kuru Welakatiya, Welipanna.

Appellant

Vs. Indrani Somalatha Gorakaduwa, Palawatte.

Respondent

C.A. 19/98(F)

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED& DECIDED ON

K.T. CHITRASIRI,J.

1

D.C. Matugama Case No: 1899/P

K.T. CHITRASIRI, J.

Ranjan Suwandaratne with Dinoo Dhannaratne for the

1st Defendant- Appellant.

Rohana Deshapriya for the Substituted 3rd Defendant-Respondent.

07.06.2013

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the judgment dated 18.12.1997. By that

judgment, learned District Judge of Matugama dismissed the plaint filed in order to

have a partition of the land referred to in the plan marked 'X' in evidence. (Vide

page 61 in the brief) Both Counsel submitted that the dismissal of the action is on the

basis that the land sought to be partitioned belongs to the Land Reform Commission.

This is clearly evident by the following sentence found in the judgment.

CG)JC)()c". (page 131 of the brief/page 3 in the judgment).

Learned District Judge has come to the aforesaid conclusion despite the fact

that there had been an application seeking to add the Land Reform Commission a

party to the action. The said application had been filed by its petition dated

24.11.1997 and the minute bearing number 54 had been made to that effect on

25.11.1997. Therefore, it is clear that the impugned judgment has been pronounced

2

dismissing the action without making an order on the application made pending the

judgment to add the Land Reform Commission as a party to the action.

In the cases of Galagoda Vs mohideen, [40 NLR 92] Gunathilake Vs

Muriel Silva, [79(1) N.L.R. 481}, Kularatne Vs Ariyasena}, [2001 B L R .Pg.6}

Richard and another Vs Seibel Nona [2001 (2) SLR1} Abeysinghe Vs

Kumarasinghe [2008 B L R 300}, it was held that under Section 25 of the Partition

Act, a duty is cast upon the trial Judge to investigate title of the parties in a partition

action. In this instance, both Counsel appearing for the appellant as well as the

respondent, submitted that an officer from the Land Reform Commission has

testified in Court as to an inquiry held, to determine whether the land sought to be

partitioned belongs to the land Reform Commission or not. The said inquiry had

been stayed due to the pendency of this partition action.

Pursuant to the said evidence of the officer from the Land Reform

Commission, an application has been made to add the L R C as a party to the action

and has sought permission of Court to file its statement of claim. It had not been

looked into at all. Judgment has been delivered while pending the said application.

Both Counsel submit that it is wrong to have dismissed the action stating that the

land sought to be partitioned belongs to the Land Reform Commission when there

was an application by the Land Reform Commission itself to become a party to the

action.

In the circumstances, it is clear that the learned District Judge has not given

an opportunity for the Land Reform Commission to present its claim to Court. It

3

amounts to a failure on the part of the learned Trial Judge to perform his duty in

terms of Section 25 of the Partition Act.

For the aforesaid reasons, the judgment dated 18.12.1997 of the learned

District Judge is set aside. Learned District Judge of Matugama is directed to

consider the application dated 24.11.1997 made by the Land Reform Commission

and to proceed with the action from that point onwards.

Subject to the above directions, appeal is allowed without costs.

Appeal allowed without costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Jmr/-