==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A. 28711998 (F) D.C. Colombo 3426/Spl.

S. A. I. A. Haleem P.O. Box 4104, Dubai, United Arab Emirates

PLAINTIFF

Vs.

The Attorney General Colombo 12.

DEFENDANT

And between

The Attorney General Colombo 12.

DEFENDANT -APPELLANT

Vs.

S. A. I. A. Haleem P.O. Box 4104, Dubai, United Arab Emirates

PLAINTIFF -RESPONDENT

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERA TNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J.

M. Goonetilleke S.S.C. for the Defendant-Appellant

Plaintiff-Respondent is absent and unrepresented

27.01.2012

15.05.2012

2

This is an appeal by the Hon. Attorney General who was the

Defendant in the District Court case. Plaintiff-Respondent filed action for a

declaration that the forfeiture of 182 gold slabs were wrongful, unlawful and

contrary to law, and also to be declared owner of the said gold slabs.

Plaintiff in the prayer has also moved court for the return or delivery of the

gold slabs and damages in a sum of Rs. 1, 000.000/- with interest. According

to the available material on 22.9.1991 the Plaintiff was a transit passenger at

the Katunayake International Airport en route to Madras from Dubai and

that he was in possession of 182 gold slabs on 25.9.1991 the above gold

3

slabs were forfeited and a penalty of 3 times the value of the gold being Rs.

35,014,918/- was imposed by the Customs Authority on the Plaintiff-

Respondents. Thereafter this amount had been mitigated to Rs. 2,500,0001-

It is the position of the Appellant that the Plaintiff-Respondent

had instituted a separate action in the District Court of Negombo. D.C. No.

75571M) on the same facts and same relief. When the Colombo District

Court case was taken up the Negombo District Court case had been laid by.

Parties proceeded to trial on 5 admissions (forfeiture, penalty imposed and

it's mitigation to a sum of Rs. 2.5 million paid by Plaintiff, notice and

security for costs) and 21 issues.

The Plaintiff at the trial led the evidence at 3 witnesses. Two

receipts PI & P2 had been produced at the trial to prove his claim but the

Defendant met this position on the basis that PI & P2 had not been produced

at the time of detection or at the Customs Department inquiry. PI & P2 were

objected by the Defendant-Appellant and no clear answers were given by the

Plaintiff about same. Nor were the documents proved subsequently.

Evidence led demonstrate that the gold in his possession was taken by him to

India for his future to be used for his daughter's marriage. No application

had been made by Plaintiff or permission obtained for possession of gold.

Plaintiff simply relied on a broker who got the gold for him and Plaintiff

4

believed the broker as regards the necessary authorization. Proceedings also

indicate certain contradictins (D 7a to D7g) on statements made by plaintiff

to Customs Officers on 21.9.1991. Statement D5 & D6 were admitted. It

appears that Plaintiff admitted that he had no permission or authority from

the Central Bank of Sri Lanka or the Controller of Exchange to bring gold to

this country.

On behalf of the Defendant about 3 witnesses had gIven

evidence to support the detection and forfeiture of gold. There was direct

evidence of the witness that Plaintiff concealed gold in the waste-coat worn

as an undergarment. Witness of the Defendant questioned the Plaintiff on

suspicion and searched the Plaintiff and detected all the gold slabs.

Defendant had closed the case reading in evidence documents Dl - D12. It

was the position of the learned Senior State Counsel for the Defendant-

Appellant that the trial Judge had erred and misdirected on very many

material points of fact and law. He submitted inter alia that trial Judge was in

grave error on the question of Jurisdiction of Courts.

The ground of appeal are more particularly contained in

paragraph 11 of the Petition of Appeal. It would be necessary to incorporate

same in this judgment as follows, in view of the fact that certain basic errors

5

are highlighted in the judgment as submitted to this court by learned Senior

State Counsel.

(a) the learned District Judge erred in the detennination of the Issue 7, namely

whether the District Court of Colombo has jurisdiction to entertain the Plaint of the Plaintiff and/or to hear and detennine this action.

(b) The learned District Judge erred by not considering the legal effect of the D.C.

Negombo case already instituted by the Plaintiff and which had been laid by.

(c) The learned District Judge erred by detennining that the District Court of

Colombo has territorial jurisdiction to hear this case on the basis that the Defendant being the Attorney General, has his office in Colombo.

(d) The learned District Judge erred on questions of fact and law in holding against

the Defendant-Appellant on the Issue of Prescription.

(e) The learned District Judge erred by detennining that the gold was seized as

forfeited on 25th September 1991, and not on the 21 5t September 1991.

(f) The learned District Judge erred by on questions of both facts and law in holding

and detennining that PI & P2 documents as proved.

(g) The learned District Judge failed to consider the imperative requirements set out

in section 154 of the Customs Ordinance.

(h) The learned District Judge failed to consider the fact that the Plaintiff-Respondent

was in fact in the process of leaving the airport to enter into the country when the detection was made, and therefore could not be considered or treated as a transit passenger.

(i) The learned District Judge has considered irrelevant and immaterial facts in

making the aforesaid order and has also considered matters of hearsay, uncorroborated and unsubstantiated matters.

(j) The learned District Judge misdirected himself on the admissibility of admissions

made by a party to the action and as such erred in law by refusing the Defendant's application to lead in evidence such statements

(k) The learned District Judge misdirected himself when considering the credibility of

witnesses.

(1) The learned District Judge misdirected himself and erred in law and in fact by

awarding Rs. 100000/= as prayed for in prayer (e) of the Plaint, as evidence had not been led in this regard.

6

I have considered the oral and very comprehensive written

submissions of the Defendant-Appellant as presented by learned Senior State

Counsel. I am of the view that the trial Judge was in very grave error on the

jurisdiction aspect as challenged by the Defendant-Respondent. I agree with

the leaned State Counsel that the office of the Hon. Attorney General by any

sense of imagination, be said to be the residence of the Attorney-General,

merely because the office of the Attorney General is within the territorial

jurisdiction of the District Court of Colombo, would not certainly satisfy the

residence requirement under section 9 of the Civil Procedure Code. It is

ridiculous to arrive at a conclusion that the office of the Attorney General is

within the jurisdiction of Court.

Blue Diamond Ltd. Vs. Amro Bank 1993 (2) SLR 249 at

264/265. The question relating to 'residence' of a corporate personality was

examined. The learned trial Judge went completely wrong in his reasoning.

The judgment of the Original Court is nothing but a perverse judgment.

I also refer to the following as regards jurisdiction, as described

in the written submissions.

The evidence presented in this case by both the Plaintiff and the Defendant

clearly establishes that the Plaintiff arrived at the Katunayake International

Airport, the detection of gold was made at the said Airport, the seizure of the gold

as forfeited to the state took place at the said Airport, the subsequent customs

7

inquiry took place at the said Airport and the declaration of forfeiture also took

place at the said airport.

Accordingly it will be clear to court that all facts relating to the transaction

which resulted in this present action, have taken place at the Katunayake

International Airport. Clearly, the said Airport is outside the territorial limits of

the jurisdiction of this court. As such, it cannot be said that the cause of action

allegedly set out in the plaint arose within the territorial limits of the jurisdiction

of this court.

There is also reference to non-compliance of Section 154 of the

Customs Ordinance. Such section requires.

(a) notice be given to Director General of Customs or other officer to enable Plaintiff

to claim, within 1 month of seizure.

(b) Give cash security.

(c) Institute action within 30 days of cash security and notice.

The detection was made on 21.9.1991. there is ample evidence on that

aspect. As such I have no hesitation in endorsing the views expressed by

Senior State Counsel - vide Shiabdeen V s. A.G 1978 - 79 (2) SLR 1 at pgs.

4/5. As such clearly the evidence indicate non-compliance with Section 154

of the Customs Ordinance.

Another important observation is on documents D5 & D6. The

following inferences are drawn.

(1) Total contradictions of each other statement of Plaintiff-Respondent.

(2) Admission of Plaintiff he is not the owner of gold slabs.

(3) Gold taken over from one Sheriff to be taken to Madras. Payment produced for

the task.

\

8

I find evidence and material placed before court on a variety of

matters which in fact damage the case of the Plaintiff-Respondent and the

trial Judge has simply ignored the bulk of evidence and the firm legal

provisions contained in the Customs Ordinance and the Exchange Control

Law. Both laws need to be strictly interpreted. It is very unfortunate that the

trial Judge thought it fit to enter judgment in favour of the Plaintiff without

cogent reasons. It is a perverse judgment, which has ignored very basic facts

and applicable/relevant statutory provisions. This is a civil case where very

many admissions were recorded. Plaintiff admitted that he has no

permit/licence or other authority to deal with gold slabs. Central Bank or the

Controller of Exchange had not issued or given any authority to the Plaintiff

to deal in the way he dealt his case according to his own pleadings.

Plaintiff s own evidence and version would offend his own case.

In all the above facts and circumstances of this case I set aside

the judgment of the learned District Judge dated 5.l2.l997, and grant all the

relief prayed for in the Petition of Appeal.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL