==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

J

, 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI

LANKA

Case No. CA{PHC) 63/2008

H.CR/l0/2007

M.M.A. Moomin

No. 15, 8th Lane, Kankanikulam

Street, Puttalam

Petitioner

Vs

S. Nazeer

No. 13/1, 8th Lane, Kankanikulam

Street, Puttalam

Respondent

AND

M.M.A. Moomin

No. 15, 8th Lane, Kankanikulam

Steet, Puttalam

Applicant-Petitioner

Vs

S. Nazeer

No. 13/1, 8th Lane, Kankanikulam

Street, Puttalam

Respondent-Respondent

2

AND NOW

S. Nazeer

No. 13/1, 8th Lane, Kankanikulam

Street, Puttalam

Respondent-Respondent-Appellant

Vs

M.M.A. Moomin

th . No. 15, 8 Lane, Kankanikulam

Puttalam

Applicant-Petitioner-Respondent

BEFORE A. W.A.SALAM J.,

SUNIL RAJAPAKSE J

Both parties absent and unrepresented

ARGUED ON: 29.11.2013:

DECIDED ON: 01.08.2014

Sunil Rajapaksa J.,

This appeal has been preferred against the judgment of the learned High

Court Judge of Puttalam dated 2008.07.29 setting aside the determination of the

learned Magistrate made in respect of a dispute regarding the right of way.

In this case the learned Primary Court Judge of Puttalam made an order on

17.10.2007 dismissing the application of the Respondent Applicant Petitioner

~

trI!

f1,I !

I !

· 3

Respondent claiming right of way. Being aggrieved by the learned Primary Court

Judge's order the Applicant Petitioner Respondent filed a Revision application in

Puttalam High Court. The learned High Court Judge of Puttalam had reversed the

order of the learned Primary COLlrt Judge and directed the Registrar of the

Magistrate's Court to restore the right of way to the Applicant Petitioner

Respondent. This appeal has been preferred against the said judgment.

The main point argued by the learned Counsel for the Respondent

Respondent Appellant was that the learned High Court Judge had failed to

consider the scene observation of the learned Primary Court Judge. Further the

Appellant's argument was that the Petitioner Respondent has n.ot adduced any

exceptional circumstances before the learned High Court Judge:

In this regard I wish to cite the following authority:

In Devi Property Development (Pvt) Limited and another vs Lanka Medical

(Pvt) Limited CA. 518/1 decided on 20.06.2001. It was held II Revision is an extra

ordinary jurisdiction vested in Court to be exercised under exceptional

circumstances if no other remedies are available. N

In Kanakalingam vs Jeatheswaran and others 2009 1 SLR 152 it was held

liThe Primary Court not deciding an issue finally whatever the order that a Primary

Court Judge shall make would be temporary nature

N

•

In this case I note in the High Court the Applicant Petitioner Respondent

has not established any exceptional circumstances which constituted grave

miscarriage of justice to revise the impugned order of the learned Primary Court

Judge. The Petitioner Respondent has not specifically elaborated how the

impugned order of the primary Court Judge is illegal and no alternative remedies.

It is a well established principle that the party who has an alternative remedy can

invoke revisionary jurisdiction of a appellate court only upon establishment of

exceptional circumstances. The Applicant Petitioner Respondent had not

established exceptional circumstances in the High Court.

I am of the view, the learned High Court Judge has not properly considered

the above laid down principles.

, i I I

1 I I J J

t j

I

f I

~ 1 4 I

I

"

4

Further I note that the learned High Court Judge has not given due

consideration to the Magistrate's scene observation. The learned Magistrate had

visited the disputed land for a inspection and recorded his observation. In his

observation observes that there is flO other gate or opening along the said road.

Further the learned Primary court Judge has correctly observed the disputed

passage is only used to enter into the house of the Appellant. Therefore my

opinion is that the learned Primary Court Judge has correctly adjudicated the

dispute.

I am of the view that the learned High Court judge's order dated

2008.07.29 is contrary to law and the facts in this. case. Therefore the learned

High Court Judge's order amounts to an error in law.

I have gone through the proceedings before the High Court and note that

the Applicant Petitioner Respondent has not established an exceptional

circumstances in the High Court. The learned High Court Judge has not properly

considered this matter. In the circumstances the court holds that the learned High

Court Judge is in error when he decided to set aside the judgment of the learned

Primary Court Judge.

If the Appellant is dissatisfied with the decisions of the learned Magistrate

he could have filed a court case in the District Court.

For the above reasons I set aside th judgment of the Jearned High Court

Judge dated 2008.07.29 and affirm the order of the learned Primary Court Judge

dated 17.10.2007.

Appeal is dismissed without costs.

~ P~ JUDGE OF THE COURi OF A P At2-

Salam J.,

~. I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

:t ...