==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A. Appeal No.238/06 H.C. Badulla No.92/2004

The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

PLAINTIFF Vs. Wijesundara Mudiyamelage Nimal Keerthirathna "Meraya Villa" Rachllla Road, Welimada.

ACCUSED Wijesundara Mudiyanselage Nimal Keerthirathna "'Meraya Villa" Badulla Road, Welimada.

ACCUSED-APPELLENT Vs. Hon. Attorney General Attorney General’s Department Colombo 12.

PLAlNTlFF-DEFENDANT

C.A.Appeal No.238/06 H.C.Badulla No.92/2004

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

Sisira J. de Abrew, J. &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J.

Dr.Ranjith Fernando for the Accused-Appellant.

Rohantha Abeysuriya DSG for AI G.

20.11.2013

Sisira T. de Abrew, T

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted for the murder of a man

named Manikka Baduge Keerthi Jayasinghe and was sentenced to death.

Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence he has appealed to this

Court.

Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as follows:-The deceased

person was running a petrol station. On the day of the incident around 5.30

p.m. the accused-appellant came to the petrol station of the deceased person and

met the deceased person in the cubical of the petrol station. 5 minutes thereafter

1

Abeyratne Bandara and Dharmaraj who were working as employees of the

petrol station heard a cry of distress of the deceased person. When Abeyratne

Bandara looked at the direction where the cry of distress emanated, he saw the

accused-appellant stabbing the deceased person. He ran towards the cubical

and then the accused-appellant came from the cubical armed with a knife.

Arumugam Ponniah who was a fruit vendor says that around 5.30 p.m.

the accused-appellant came to his fruit stall and sat on a box of fruits. He saw

the cloths of the accused-appellant stained with blood. Abeyratne Bandara made

a prompt statement to the police. At this time the accused-appellant too came to

the police station. The investigating police officer later went to the fruit stall of

Arumugam Ponniah and the accused-appellant pointed out a knife which had

been kept under a box of fruits. This knife was recovered in consequence of the

statement made by the accused-appellant.

The accused-appellant, in his dock statement, says that around 5.30 p.m.

on the day of the incident he came to the petrol station of the deceased person

and discussed with the deceased person inside the cubical, a dispute with regard

to the land on which the accused-appellant has constructed a house. The

deceased person, according the accused-appellant, requested him to leave the

said house. When the accused-appellant did not agree with the request made by

the deceased person, the latter in a threatening voice told the former to leave the

2

house. In the course of this exchange of words the deceased person took a knife

and attempted to stab him. The accused appellant then dragged the knife. This

was the summary of the dock statement of the accused-appellant.

Learned Counsel appearing for the accused-appellant submits that he only

makes submission in order to get the culpability reduced. We have given

anxious consideration to the submissions made by the learned Counsel for the

appellant. But we note that the defence of the accused-appellant has not been

suggested to the prosecution witnesses. We have gone through the evidence led

at the trial. We are unable to conclude that the accused-appellant acted under

grave and sudden provocation or in the course of a sudden fight. We are also

unable to conclude that the accused-appellant exercised his right of private

defence. We therefore hold that we are unable to agree with the submissions of

the learned Counsel for accused-appellant. We have gone through the evidence

led at the trial and are of the opinion that the learned trial Judge has correctly

rejected the dock statement. In our view dock statement cannot be relieved and

is not capable of creating any reasonable doubt in the prosecution case. We

hold that the prosecution has proved its case beyond reasonable doubt. For the

above reasons, we see no reason to interfere with the judgment of the learned

trial Judge. We affirm the conviction and the death sentence and dismiss the

appeal.

3

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C.Jayathilake, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

KLP/-

4

I

i ! t h,