==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA 28/2009 HC Galle 2900

Before

Counsel

Argued on Decided on

Oliver Dayananda Kalansuriya alias Raja

Accused-Appellants

Vs The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Complainant Respondent

Sisira de Abrew J & Sunil Rajapakshe J

CR De SilvaSilva President's Counsel with D Weerasekara and Chinthaka Rankotge for the appellant Y asantha Kodagoda DSG for the Respondent.

29.1.2013, 30.1.2013, 31.1.2013 13.2.2013

Sisira de Abrew J.

The accused appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of a man

named Ratnayake Sumanasekare alias Raja and was sentenced to death. Being

aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence the accused appellant has

appealed to this court.

Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as follows: On the day ofthe

incident around 7.30p.m when Ajith who is one of the sons of the deceased person

was talking to Piyal near his shop, he saw his father (the deceased person) was

going towards his house. At this time his father who was after liquor was scolding

2

his younger brother Thilina for plucking young coconuts. Fearing his father would

harm his younger brother he started following his father. He then saw the accused

appellant who was living in his neighborhood coming to the road carrying a knife

and addressing his father in the following language: "Raja wait I have to settle a

transaction with you." When the deceased person started coming towards the

accused appellant, the latter stabbed the former. This was witnessed by his son

Ajith from a distance of about 20-25 meters. After the stabbing when the accused

appellant came towards him he ran away from the scene. Thereafter he, after taking

a circuitous route, came to his house. He then saw his father lying fallen in the

compound with bleeding injuries. He thereafter went back to Piyal' s shop and

requested his car to take the father to the hospital. He says he told Piyal that the

accused appellant stabbed his father. But the fact that Ajith mentioning accused

appellant's name was denied by Piyal in his evidence. Piyal says that he took

deceased person to the hospital in his car and Ajith too went with him in the car.

Piyal says that he got the first information about the stabbing from Thilana who of

course had not given evidence at the trial. Piyal further says that at the time Thilina

gave this information to him Ajith too was there near his shop, but in the next

answer he said Ajith was near the other boutique which was little away from his

shop.

Main contention of learned President's Counsel was that Ajith did not

see the stabbing. Learned DSG who did not support the conviction too contended

that Ajith had not seen the stabbing. He contended that if Ajith was present near

Piyal's shop at the time Thilina gave the said information Ajith could not have

seen the incident. According to his contention Ajith had not moved from Piyal's

shop when the deceased person was scolding his son. I now advert to this

contention. If Ajith had not moved from Piyal's shop he could not witness his

father being stabbed. He drew our attention to the distance between Ajith and his

\ Ii•

~iII\l

I

~lilII

3

father at this time. It was a distance four lamp posts. Can any argument be

advanced to the effect that it was difficult for Piyal to reach his father before the

stabbing because of the distance between him and the father? In considering this

argument one must not forget that deceased person at this time was after liquor.

Thus he would have been walking slower than his usual speed. Further Ajith being

a young man of about 26 years could walk this distance within few minutes. He

would have walked faster than his usual speed since he thought his father who was

under influence of liquor would harm his brother. In fact he says that he walked

fast and slowed down when he came closer to the father. When I consider all these

matters, I hold the view that there was no difficulty for Ajith to reach his father

before the stabbing. In fact he says that fearing his father would harm his brother

he hurriedly went behind his father. When he was about 20-25 meters behind his

father the accused appellant stabbed the deceased. The position taken up by Ajith

was that he came back to Piyal' s shop after seeing the stabbing. He did not directly

come to Piyal's shop. He came to Piyal's shop after seeing his father fallen in the

compound. At the time Thilina gave the information, according to Piyal, Ajith was

near his shop but he did not give the information of his father being stabbed.

Learned DSG relying on the above matters submitted that Ajith had not seen the

stabbing. I now advert to this contention. What was Ajith's intention at this time?

His intention was to take his injured father to the hospital as quickly as possible. It

may be that before Ajith gave the information to Piyal, Thilina also arrived at the

Piyal' s shop almost at the same time and gave the information to Piyal. When

considering the contention of learned DSG one must not forget the fact that Ajith

made a statement to the Police in the same night and that no omission was marked

to prove that he failed to give the name of the accused appellant to the Police. Ajith

takes up the position that he came back to Piyal's shop after seeing the stabbing

4

incident. When I consider all these matters, I am unable to accept the submission

of learned DSG.

Ajith says that he went and told Piyal that the accused appellant stabbed his

father. But Piyal does not confirm this position. Learned PC who appeared for the

accused appellant therefore contended that Ajith could not be believed. He further

submitted that Ajith had not even told his mother the name of the assailant of his

father. But one must not forget that Ajith in the same night made a statement to the

police and as I pointed out earlier no omission was marked to prove that he had not

mentioned the name of the accused appellant. Thus his evidence satisfies the test of

promptness and consistency. What was the behaviour of Ajith? He on seeing that

his father who was after liquor scolding his brother followed him fearing he would

harm the younger brother. When the accused appellant was stabbing his father, he

raised his voice. When the accused appellant turned towards him he ran away.

Thereafter he, after taking a circuitous route went to his house. On seeing his

father lying fallen in the compound with bleeding injuries he ran to Piyal'shop to

get a vehicle. He immediately took his father to the hospital. After hearing from

the doctor about his father's death he in the same night made a statement to the

police. His conduct is, therefore, in my view, very much compatible with a conduct

of a normal human being.

It is an accepted principle that a criminal case cannot be proved with a

mathematical accuracy as it has to be proved by the evidence given by human

witnesses. Thus discrepancies, errors and contradiction are bound to occur. If they

do not create a reasonable doubt in the prosecution case court should disregard

them. Courts should not reject evidence of witnesses on the basis of minor

discrepancies and contradictions. This view is supported by the judicial decision in

State of Uttar Predesh Vs MK Anthony [1984] SCJ 236. Indian Supreme Court in

that case held thus: "While appreciating the evidence of a witness, the approach

5

must be whether the evidence of the witness read as a whole appears to have ring

or truth. Once that impression is formed, it is undoubtedly necessary for the court

to scrutinize the evidence more particularly keeping in view the deficiencies,

drawbacks and infirmities pointed out in the evidence as a whole and evaluate

them to find out whether it is against the general tenor of the evidence given by the

witness and whether the earlier evaluation of the evidence is shaken as to tender it

unworthy of belief. Minor discrepancies on trivial matters not touching the core of

the case, hyper-technical approach by taking sentences tom out of context here or

there from the evidence, attaching importance to some technical error committed

by the investigating officer not going to the root of the matter would not ordinarily

permit rejection of the evidence as a whole. If the court before whom the witness

gives evidence had the opportunity to form the opinion about the general tenor of

evidence given by the witness, the appellate court which had not this benefit will

have to attach due weight to the appreciation of evidence by the trial court and

unless there are reasons weighty and formidable it would not be proper to reject the

evidence on the ground of minor variations or infirmities in the matter of trivial

details. Even honest and truthful witness may differ in some details unrelated to the

main incident because power of observation, retention and reproduction differ with

individuals."

When I consider the above matters, I am unable to agree with contentions

of both learned DSG and the learned President's Counsel that Ajith had not seen

his father being stabbed by the accused appellant. I hold that the learned trial judge

was right when he accepted the evidence of Ajith.

There is no evidence to say that the accused appellant had fled the area

after the incident. But the learned trial judge concluded that the accused appellant

had fled the area. I agree with learned President's Counsel when he contended that

6

this was a misdirection. But this misdirection, in my view, has not occasioned a

miscarriage of justice in view of the evidence led at the trial.

When I consider the evidence led at the trial, I am of the opinion that there

are no reasons to interfere with the judgment of the learned trial judge. For the

above reasons, I affirm the conviction and the death sentence of the accused

appellant and dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

Sunil Rajapakshe J

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Judge of the Court of Appeal