==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A.131/2012 H.C. Gampaha Case No. 166/2006

M. Chaminda Kumarasiri No: 633/08, Kudumirislanda Watte, Nandugamuwa.

Appellant Vs. Hon Attorney General, Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

1 I , I

1 t

-~ 1 j

1

~

~ i I

I

I i

C.A.131/2012

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on:

H.N.J. Perera,J.

H.C. Gampaha Case No. 166/2006

H.N.J. Perera,J. &

K.K. Wickremasinghe,J.

Dr. Ranjith Fernando with Samanthi

Rajapakshe for the Accused-Appellant.

Thusitha Mudalige S.S.C. for the A.G.

18.05.2015.

1

Counsel for the Accused Appellant informs Court that he

will confine this appeal to the sentence imposed on the

accused-appellant by the learned High Court Judge. The

accused-appellant has been charged for committing two

offences which were punishable under Section 364 (2) (e) and

365 (2) (a) of the Penal Code. After trial the learned High Court

Judge convicted the accused-appellant for the 1 st count.

Learned High Court Judge has imposed 15 years ngorous

imprisonment on the accused-appellant and also ordered to

2

pay Rs. 7,500/-as a fine and ordered to pay Rs.25,000/-as

compensation to the victim in this case.

Learned Counsel for the accused-appellant brings to the

notice of this Court that at the time of committing this offence

the accused-appellant was around 20 years of age and the

victim was 8 years of age and they are related and that the

accused -appellant has no previous convictions and also the

Court would take into account that the victim was married and

she had children at the time of giving evidence.

Learned Counsel for the Accused-Appellant moves court

to take into account the fact that the accused-appellant is

not contesting the conviction but has confined himself to the

sentence of this case and to make an order to implement the

sentence from the date of conviction.

Learned Senior State Counsel leaves the sentence in the

hands of Court.

After considering the facts and the circumstances of this

case and the age of the accused-appellant and the fact that

the victim has settled down, we substitute a term of 10 years

3

ngorous imprisonment imposed by the learned High Court

Judge on the accused-appellant in this case. The fine imposed

by the learned High Court Judge and the compensation

ordered to be paid to the victim should stand. Sentences

imposed in lieu of the fine and the compensation too should

stand.

On the application of the counsel for the Accused-

Appellant, we further direct that the sentence imposed on the

accused appellant be implemented from the date of conviction

namely, 27.06.2012.

Subject to the above variation, the appeal is dismissed.

The learned High Court Judge is directed to issue a

fresh committal.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

K.K. Wickremasinghe,J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

/mds