==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

In the matter of an Application for Writ in

the nature of Certiorari and Mandamus in

terms of Article 140 of the Constitution.

B.L. Kingsly Ranjit Pingho

N o.272, Y asasiri Pur a

Anuradhapura.

PETITIONER

CA (Writ) Application No.133/2012 VS.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued on

1. The Deputy Inspector General of Police

of North Central Province

DIG Office

Anuradhapura.

2. The Inspector General of Police

Police Headquarters

Colombo 01.

3. Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

RESPONDENTS

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

Nissanka Nanayakkara with Senjeewa Senevirathne,

for the Petitioner

Neil Unamboowa DSG,

for Respondents

17.05.2013

2

Decided on 16. 07.2013

S.Sriskandarajah,J

The Petitioner had joined the Police Department on 5th of August 1989 as a Reserve Sub

Inspector and had served in different Police Stations, and the Petitioner had been subsequently

absorbed to the Police Regular Service in the year 1995 as an Inspector of Police under the

special absorption criteria. The Petitioner was interdicted on 29th May 2004 for misconduct

while he was serving at Padaviya Police Station. The Petitioner and 3 others, viz., Police

Sergeant Piyalal Handunneththi, Reserve Police Constable Priyantha Wasala and Reserve Police

Constable Premasiri were charged in the Kesbewa Magistrates Court for committing rape on a

woman under Section 364(a) of the Penal Code, as amended. When the case was pending

before the Magistrates Court, a disciplinary inquiry was commenced against the Petitioner and

the Petitioner was charge sheeted containing the following charges:-

1) Discreditable conduct;

2) Insubordination or oppressive conduct;

3) Falsehood or prevarication in regard to entering in an official document or book a false

statement or placing their signatures;

4) Falsehood or prevarication in entering in the Day Book at page 110, stating that the officers

visited the Police Post at Kumbukwewa;

5) Falsehood or prevarication in regard to making statement of

false nature in order to mislead.

After an inquiry on to the charges stated above, the Petitioner and 3 other Police Officers were

found guilty and, accordingly, in terms of the departmental order, the services of the said

officers were terminated.

The Petitioner contended that the Petitioner was subsequently indicted in the

High Court of Anuradhapura in terms of Section 364(2) of the Penal Code, as amended, and he

was acquitted by a High Court order and, therefore, he has pleaded that his disciplinary order

be reconsidered. The Respondent submitted that the disciplinary order was delivered on 29th

April 2008 and the Petitioner has failed to appeal against that order as provided under the

3

procedure laid down for appeals against a disciplinary order. The departmental inquiry was

held after giving the Petitioner an opportunity to defend himself, and the Petitioner was given

ample opportunity to present his case before the Inquirer and, as the allegation made against

the Petitioner was serious, and the charge against the Petitioner was proved and he was found

guilty, that the Petitioner's services were terminated and, in those circumstances the Petitioner

cannot claim that the said decision to terminate his services is ultra vires the powers of the

Respondent or that the Respondents have not followed valid or proper procedure in coming to

that conclusion. Even though the Petitioner had an opportunity to appeal against the said order

to the proper authorities, the Petitioner has failed and neglected to do so. In these

circumstances the Petitioner cannot seek a writ of certiorari in this Court to set aside the said

order of termination of his service and, therefore, this Court dismisses this application without

costs.

President of the Court of Appeal