==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. N0.44/98(F)

S.D.M.Farook Mayadevi Industries No.609. Peradeniya Road

Kandy.

1st Defendant-Appellant

D.C.COLOMBO CASE N0.41365/MHP

BEFORE

COUNSEL

G.Kodituwakku Arachchi No.615, Peradeniya Road Kandy.

2"d Defendant-Appellant

Vs

L.B.Finance Ltd. No.275/75, Prof.Stanley Wijesundera Mawatha

Colombo. 07.

Plaintiff- Respondent.

M.M.Nazi No.345/23, Kuruppu Lane Colombo.08

3rd Defendant-Respondent

K. T. CHITRASIRI, J

Dulani Warawewa, Attorney-at-Law for the 1st defendant-

Appellant

B.O.P.Jayawardene, Attorney-at-Law for the 2"d defendant-Appellant

Athula Perera instructed by Harshani Map a tuna, Attorneys-at- T 1w for the Plaintiff-Respondent

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON

DECIDED ON

CHITRASIRI, J.

2

15.03.2013

01 st April2013 by the Plaintiff-Respondent

10.06.2013

Two appeals have been filed by the 1st defendant-appellant (hereinafter referred

to as the 1st defendant) and the 2nd defendant-appellant (hereinafter referred to as the

2nd defendant) seeking to set aside the judgment dated 03.12.1997 of the learned District

Judge of Colombo. In those two appeals the appellants have also moved that the

plaintiffs action filed in the District Court be dismissed. Both appeals were taken up

for argument together and the Court then heard the two Counsel appearing for the two

appellants as well as the Counsel for the respondent in support of their respective cases.

The decision of the learned District Judge is for the plaintiff-respondent

(hereinafter referred to as the plaintiff) to obtain the reliefs sought in his plaint from

the 1st and the 2nd defendants. The case against the 3rd defendant-respondent was not

taken up for trial as the summons was not served on him.

The plaint of the plaintiff is on the basis of the two agreements entered into on

18.3.1988. These two agreements had been marked as P3 and P3A in evidence.

Learned District Judge basically relying upon the terms and conditions of those

agreements had concluded that the 1st and the 2nd defendants are liable to pay the

3

amounts calculated in accordance with the manner referred to in the prayer to the

plaint.

When the matter was taken up for hearing before this Court, Counsel for the 1st

defendant restricted his argument to the defence that the 1st defendant has taken up at

the trial whilst the 2"d defendant's Counsel confined his case to the fact that the terms

and conditions referred to in the agreement marked P3A was not read over and

explained to the 2"d defendant at the time he placed his signature on the said document.

The defence of the 1st defendant was that the vehicle bearing No.50 Sri.6915 which is the

subject matter of the agreement put in suit was forcibly taken away by terrorists in the

month of March 1989 and thereby he was prevented from using the said vehicle. In

accordance with the aforesaid submissions of the Counsel appearing for the two

appellants, this Court decided to consider only those issues and therefore the matters

raised in the petition of appeal other than the aforesaid two matters stand not pursued.

As mentioned hereinbefore, Counsel for the 1st defendant contended that the

subject matter namely the vehicle 50 Sri 6915 was forcibly taken away by terrorist and

therefore the contract put in suit has been frustrated. He therefore argued that the

plaintiff cannot in law recover damages for the breach of the terms and conditions

contained in the said contract marked P3. At the trial in the District Court, an issue has

been raised to this effect on behalf of the 1st defendant. (Issue No.30) The 1st

defendant, in his evidence has stated that the said vehicle was forcibly taken away when

it reached Mankulam having ordered the passengers including the 1st defendant to get

4

off from the van. (Vide proceedings at page 139 in the brief). He has further stated that

the driver of the vehicle had then complained to Chavakachcheri Police of the incident.

According to the 1st defendant, he could not trace the vehicle since then. He has further

stated that the incident was informed to the plaintiff company and the letter by which it

was communicated to the plaintiffwas marked as 1V2. (Vide proceedings at page 140 of

the brief and the said document marked 1D2 is found at page 263 of the brief) Those

are the circumstances, under which the 1st defendant took up the defence of frustration

of the contract (P3) upon which the claim of the plaintiff was rested upon.

At this stage, it is necessary to note that, even though the 1st defendant in his

evidence has stated that he has informed of the alleged incident to the plaintiff company

by letter marked 1D2, the witness for the plaintiff company has denied receiving such a

letter. No evidence is forthcoming as to the mode of delivery of the said letter as well.

Therefore, it is seen that the evidence as to the informing of the incident to the plaintiff

company by letter marked 1D2 does not carry much weight. Furthermore, if such a

letter had been sent, then it is the burden of the 1st defendant to establish that it was

sent to the plaintiff company since such a fact is within the knowledge of the 1st

defendant. (Section 106 of the Evidence Ordinance) Even assuming that the letter

marked 1D2 had been sent by the first defendant to the plaintiff, nothing is found in

that letter as to the date on which the vehicle was taken away by terrorists. Therefore,

it is not incorrect to decide that no such letter was sent to the plaintiff company

informing the plaintiff of any incident taken place in the month of March 1989 in

relation to the vehicle 50 Sri 6915leased out to the 1st defendant.

5

In his evidence, the 1st defendant has stated that the vehicle was taken away in

Mankulam. He has also stated that a complaint had been made to this effect to

Chavakachcheri Police Station. However, the 1st defendant has failed to produce a

copy of the complaint made to Chavakachcheri police at the trial held in the original

court. Moreover, a person has to travel more than 80 k.m. in order to arrive at

Chavakachcheri from Mankulam. Then a question arises as to the reason why such a

distance had been travelled passing several police stations to make a complaint of such

a grave incident of a robbery of a vehicle. No explanation is found on this point. In the

circumstances, it is clear that the decision of the learned District Judge to reject the

evidence led on behalf of the 1st defendant as to the taking away of the vehicle is not

incorrect.

In this regard, it is important to quote from the Law of Contract by Professor

C.G. Weeramantry on the question of frustration of contracts. In his Book, he has

stated thus:

" Where one party and not the other, foresees the event which is said to have frustrated the contract, that party is not entitled to plead frustration. The

position in regard to this aspect of the doctrine is clear and has been authoritively laid down in Walton Harvey Ltd. v. Walker & Homfrays Ltd." (1951) 2 KGB at 965)

[The Law of Contract Vol. 11, at page 794]

I will now consider the law referred to above with that of the facts of this case.

The 1st defendant has stated that the alleged incident has taken place in the month of

March 1989. It was a period in which terrorist activities were in place to a great extent

in the Northern area of the country. Under those circumstances, the 1st defendant

certainly would have foreseen incidents of this nature when he sent the vehicle to the

6

North of the country. It is more so due to the reason of large number of vehicle

robberies reported during this period not only in the North but also in the other areas

of the country. Such matters were in the common knowledge amongst the people of the

country. Therefore, even assuming that the facts pertaining to the defence of the 1st

defendant are correct, the Law will not permit him to have the cover of the defence of

frustration in this instance. In the circumstances, I am not inclined to agree with the

contention of the learned Counsel for the 1st defendant as to the defence of frustration

of the contract marked P3.

The contention of the Counsel for the 2nd defendant is that the terms and

conditions contained in the Guaranteed Bond marked P3A was not read over and

explained to the 2nd defendant when he signed the guarantee bond marked P3A. In

this connection, it is important to quote the relevant evidence of the 2nd defendant in

this regard.

,g

G

9

G

a>®.!:D <i®lt:DD< qafo.!:D t:D<i@ ?

OlOzd' ~<<9J@D E)JG:>-!Dcd' m.!:D-!D w-!Dl ~ol ~cC) ~<@ m.!:D-!D w-!Dl

~ol ®® qlot:Dole~E)d ct(9c qdc!O tD® .

qlot:Do~E)d ct(9at t:DO!O.!I> <!.!l>l ct®J.!I>E)J~ t$c<9J e~afol.!l>l< ?

<i)!).

®® oJ®J-!Dl)<iC.!:D ~-!D 85cJ ~<@ mafa> <it:D-!Dl OlOzd' ~<<9J@ o@@

qo<im-!D <g)E)O CiE)(9J <i-!Dl<iG:>~<iE)Jaf c~t538 qE)clOJE)t:D~ oo§1<i<35 <i<o(9

dl<icv-!DE)J t53~E)J, <iG:>~<i~ -!Dzaf-!D~ <i<o(9 ~~®£.>) m.!:D-!DE)J, tdlel c@~

®® (IG)E)!SJ.!I> <!.!l>l t$c® ®D e~afoleo1. "

7

The aforesaid evidence of the 2nd defendant clearly shows that he was

well aware of the terms and conditions contained in the Guaranteed Bond marked P3A

when he signed the guarantee bond. In that agreement, he has consented to be a

guarantor to the facilities obtained by the 1st defendant having understood the terms

and conditions found therein. The said evidence had not been controverted. Therefore,

it is correct when the learned District Judge decided to reject the defence of not

explaining the terms and conditions of the Guaranteed Bond P3A to the 2"d defendant.

At this stage, it is also necessary to note that these two appeals were argued

basically to challenge the manner in which the learned District Judge had considered

the evidence in relation to the facts of the case. No particular question of law has been

raised. Therefore, Trial Judge being the best person to arrive at a decision as to the

facts of the case having seen even the demeanor of the witnesses, this Court is reluctant

to interfere with the findings of the leaned District Judge. This proposition in law had

been upheld in many decisions including that of:

• De Silva vs. Seneviratne (1981) (2) SLR at page 8.

• Frad vs. Brown & Co. 20 NLR at page 282

• Alwis vs. Piyasena Fernando (1993) (1) SLR at page 119.

In the decision mentioned last, G.P.S.de.Silva, J (as he then was) has held thus:

"It is well established that findings of primary facts by a Trial Judge who hears and sees

witnesses are not to be lightly disturbed on appeal"

8

For the aforesaid reasons, it is clear that both the facts of the case and the law

relevant thereto do not support the applications of the two appellants. Therefore, I am

not inclined to interfere with the findings of the Learned District Judge.

Accordingly, the two appeals are dismissed with costs.

Appeals dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL