==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Court of Appeal No: CA 562/96(F) D.C. Horana Case No: 4803/P

Liyanage Sisira Senarathna

2nd Substituted Plaintiff Appellantand also 1st Substituted Defendant

-Vs- 2.a Jayalathge Sumanadasa b. Jayalathge Indrani c. Jayalathge Somalatha d. Jayalathge Chandralatha e. Veragamage Asilin Nona

Substituted Defendant – Respondent- Respondent 3. Jalajjage Leelarathna

3rd Defendant – Respondent- Respondent

C.A. No. 562/96(F)

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED AND

DECIDED ON

D.C.Horana No.4803/P

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

Kamal Dissanayake with Atheek Ian and

Nadeeka Guruge for the 2nd substituted

plaintiff-appellant.

Lasitha Chaminda with Srimathi Rajaguru

for the 2nd defendant-respondent

02nd April 2013.

***********

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

This is an appeal preferred against the order of the

learned District Judge of Horana dated 1st August 1996. It

appears from the said order that the issues number 3 and 4

raised by the learned Counsel for the 2nd defendant has been

taken up for inquiry as preliminary issues of law. Both Counsel

conceded that with regard to the said issues, in making the order

of the learned District Judge dated 26.02.1991, he had failed to

consider the requisite documentation and the evidence. I have

perused the said order and I am of the view that the learned

1

District Judge had failed to consider the necessity of leading the

evidence pertaining to the matters raised in issues number 3 and

4. In any event since it had been alleged that part of the land was

a subject matter of a previous partition action, the relief would

have been granted was an exclusion of the said portion from the

land to be partitioned and to proceed with the action in respect of

the balance portion of land. In view of the said circumstances,

both Counsel agreed to send the case back for a retrial. I am also

of the view that the order of the learned District Judge should be

set aside on the same basis. Considering the said circumstances, I

set aside the order of the learned District Judge dated 0 1st August

1996. I direct the learned District Judge of Horana to proceed

with the trial on the issues raised by the parties. Parties should

bear their own costs. Registrar is directed to send the main case

record to the relevant District Court with the order made by this

Court. The learned District Judge is directed to conclude this

matter expeditiously.

Case sent back for trial.

JUDG OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Kwkj=

2