==== BLOCKS ==== 

In the Court of Appeal of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

CA 1169/95 F DC Negombo 4099/L

Before: A W A Salam J

Parties absent and unrepresented

Decided on: 08.03.2011.

A W A Salam, J

DR Wasinton Perera, No 271, St: Joseph's Street, Negombo

Plain tiff-Appellan t

Vs

B V Siridasa, No 271/2, St: Joseph's Street, Negombo

Defendan t -Respondent

'J"he plaintiff filed action against the defendant praying

1 interalia for a declaration of title to the land and premises

described in the schedule to the plaint. He also sought the

1

ejectment of the defendant from the said land and premises on

the footing that the defendant is in occupation of an

unauthorized construction as a tenant and therefore is liable to

be ejected.

The defendant maintained that he was the tenant of the

premises in question from 1979 under one Martin Fonseka and

from the year 1983 he had been paying rent to the plaintiff. By

reason of the admission made by the defendant as regards the

ownership of the subject matter, the defendant had to be in his

case so as to establish that his occupation was lawful.

The crucial question that carne up for determination at the trial

was that the tenanted premises in question and unlawful

construction as alleged by the plaintiff and if so whether the

defendant is liable to be ejected as there cannot be a valid

contract of tenancy arising in respect of an unauthorized

building.

In the course of the trial, on various occasions several

admissions were made by the parties. At one stage the

defendant admitted the ownership of the plaintiff to the subject

matter and that he had been paying rent to the latter. It was

also admitted that there was a tenancy agreement between the

2

parties. Further case No 1332/RE was also admitted to be

proceedings had between the parties.

The matter of the dispute proceeded to trial on 16 issues of

which the first two were suggested by the plaintiff and the rest

by the defendant.

Although lengthy evidence had been led at the trial the main

issue that came up for determination was the question relating

to the alleged unauthorized construction and the consequences

thereof. At the end of the trial, the learned district judge having

examined the evidence adduced by both parties and on their

behalf came to the conclusion that the allegation made by the

plaintiff as to the unauthorized nature construction had not

been established and therefore is not entitled to the benefit of

the judgment in Dharmawardana Vs Malawattage 1987 1 SLR

57 and dismissed the plaintiffs action.

The basis on which the learned district judge had decided to

dismiss the plaintiffs action, in my opinion cannot form a valid

ground of appeal. The learned district judge has correctly

analyzed the evidence and applied the law to the facts of the

case and therefore the impugned judgment is not liable to be set

aside.

3

In the circumstances, the appeal preferred by the plaintiff merits

no favourable consideration.

Appeal dismissed without costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

4