==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

Court of Appeal No. CALA 398/2004 District Court of Colombo No: 354811T

Before: Eric Basnayake J

In the matter of an application for leave to appeal

Subash S.K.H. Ibulmure

Intervenient-Respondent -Petitioner

Vs.

The Public Trustee

Executor-Peti tioner-Respondent

Counsel: Kushan De Alwis for the Intervenient-Respondent-

Petitioner M.U.M. Ali Sabry with Ruwantha Cooray for the Petitioner-Respondent

Argued on: 30.3.2012

Written Submissions Tendered On: 6.9.2007

Decided on: 2.05.2012

Eric Basnayake J

1. The intervenient-respondent-petitioner (petitioner) filed this leave to appeal application to

have the order dated 8.10.2004 of the learned Additional District Judge of Colombo set

aside. By this order the learned Judge had dismissed the petitioner's application. Leave to

appeal was granted by this court on 30.11.2010.

2. The executor-petitioner-respondent is the Public Trustee (respondent). The respondent

filed action on 15.12.2000 in the District Court of Colombo seeking probate in respect of

the last will of the estate of the deceased, J ayasena Weerasekera. The respondent claimed

that the deceased had left a sum of Rs.S00912.34 by way of fixed deposits at The Finance

Company Ltd., and a sum ofRs.3655.21 in an account at Peoples' Bank. The respondent

did not make any party a respondent for the reason that the deceased did not have any

relations and did not expect any objections.

3. The last will is marked "E 2". The last will was attested by A.H.T. Dayananda l.P.U.M.,

Attorney-at-Law and Notary Public on 9.11.1998. In this last will the deceased had

devised and bequeathed all his money in fixed deposits in The Finance Company

Limited, bearing numbers TEM 3594-3596 of 26.11.1997 and all monies in the current

account No.1 070049233 in the Peoples' Hank, Duke Street, Colombo.

4. The certificates are as follows:- a. No. 3594 for a sum ofRs. 200,000.00

b. No. 3595 for a sum of Rs. 200,000.00

c. No. 3596 for a sum of Rs. 200,000.00

Total Rs. 600,000.00

5. The respondent claimed that the deceased had left his properties in the last will to the

following beneficiaries, namely:

• Buddhist Welfare Fund of the Sri Dalada Maligawa, Kandy.

• Sri Lanka Council for Blind at Church Terrace, No. 74, Colombo 2.

• Institute of Helpage, C/o People's Bank Headquarters, Colombo 2.

• Sri Ginananda Children's Home, No.1, Sri Sugatha Viharaya,

Dhannarama Road, Colombo

• Saleema Wijegunarwardene Home for the Elders, Riverside Road,

Piliyandala.

6. On 23.5.2001 the petitioner sought an order from court under Section 544 of the Civil

Procedure Code to have him declared entitled to a sum of Rs.1500000 (1.5 million)

deposited by the deceased at The Finance Company Ltd. The deposit of 1.5 million

2

contained eight certificates including the three certificates referred to in the last will and

the details of the certificates are described in the schedule to the petition dated 23.5.2001

of the petitioner. The learned Judge after an inquiry dismissed the application of the

petitioner with costs. The learned Judge held that if the petitioner has a claim, he must

resolve it in a separate action.

7. The case of the petitioner

The deceased died on 30.6.1999. On 26.11.1997 the deceased had deposited a sum of

Rs.1500000 (1.5 million) with The finance Company Ltd. This sum was deposited in seven

fixed deposits of Rs.200000 and one Rs.I00000. The petitioner claimed that he was the

nominee of all the deposits. The deceased on 4.1.1998 had confirmed the nomination by a

separate letter to the Manager, The Finance. The petitioner has attached copies of eight

nominations dated 26.11.1997 and a copy of the letter dated 4.1.1998 marked A-I and A-I

(a). The petitioner states that upon the death of the deceased the petitioner duly informed The

Finance and requested that the monies be released to the petitioner. However these monies

were not released to the petitioner as the respondent had objected. Hence the petitioner

intervened in the testamentary action to get the monies in the fixed deposits excluded from

the inventory.

8. The petitioner states that the Public Trustee solely objected to the monies being released

to the petitioner on the ground that the signatures of the deceased have been forged.

Hence on the application of the Public Trustee, to which the petitioner did not object, a

commission was issued to the Examiner of Questioned Documents to examine and report

the authenticity of the signatures appearing on the fixed deposits. The E.Q.D. after

examining the relevant signatures with specimens confirmed that the signatures were

genuine (A8).

9. Learned counsel appearing for the respondent agreed to confine his case to the three fixed

deposits mentioned above amounting to Rs.600,OOO. Thus an order was made to The

Finance Co. to release the monies together with interest on five certificates. Now the only

3

dispute is with regard to the three fixed deposits amounting to Rs. 600000. The

respondent is claiming these fixed deposits on the basis that the monies involved in these

fixed deposits have been bequeathed in the last will dated 9.11.1998.

10. The petitioner claims that a nomination had been made in his favour in respect of all the

fixed deposits.

11. Section 544 of the epe permits anyone over sixteen years of age to nominate persons in

respect of monies in accounts, shares, life insurance, fixed deposits in finance companies

and movable properties in bank vaults and such monies, shares or movable property

shall be delivered to the nominees on the death of the nominator. Such transfer or

handing over shall be a complete discharge of the obligation of the Bank or the

Institution. A nomination shall have effect upon the death of the nominator

notwithstanding anything to the contrary in his last will.

Section 544 is as follows:-

12. Any person over sixteen years of age who has-

i. «a),( b), ( c ) not reproduced) ii. (d) any money in deposit in any finance company registered under the

Finance Companies Act, No. 78 of 1988 may nominate a person (nominee) to whom such monies .... lying to the credit of .... (nominator) shall be paid or transferred upon his death.

111. (e) (f) not reproduced iv. (2) A nomination made under subsection (1) shall have effect upon the

death of the nominator notwithstanding anything in his last will to the contrary. v. (3), (4) not reproduced vi. (5) The handing over, 01' transferring of, any money, share certificate or

deposit certificate or other movable property to any nominee of a nominator who has diej, shall be a complete discharge of the obligations of the Bank or institution, in respect of the money, or other movable property, Iving to the credit of, or in the name of, such nominator, or under such insurance policy (emphasis added).

4

13. In the event of a nomination being made such deposit certificates should not be included

in to the "estate" of the deceased. The respondent had included a sum ofRs.500912.34 as

the value of fixed deposits with The Finance Company. Thus the respondent had clearly

violated the provisions of Section 544 (2) which is as follows:-

a. 554 A (l) Not reproduced.

(2). For the purpose of proceedings under this Chapter "estate" and

"property" of any deceased person shall be deemed not to include-

(a) Not reproduced.

(b) the monies represented by any share certificates and deposit certificates

issued by any institution and remaining in the name of such deceased at

the time of his death; if he had made a nomination in respect thereof

under subsection (l) of section 544;

14. The learned Judge has held that the claim of the petitioner cannot be considered at this

inquiry. Allowing the petitioner's claim would open flood gates for action within an

action. The learned Judge has relied on several judgments, namely, De Silva vs. Gomes

30 N.L.R. 249, Pathmanathan vs. Thurasingham 74 N.L.R. 196 and Rosalin vs. Heart 65

C.L.W. 55. In De Silva vs. Gomes the respondent was a creditor of the estate. He applied

to the administrator for the payment of the debt which he alleged was due to him, but the

administrator was not prepared to pay without a court order. The respondent applied to

court for an order of payment. The court held that since the administrator was not

prepared to pay, the creditor should file a separate action.

15. In Pathmanathan's case the Supreme Court held that the disputed claim should not be

adjudicated upon in an inquiry relating to a judicial settlement and should establish the

claim in a separate action. The court held that it is practically impossible for a Judge to

hear disputed claims by creditors in proceedings for a judicial settlement of accounts.

Even a single disputed claim may involve a complicated trial. In Rosalin Nona's case the

administratrix of the estate of a deceased intestate applied to the District Court for

authority to sell certain immovable property in order to recover testamentary expenses

5

incurred by her. Rosalin Nona intervened and objected. However the objections were

dismissed. H.N.G. Femanado J (later Chief Justice) held that if an administrator claims

any property as being the property of the estate, the court does not in testamentary

proceedings have jurisdiction to determine disputes as to title between the administrator

and third parties. The appellant had no right to call upon the court to adjudicate upon

their claims of unencumbered title to the lands in question.

16. In the cases mentioned above the properties were in the custody of the administrator and

if any claim preferred was disputed by the administrator the creditors had to file separate

action to recover.

17. However section 544 of the CPC refers to monies etc., lying with persons other than the

administrator. Section 544 specifically refers to deposits in finance companies where the

testator could propose a nominee. The Act makes provision for those companies to

deliver property to the nominee on the death of the nominator and get themselves

discharged from the obligation. If that is the case why should a nominee file an action to

recover the money? Action could be filed if the nominee is refused payment. In this case

payment was withheld at the instance of the Public Trustee. If the Public Trustee is

disputing the claim of the nominee, the Public Trustee could bring an action against the

nominee and the finance company. There is no necessity for the nominee to file action

against the Public Trustee.

18. The law makes it easier for the nommee to recover money after the death of the

nominator. Provision is made for the custodian to respect the wishes of the nominator and

pay after the death of the nominator. The nominee has to make a claim from the person in

whose custody the property lies. The nominee has to prove his identity to the custodian.

He has to satisfy that he is the one in whose favour the nomination was made. The

custodian may refuse payment if the custodian is not satisfied with the bona fide of the

claim.

19. In this case the custodian, namely, The Finance Company had written to the District

Court confirming the nomination (A2 (a). The petitioner filed eight photocopies of

6

documents claiming them to be the nominations. These documents are dated 26.11.1997.

It appears that the learned Judge had made his order ignoring the unambiguous provisions

of law according to which certificates of deposit with a nominee cannot be part of the

estate of the deceased. Therefore I sct aside the order dated 8.10.2004 and allow this

appeal. Under the circumstances of this case I do not award costs. However the petitioner

is entitled to withdraw all eight certificates together with interests. The appeal is allowed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

7