==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA 90/2013 HC-Colombo-4866/200S

S.S. Padmanadan No: E/05, Nawagampura, Wellampitiya.

Appellant Vs. Hon Attorney General, Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

i I

j J I I I I !

..

CA 90/2013 HC-Colombo-4866/200S

Before H.N. J. Perera, J. &

K.K. Wickramesinqhe, J.

Counsel Neranjan Jayasinghe for the petitioner

Hiranjan Pieris, SSC for AG

Decided on 28.05.2015

H.N.J. Perera, J.

Counsel for the Accused Appellant informs court that he will

confines this appeal to the sentence imposed by the learned High

Court Judge on the Accused Appellant. The Accused Appellant has

been convicted for possession and trafficking of Heroin and

found guilty on both counts.

After conviction the learned High Court judge has sentenced him

to death on both counts. It is submitted on behalf of the

accused appellant that he has no previous convictions and that

the accused is addicted to heroin. Counsel brings it to the

notice of court that the accused in his dock statement too had

stated so. Counsel moves that the court to consider the fact

that there is no evidence to show that he is a habitual

t II

•

trafficker of heroin and therefore moves that the sentence

imposed by the High Court Judge on the accused Appellant be

converted to life imprisonment on both counts.

After considering the facts and circumstances of this case, and

the fact that the accused has no previous convictions, we set

aside the sentence of death imposed by the learned High Court

Judge on the Accused Appellant and substitute a term of life

imprisonment on both counts.

If for some reason, this life imprisonment imposed on the

Accused Appellant is converted in to a fixed term, the Prison

Authori ty is directed to implement the said sentence from the

date of conviction namely 12.06.2013

Subj ect to the above variation of the sentence the appeal is

dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

K.K. Wickramesinghe, J.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

LA/-