==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an Application for A Writ of Certiorari and Prohibition under Article 140 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. C.A. (Writ) Appln. No. 193/2009. 1. 2. 3.

Herbert S. Jayasuriya, Irshad N. Othman,

Before

Counsel

Arguedon :

Judgment on:

S. Markandu,

All members of the Committee of Management of the Dehiwela Mount Lavinia Cosmopolitan Sports Club of No.29, Frazer Avenue, Dehiwela.

Petitioners. Vs.

H. Sumanapala, Commissioner of Local Government, (Western Province), Independence Square, Colombo-7.

Respondent.

S. Sriskandarajah, J (PICA) & H.N.J. Perera, J.

Jacob Joseph appears for the Petitioners. Anusha Samaranayake, S.S.C., for the Respondents.

26.08.2011.

28.10.2011.

2

H.N.J. Perera, J.

The Petitioners filed this application seeking a Writ of Certiorari to

quash the notice dated 26.02.2009 sent by the Respondent to the

Petitioners under the State lands (Recovery of Possession) Act No. 7

of 1979. The petitioners also seek a Writ of Prohibition prohibiting

Respondent from taking any further steps under the State lands

(Recovery of Possession) Act No. 7 of 1979 to evict the Petitioner's

club from the premises set out in the notice dated 26.02.2009 sent

by the Respondent to the Petitioners. The Respondent is the

Commissioner of Local government (Western Province) attached to the

Department of Local Government (Western province).

The Petitioners are the Members of the Committee of Management

and the President, Secretary and Threasurer respectively of the

Dehiwela Mt. Lavinia Cosmopolitan Sports Club which IS a

unincorporated Association and has been in occupation for more than

80 years in the premises which is more fully described in the schedule

to the petition. In paragraphs 5 and 6 of the petition, the petitioners

3

claim that the said Club has been a leading and popular Tennis club

in Sri Lanka and was established over 80 years ago in the year 1929

and the club has a large Membership comprising constitutents of

Dehiwela Mt. Lavinia electorate and the said club is affiliated to Sri

Lanka Tennis Association and the all Island open ranking Tennis

tournament of the Sri Lanka Tennis Association commences every

year on this Tennis Court maintained by the said Club. In paragraph

12 of the petition the petitioners further state that the said Club has

spent Millions of Rupees over period of time in constructing and

maintaining on the said property Tennis Courts, boundary walls,

fencing and building to provide recreational facilities to his members

and their guests. In paragraphs 13, 14 of the petition, the petitioner

state that on or about 14.11.2000 the then Mayor of the Council sent

a letter dated 14.11.2000 and threatened to take possession of the

property from the club within 2 weeks from the date of the letter,

and the club filed a Writ Application No. C.A. 143112000 to quash

the said notice sent by the then Mayor to prevent illegal take over of

the property from the club and the said application was dismissed by

the Court on the ground that the letter dated 14.11.2000 sent by the

then Mayor through an Attorney-at-Law did not have the legal sanctity

4

flowing from the statutory authority to evict the petitioners club from

the said premises and that therefore a Writ would not lie against such

letter. In paragraph 15 and 16 of the petition, the petitioners further

state that they also filed an action in the District Court of Mt.

Lavinia Case No. 1389/2000L and sought a declaratory and injuctive

relief against the then Mayor to vindicate their rights on the said land

and premises and that too was dismissed on a preliminary Issue of

law of not giving 30 days notice to the Municipal Council prIor to

filing the said action. The Petitioners state that the Respondent has

now sought to send the purported notice marked "A" annexed to the

petition under the State Lands (Recovery of Possession ) Act No. 7

of 1979 and has requested the petitioners club to leave the premIses

which they have been occupying for more than 80 years.

It is the position of the petitioners that the decision

taken by the Respondent identifying the property as set out in the

said schedule to the notice marked "A" as state land contrary to law

and that the Respondent cannot act under the provisions of the State

Land (Recovery of Possession) Act No. 07 of 1979 in evicting the

Petitioners club which has been in occupation for more than 80 years

5

on the land in question and further state that in any event that the

Respondent has no authority to serve the purported notice marked "A"

under the provisions of State Lands (Recovery of Possession) Act

No. 7 of 1979 to evict the petitioners club and the notice served by

the Respondent is a nullity. In paragraph 21 of the petition the

petitioners state that the purported notice marked "A" contained

reference to a private survey plan made in November 2008 and that

there is no Survey General's plan referred to in the purported notice

sent by the Respondent to show the land in question is a State Land

to seek recovery under the State Lands (Recovery of Possession) Act

No. 7 of 1979.

The Respondent in paragraph 8 of his objections, whilst

denying the averments containing in paragraph 21 of the Petition

states that Plan 2592 dated 22.11.2008 referred to in the notice

marked "A" is based on two other plans referred to bearing Nos. (P P

17544 and P P 359141 and that the original acquisition had been

affected in accordance with Plan 359141 dated 14.3.1924 prepared

under plan of the Survey General. Further the Respondent whilst

denying the averments in paragraphs 22 to 25 of the petition states

6

that the land in question is State Land which comes under the control

of the Dehiwela Mt. Lavinia Municipal Council and that the

petitioner is in unauthorized occupation of the said land which is

required by the Dehiwala - Mt. Lavinia Municipal Council for

Development activities and that the Respondent IS the authority

competent to issue a notice to the Petitioners to quit the land in

question in terms of the State Lands (Recovery of Possession) of Act

No. 7 of 1979. Although in the petition several questions of law had

been raised, at the hearing of this application, Learned Counsel for

the Petitioners confined his submissions to only one question of law

namely whether the Respondent in this case has any authority to

serve the purported notice marked "A" under the provisions of the State

Lands (Recovery of Possession) Act No.7 of 1979. It was contended

on behalf of the Petitioners that the said notice marked "A" has not

been issued by the proper authority, that the said notice has been sent

by the Commissioner of Local Government and that the Provincial

Council does not have power or authority to issue the said quit

notice. The Petitioners do not challenge the said quit notice marked

"A" or any other grounds. The Petitioners' contention IS that the

Respondent who has issued the said notice has no power or authority

7

to issue the said notice to the Petitioners and therefore the said notice

marked "A" is a nullity. The said quit notice marked "A" has been

sent by H. Sumanapala, Commissioner of Local Government Western

Province Colombo 7. It is the contention of the Respondent that the

land in question is a State land which comes under the control of

Dehiwala - Mt. Lavinia Municipal Council. In paragraph 9 of the

objections the Respondent states that the said land was originally

acquired under the provisions of the Small Town Sanitary Ordinance

1892 by a vesting order made under the hands of the Governer of

Ceylon marked and annexed lRI and upon the establishment of the

Dehiwala - Mt. Lavinia Urban Council in 1940, the said ordinance

was repeated and the property acquired within its administration area

was transferred to the Urban Council III accordance with the

provisions of the Urban council's Ordinance No. 61 of 1979 and

further upon the establishment of the Dehiewala - Mt. Lavinia

Municipal council in 1959. The said Council succeeded to property in

question in terms of the Municipal Council Ordinance No. 29 of 1970

as amended and therefore the Respondent has the authority to issue

the said notice to the Petitioners to quit the land in question in terms of

the State Land of (Recovery of Possession) Act No. 7 of 1979 as

8

amended. Learned Counsel for the Respondent submitted that in VIew

of the provisions of the Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions)

Act No. 12 of 1989, the Respondent has the power and Authority to

issue the quit notice marked "A" to the petition. Section 21 (b) of the

said Act is as follows:-

"Where any power or function IS conferred on, or

assigned to a Minister to a public officer, as the case may be, by

any written law made prior to November 14th 1987 on any matter set

out in list 1 of the Ninth schedule such power or function may

(a) ................. .

(b) if such power or function IS conferred on, or assigned to, a

public officer, be exercised or discharged, In relation to a

province and unless the context otherwise reqUIres, by the office

of the Provincial public service holding an office corresponding

to the office held by such public officer; and accordingly,

references in every such written law to a public officer shall be

deemed to include a reference to the officer of the Provincial

Public Service who holds an office corresponding to the office

held by such public officer.

•

9 •

Therefore this Court is of the VIew that the Respondent

is the authority competent to issue the said notice to the Petitioners to

quit the said land in question in terms of the State Land (Recovery of

Possession) of Act No. 7 of 1979, and that the Petitioners do not

disclose any valid ground upon which the quit notice could be

challenged and the said quit notice marked "A" is valid and lawful

and has been issued in conformity with the provisions of the relevant

law and the Petitioners are not entitled to the relief prayed for. This

Court finds no merit in the application filed by the petitioners and

accordingly dismisses the same with costs.

Application dismissed.

JUDG

S. Sriskandarajah, J.(P/C.A)

I agree.

.~. //~'-PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

AKN

\

f r