==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE C()URT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CAEP03/20 10

Before

Counsel

Argued on

In the matter of an Election Petition in terms

Of Section 92 of the Parliamentary Election Act N8 1 of 1981 read with Article 144 of the

Constitution

Sisira de Abrew J

K. Thiruchchelvan

Petitioner

Dayananda Dissanayake Commissioner of Election.

And 21 7 Others

Respondents

Kang Iswaran President's Counsel with J.Laxman and

HV Vamadeva for the Petitioner A Gnanathasan President's Counsel, ASG with Yuresha Fernando SC for the 1 st and 2nd Respondents

Nihal Jayamanne President's Counsel with Kushan de Alwis, Chandra Liyanapatabendy and D.de Silva for 3d and 4th to 9th Respondents.

~IA Sumarithiran with Juanita Arulananthan for the

199th to 204th Respondents.

28.2.2012 and 6.3.2012

2

Decided on 30.5.2012

Sisira de Abrew J.

When this case was taken up learned Additional Solicitor

General (ASG) appearing for the 1 st and the 2nd respondents raised following

three preliminary objections.

1. The notice of presentation of the election petition had not been served

by the petitioner on the 1 st and the 2nd respondent within the time limit

stipulated in Rule 14 in the 4th schedule of the Parliamentary Election

Act No.1 of 1981.

2. Paragraphs 10,11,12,14,15 and 22 of the petition contained specific

allegations of corrupt practice committed by the 3rd respondent. But

the petitioner failed to support these allegations by an affidavit in

contravention of the mandatory provisions of Section 98 (d) of the

Parliamentary Election Act No.1 of 1981.

3. Paragraphs 13,14,17 and 19 of the petition contained specific

allegations of corrupt practice committed by easily identifiable

persons. But the petitioner has failed to join them as respondents in

contravention of the mandatory provisions of Section 97 (1) (b) of the

Parliamentary Election Act No.10f 1981 and also failed to support the

allegation by an affidavit in contravention Section 98( d) of the said

Act.

Learned President's Counsel appeanng for the petitioner submitted that

notices of presentation of the petition were delivered at the office of the

Registrar of the court of Appeal within ten days of filing of the petition and

that the petitioner has complied with Rule 14.

3

Rule 14 of the Parliamentary Election Act reads as follows:

14. (1) Notice of the presentation of a petition, accompanied by a copy

thereof shall, within ten days of the presentation of the petition-

(a) be served by the petitioner on the respondent; or

(b) be delivered at the office of the Registrar for service on the respondent,

and the Registrar or the officer of his department to whom such notice

and copy is delivered shall, if required, give a receipt in such form as

may be approved by the President of the Court of Appeal.

(2) The service under paragraph (1) of notice of the presentation ofa petition

and copy thereof by the petitioner on the respondent may be effected either

by delivering such notice and copy to the agent appointed by the respondent

under rule 9 or by posting them in a registered letter to the address given

under rule 9 at such time that, in the ordinary course of post, the letter would

be delivered within the time above mentioned or by a notice published in the

gazette stating that such petition has been presented and that a copy of it

may be obtained by the respondent on application at the office of the

Registrar.

(3) Where notice of presentation of a petition, accompanied by a copy

thereof, as delivered under paragraph (1) at the office of the Registrar for

service on the respondent, such service may be effected in the same manner

as the service of a notice issued by a court is effected under the Civil

Procedure Code.

There is no evidence to suggest that the petitioner on his own

served notice of presentation on the respondents. Therefore the petitioner

•

4

cannot rely on the mode of service envisaged under Rule 14(1)(a). The

petitioner is relying on Rule 14( 1 )(b). The election petition was filed on

11.5.2010. Journal entry dated 2.6.2010 reveals that the notice has been

tendered at the office of the Registrar Court of Appeal on 2.6.2010.

According to Journal entry dated 7.6.2010, notice of presentation of the

petition has been dispatched on 7.6.2010. Thus the said notice has not been

served on the respondents within ten days of the presentation of the petition.

The contention of learned President's Counsel (PC) for the

petitioner is that notices of presentation of the election petition were

delivered at the office of the Registrar of the Court of Appeal within ten

days of the filing of the election petition an as such he had complied with

Rule 14( 1)(b). Learned PC contends that along with the motion dated

17.5.2010 the petitioner tendered relevant notices and the stamp envelopes

to the office of the Registrar of the Court of Appeal. Although the motion

says so the journal entry dated 18.5.2010 does not indicate such a delivery. I

am therefore unable to agree with the said contention. Learned PC further

contended that when the case was taken up on 24.5.2010 petitioner's counsel

informed Court that notices, as required by the rules, had been tendered to

the office of the Registrar of the Court of Appeal. According to the journal

entry dated 24.5.2010 such submission had been made. But journal entries of

the case record do not indicate that such notices had been tendered to the

office of the Registrar of the Court of Appeal before 24.5.2010. The

petitioner has failed to produce any receipt to prove his position. Under Rule

14 the petitioner has the right to ask for such receipt. When I consider all

these matters I am unable to agree with the submission of learned PC.

5

I now advert to the 1 st objection raised by the learned ASG. The

question whether compliance under rule 14 is mandatory or not was

considered by a bench of three judges of the Supreme Court in Nanayakkara

V s Kiriella [1985] 2SLR page 391. In the said case notices of presentation of

the election petition was delivered at the office of the Registrar Court of

Appeal within ten days of the filing of the election petition, but the notices

could not be served on some of the respondents within ten days of the filing

of the election petition. The election judge ruled that the petitioner had not

complied with Rule 15(1 )(b) in the 3rd schedule of the Ceylon

(Parliamentary Election) Order in Council 1946. The said Rule 15 is in terms

identical with Rule 14 in the 4th schedule of the Parliamentary Election Act

No 1 of 1981. In the said case it was contended that what was required under

Rule 15( 1 )(b) was to deliver the notices of presentation of the election

petition within ten days of filing of the petition to the registry of court. It

was further contended in the said case that ten day limit was applicable only

to sub paragraph (a) of Rule 15. His Lordship Justice Collin Thome with

Justice Thambiah agreed held at page 397-398: "that governing words

'within ten days of the presentation of the petition' in Rule 15( 1) apply to all

and every mode of service set out in Rule 15. It is mandatory for all modes

of service so as to ensure service within the specified time limit. Under Rule

15 (1 )(b) where the notices are tendered to the Registrar for service, both the

delivery and the service must be effected within ten days. His Lordship

Collin Thome further held that the failure to serve notices on the respondents

within the mandatory ten day period was a fatal defect. I am bound by this

judgment. The contention of learned President's Counsel for the petitioner

was that the petitioner discharges his burden under Rule 14(1) (b) of the

Parliamentary Election Act when the notices are delivered at the registry of

6

Court within ten days of filing the petition. But this contention cannot be

accepted as correct in view of the above judgment. Applying the principles

laid down in the above judicial decision I hold that serving of notice of the

presentation of the election petition on the respondents under paragraph (a)

or (b) of rule 14 within ten days is mandatory and failure to do so is fatal. As

I pointed out earlier the election petition was filed on 11.5.2010 and the

notice of the presentation of the election petition was dispatched to the

respondents on 7.6.2010. Thus the notices of the presentation of the election

petition were not served on the respondents within ten days of the filing of

the election petition. For these reasons I hold that the petitioner has not

complied with Rule 14 of the Parliamentary Election Act No 1 of 1981 which

is mandatory. For the above reasons I uphold the 15t preliminary objection.

The petition of the petitioner should be dismissed on this ground alone.

I now advert to the 2nd preliminary objection. In order to appreciate

this objection it is necessary to consider Section 98( d) of the Parliamentary

Election Act which reads as follows:

"An election petition-

Shall set forth particulars of any corrupt or illegal practice that the petitioner

alleges, including as full a statement as possible of the names of the parties

alleged to have cornrnitted such corrupt or illegal practice and the date and

place of the commission of such practice, and shall also be accompanied by

an affidavit in support of the allegation of such corruptor illegal practice and

the date and place of the commission of such practice."

Learned President's Counsel for the petitioner contended that tiling

of an affidavit was not necessary. But when one reads the said section, it is

clear that if the petitioner alleges corrupt or illegal practice, in terms of

• 7

Section 98( d) of the Act, it is necessary for him to support such allegations

by way of an affidavit. Therefore I am unable to accept the contention of

learned President's Counsel. vVhcn one reads paragraph 10,11,12,14,15 and

22 of the petition, it is clear that the said paragraphs contain specific

allegations of corrupt and illegal practice committed by the 3 rd respondent.

The petitioner has failed to file an affidavit along with his petition

supporting the averments in the above paragraphs. I therefore hold that the

petitioner has not complied with Section 98( d) of the Parliamentary Election

Act. For these reasons I uphold the 2nd preliminary objection raised by the

learned Addl. Solicitor General. In view of the conclusion reached on the 1 st

and the 2nd preliminary objections, it is not necessary to consider the 3rd

preliminary objection. I have earlier upheld the 1 st and the 2nd preliminary

objections .. I therefore dismiss the petition of the petitioner with costs.

Petition dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.