==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA (WRIT) 560/2007

Ultra Tech Ceylinco (Pvt.) Limited NO.81/11/1, New Nuge Road, Peliyagoda, Kelaniaya

Petitioner Vs. 1. Sarath Jayathillake The Director General, Sri Lanka Customs, Customs House,, Bristol Street, Colombo 01. 2. K. Yohanathan alias Yoganathan Superintendant of Customs Sri Lanka Customs,2nd Floor, Hemas Building Bristol Street, Colombo 01. 3. P. Saman de Silva Superintendent of Customs Customs BOI Coordinating Unit [CBCU] Sri Lanka Customs, 2nd Floor Hemas Building, Bristol Street, Colombo 01. 4. S underal ingam Superintendent of Customs Customs BOI Coordinating Unit [CBCU] Sri Lanka Customs, 2nd Floor, Hemas Building Bristol Street, Colombo 01. 5. Kulenthiran Assistant Director of Customs Sri Lanka Customs, Customs House, Bristol Street, Colombo 01.

Respondents

I J t 1

\ 1 I

1 i

j

l. I 1 , ! 1 I l I I I .\ i I 1 i

1 I I I I

t 1 ! I

~ , ! 1 I I I l 1 1 I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for Writs of

Certiorari under and in terms of Article 140 of

the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist

Republic of Sri Lanka.

*******

C.A. (Writ) Application No. 560/2001

BEFORE : Deepali Wijesundera J.

COUNSEL : D.S.Wijesinghe P C with Ms.Kaushalya

Molligoda and Isuru Somadasa and

G. Wickramasurendra for the

Petitioner.

: D.S.G. Arjuna Obeysekara for the

Respondents.

ARGUED ON : 20th January, 2014.

DECIDED ON : 28th March, 2014.

1

Deepali Wijesundera J.

The petitioner who is a Limited Liability Company has filed this

application against the 1 st to 5th respondents seeking several writs

against them prayed for in paragraph 52 of the petition. When this case

was taken up for argument the petitioner restricted their prayer to

paragraph 52 prayer (b) which is for a writ of certiorari to quash the

decision of the 1 st to 4th respondents to conduct the inquiry bearing no.

CBCU/2006/19 against the petitioners.

The petitioner company is engaged in packing and sale in the

local market ordinary Portland cement imported from several countries

including India, Indonesia, Spain and The UAE (P1 and P2). Ultra Tech

Cement Limited (UTCL) India is the principal supplier of bulk cement to

the petitioner which is 80% of the supply. The petitioner company has

paid customs Import Duty, Social Responsibility Levy, Port and Airport

Levy and Value added Tax on the total value of the imports. The

petitioner has declared dividends for the financial years 2003, 2004 and

2005 in a sum of Rs. 216 Million and the said dividends have been

remitted to UTCL India.

2

In 2005 an investigation has been launched against cement

importers in respect of under invoicing cement imports. The port

clearance audit branch of the customs together with the Revenue Task

Force carried out random inquiries and investigations into goods cleared

by importers. The petitioner's import documents were also examined by

the 2 nd and 3rd respondents and their team of officers under the said

random investigation. The examination of petitioner's documents have

revealed that the petitioner had submitted false value declaration forms

and cleared large consignments of cement without payment of the

appropriate customs duties and levies. An investigation was launched

into the imports of the petitioner and steps were taken under Sec. 9 of

the Customs Ordinance. The petitioner was requested to forward

documents set out in letter date 16/10/2006 addressed to petitioner

(marked as P6). On receipt of the petitioner's documents 2nd, 3rd and 4th

respondents have examined the said documents and it has transpired

that the petitioner had submitted false value declaration forms and

remitted a large sum of money by way of dividends to UTCL India. The

directors of the petitioner company were summoned (P8) for and inquiry

and the inquiry was held on seven days. The evidence of the 2nd

respondent was recorded and he was under cross examination by the

petitioner's counsel when this application was filed by the petitioner

company.

3

The petitioner argued that an inquiry under Sec. 8 of the Customs

Ordinance cannot be conducted since the alleged violation relates to

valuation and the procedure set out in section 51 A of the Customs

Ordinance must be followed.

The petitioner also submitted that the dividends cannot be

considered when deciding on the transaction price of the imports of bulk

cement to Sri Lanka. The petitioner submitted the purported inquiry is

completely misconceived in law and that there is no requirement under

the provisions of schedule "E" of the Customs Ordinance.

The argument of the respondents was that the petitioner having

participated at the inquiry on several dates is estopped from now

claiming that the holding of an inquiry is ultra vires. They also submitted

that holding of an inquiry will be beneficial to the petitioner.

The respondents stated that in terms of the Customs Ordinance

as amended by Act No. 2 of 2003 the value of any part of the proceeds

of any subsequent resale, disposal or use of imported goods that

accrues directly or indirectly to the seller including dividends shall be

added to the transaction value for the purpose of determining the

4

I

customs duties payable on the said goods and that this is a mandatory

provision of law and cannot be evaded by importers whatever may be

their internal arrangement.

The respondents submitted that the transaction value declared

by the petitioner is false in terms of schedule E of the Customs

Ordinance as amended and that the customs is entitled to call for

documents and examine in order to ascertain if the relationship

influence the price hence the need for the customs inquiry. The

respondents submitted that the petitioner's application is premature

since there has not been any determination made against the petitioner.

UTCL India is the principal supplier of bulk cement to the

petitioner making the transaction a "related party transaction" as

provided in schedule E of the Customs Ordinance. The petitioner has

however not disclosed in the value declaration form which is a

mandatory requirement under Sec. 51A. The petitioner has declared

dividends in a sum of Rs. 216 Million for 2003, 2004 and 2005 the bulk

of which has been remitted to UTCL of India. The issue therefore is

whether the principal supplied cement at a lower price, thereby paying a

lower amount as customs duty and thereafter recovered the actual cost

of the cement through dividends on which customs duty has been paid

5

I j 1 1 I , I I

thereby defrauding the revenue due to the state. The basic rule of

valuation is set out in Article 1 of the schedule "E".

The petitioner has suppressed facts from the customs by making

false declarations in the value Declaration forms submitted to customs

and thereby defrauding the country of revenue.

It is common ground between the parties that what is now being

conducted is a post clearance investigation and therefore what is

applicable is Sec. S1A(2).

Sec. 51A (2) reads as follows:

If an officer of customs is satisfied as a result of an examination or

investigation, or an audit carried out under section 128A, at any

time prior to or after the clearance of the goods that the value

declared by the importer or his agent under an Article of Schedule

E under which the value was initially accepted, is not appropriate

the officer of customs may amend the value in accordance with the

appropriate Article of Schedule E.

6

I

~ I

If I

The petitioner having participated in the Sec. 8 inquiry for seven

days is estopped from now saying the holding of the inquiry is ultra

vires. There has not been any determination made against the petitioner

by the 1st to 4th respondents for this court to issue a writ of certiorari as

prayed for in prayer (b) of the petition.

For the afore stated reasons the application of the petitioner is

dismissed with costs fixed at Rs. 50,0001=.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

7