==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

R. M. Malinie Rathnayake

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

C.A 74/2011

H.C. Badulla 260/2003

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDEDON:

Anil Gooneratne J.

Malinie Gunaratne J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDNET

Dr. Ranjit Fernando for the Accused-Appellant

Sarath Jayamanne D.S.G. for Complainant-Respondent

11.07.2014

25.08.2014

1

! t ,

~ 1 t , Ii

~ t t II!

i ; , II

~, ,

I

f. t r ri , ,

2

GOONERATNE J.

Two Accused-Appellants were indicted in the High Court of Badulla,

for the murder of one Wijepala on or about 26.5.2000, along with the

deceased 2

nd Accused. Since the 2nd Accused was dead by the time indictment

was forwarded, trial proceeded against the 1st and 3rd Accused-Appellants. The

1st Accused is the wife of the deceased and the 3rd Accused is the son-in-law.

Appellant was convicted and sentenced to death. The 3rd Accused was

acquitted after trial.

The prosecution version is that, witness No. 1 the brother of the

deceased testified that on the day of the incident he had gone to the paddy

field at about 10/11 a.m. and the 1st Accused had met him near an ella and

told him that the deceased did not come home the previous night. Thereafter

the witness and another brother of the deceased had gone in search of the

deceased. They found the deceased lying face down dead in another paddy

field in the area. That seems to be the gist of that witness's evidence. The

other witness Chellvam (witness No.2) provided all necessary details. He was a

3

servant of the deceased family for some time and he had been assisting the

deceased in plucking tea leaves, and had associated with the family very

closely. On the day in question he had been with the deceased and had even

consumed liquor with the deceased. It is in evidence that between the two,

half a bottle of liquor had been consumed. Having consumed liquor the

deceased went to install live wires to prevent pigs and other animals entering

the deceased plantation and this seem to be a routine thing done every day.

Witness went home and the 1st, 2nd & 3rd Accused and daughter of the 1st

Accused were at home at that time. He went to sleep in another room with the

deceased 2nd Accused. There is evidence to suggest that the 1

st Accused and

the 3rd Accused were together suggesting intimate relationship and at that

time of the night both were together. After some time the witness heard the

deceased quarrelling with the 1st Accused-Appellant and there had been a

commotion. The deceased abused the 1st Accused-Appellant in bad language.

The 2nd Accused at that moment itself took a club from the kitchen and

attacked the deceased on the head area and the blows struck the deceased

ears and head. The deceased fell and the witness said he died. Witness also

testified that the 1st Accused who was present uttered the words iI®O@)

4

~)(j~~ ceDd (f~ ~ ~ 6ee:»" After about 15 minutes the

deceased regained consciousness and asked for water. The 1st Accused-

Appellant has taken a tumbler and poured water and mixed it with 'Kurator'

(pesticide) and made the deceased drink it. Half an hour later the deceased

died and it was said so by the 3rd Accused-Appellant. Thereafter the Accused

party on the instructions of the 1st Accused-appellant dumped the deceased in

the paddy field on the live wires.

There is also evidence that the 1st Accused-Appellant threatened the

witness not to divulge the incident. Witness also provides details of the

Accused party taking the body to the paddy field and gives details of injuries,

near the ear cord and forehead.

The position of the Accused

The learned counsel for the Accused-Appellant referred to the dock

statement of the Accused-Appellant. However he did not specifically deny the

fact that 1st and 3rd Accused had an intimate relationship with each other.

Learned counsel for the Accused-Appellant attempted to demonstrate the

dissensions between husband and wife. The deceased had been constantly

5

quarrelling with the Accused-Appellant. On the day in question the deceased

abused and provoked the Accused party and invited court to consider a lesser

offence, and also mentioned about the medical evidence.

The learned Deputy Solicitor General supported the prosecution case

and the judgment of the learned High Court Judge. He drew the attention of

this court to the fact of making the deceased drink poisonous substance by the

Accused-Appellant very well knowing that it would take the life of the

deceased. However he left the matter in the hands of court.

When I consider the judgment of the learned High Court Judge and

the evidence led at the trial, there is no doubt that this is another brutal crime

to pour poison into deceased's mouth after a terrible attack with a club gives

the impression of the murderous intention of the Accused without any doubt.

However I find that there is an aspect of mitigation of the crime which the

High Court Judge has not considered. There is some evidence which has

surfaced of intimate relationship between the Accused-Appellant and the 3

rd

Accused who had been acquitted. Even on the day of the incident the main

witness for the prosecution testify that the 1

st and 3

rd Accused were together

prior to the arrival of the deceased who came home drunk. Learned High Court

Judge merely state they were together but does not elaborate any further

6

views on that aspect. The main prosecution witness is a truthful witness who

gives correct details of the incident although some contradictions were

marked which does not appear to harm the prosecution case or cast doubts in

the prosecution case. Medical evidence supports poisoning. The 3rd Accused

arrived at the house of the Accused and the deceased after a period, since he

may be living elsewhere, with the daughter of the deceased. The question of

intimate relationship was fortified by the defence suggesting or asking

questions repeatedly. There had been an exchange of words using bad

language between the deceased and the Accused-Appellant immediately

before the attack. Further the deceased was drunk, at that time. It is

reasonable to infer that the illicit relationship resulted in a quarrel, which led

to the death of the party. Killing was not murder but reduced at least to

culpable homicide by reason of provocation to which the Accused had been

exposed, together with an illicit relationship projected at the given moment.

There is evidence that this sort of conduct between the parties had prevailed

for some time prior to the incident.

In all the above circumstances we would substitute a verdict of

culpable homicide not amounting to murder and impose a sentence of 15

7

years rigorous imprisonment with a fine of Rs. 2500/- which carries a default

sentence of one year rigorous imprisonment. Subject to above, Appeal

dismissed.

Sentence varied.

(]r~~

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne J.

I agree. H.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

I I I I

\ ,I

f ! 1,

\ i I

! IIIII,

~ !t , I