==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

CA. Application No:270/2010

BEFORE

COUNSEL

In the matter of an application Under and in terms of Article 140 of the Constitution for a Mandate in the nature of a Writ of Certiorari.

1. Rural Resorts Limited, No.3, R.A. de Mel Mawatha, Colombo 05.

2. Subramaniam Thianamany, Director, Rural Resorts Limited, 198, Riverdale Road, Kandy.

PETITIONERS Vs.

Mr.N.W. Yapa

Divisional Secretary, Divisional Secretariat Tangalle.

RESPONDENT

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (PICA)

Faisz Musthapa PC with Faizer Marker,

for the Petitioners,

Anusha Samaranayake sse

for the Respondents.

\

Argued on

Decided on

S.Sriskandarajah.J,

17.01.2012

15.05.2012

2

The 1st Petitioner is a company registered under the Companies Act No.17 of

1982 and the 2nd Petitioner is the Managing Director of the 1st Petitioner Company. The

Petitioner submitted that the 1st Petitioner Company is engaged in the business of

coconut plantation. The land in dispute is Lot No.72 in Plan No FVP 315. The

Petitioner claims that he has obtained the said land by a Deed of Transfer bearing

Nos.494, 495, 496 and 497 dated 23rd September 1994, attested by Gratien E. Perera,

Notary Public of Colombo, the said land containing in extent of 4 acres 2 roods and 12

perches. The Petitioner submitted that the Petitioner Company has expended large

sums of money in developing and planting coconuts on the said land. On 11/03/2010,

the 1st Petitioner Company had received a notice from the Respondent, acting under

Section 3 of the State Land (Recovery of Possession) Act requesting the Petitioners to

vacate from the said land on or before 12th of April 2010. The Petitioner also submitted

that one Chandini Jayashantha was the caretaker of the said property at the time of the

serving of the said notice, but he is no longer the caretaker of the said property. The

Petitioners' position is that the said land was occupied by the Petitioners for a long time

and the Petitioners have been in undisturbed and uninterrupted possession. In these

circumstances the Respondent has acted without jurisdiction to recourse to the

provisions of the State Lands (Recovery of Possession) Act. The Petitioners contended

that if there is a title dispute, that should have been resolved by recourse to a civil

remedy and, therefore, the issue of the said quit notice under the State Lands (Recovery

of Possession) Act is ultra vires and hence it should be quashed by of a Writ of

Certiorari.

3

The Respondent submitted that Lot 721, as depicted in Plan No FVP315 is a State land as depicted in the tenement list, and this has been confirmed by a recent survey of Lot 72H and 721 conducted by the Survey Department on 7th June 2010 and depicted in tracing bearing No.H/TNG/2010/145. Accordingly the Petitioners are in unlawful occupation of Lot 721. In view of this observation, the Respondent Divisional Secretary, has formed an opinion that the said land is a State land.

Under the State Land Recovery of Possession Act, if the Competent Authority forms an opinion that the said land is a State land, the Competent Authority could take steps under the said law to take possession of the said land by issuing a quit notice. If the Petitioners are in possession of the said land with legal authority, they could submit those documents when an action in the Magistrates Court is filed to take possession of the said land under the law. On the material submitted by the Petitioners and the Respondents, the Respondent has acted within his legal authority to issue the said quit notice. Under these circumstances the Petitioners cannot invoke the jurisdiction of this Court by way of Writ of Certiorari to quash the said quit notice and therefore this Court dismissed this application without cost.

/- ./ ./ *----l- ' .....-president Court of Appeal