==== BLOCKS ==== 

..

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Court of Appeal Case No. CA 33/2008. H.C. Hambantota Case No. HC 363/2006.

The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

Complainant.

Kattadige Amarasena

Accused.

And Now Between.

Kattadige Amarasena

Accused-Appellant.

Vs.

The Democratic Socialist Republic of

Sri Lanka - (The Attorney-General).

Respondent.

Before: Sarath De Abrew, J & H.N.J. Perera, J.

~ .. ~"" Counsel: Saliya Peiris for the Accused-Appellant

Yasantha Kodagoda, D.S.G., for the Attorney-General.

Argued on: 15.05.2012.

Written Submissions Tendered on: 24.05.2012, 26.06.2012 and 13.11.2013.

Decided on: 10.03.2014.

2

Barath De Abrew. J.

The Accused-Appellant was indicted in the High Court of

Hambantota for committing the murder of his wife Sandya Kanthi

Ekanayake on 20.11.2005 at Tangalle punishable under Section

296 of the Penal Code. After trial without a jury the learned trial

judge had convicted the appellant under Section 296 of the Penal

Code and imposed the death sentence on 27.03.2008. Being

aggrieved of the aforesaid conviction and sentence, the appellant

had preferred this appeal to this Court.

At the hearing of the appeal the learned Counsel for the

appellant confined his argument to the main ground of appeal as

to the availability, on the facts of the case, to the mitigatory plea of

cumulative provocation which would have reduced the conviction

to that of Section 297 of the Penal Code, culpable homicide not

amounting to murder.

The facts briefly are as follows: The accused-appellant was

an Attorney-at-Law who once practiced at the Magistratae Court of

Walesmulla. The appellant had married the deceased on

09.11.2001 and had a son by that marriage. They were residing at

the parental house of the deceased at Halmilla Ketiya up to May

2003 whereupon the appellant purchased a land at Middeniya

3

town in his wife's name and built a two storey house and went to

reside there. One Upul Shantha Wijesinghe alias Suddha, a

relation of the deceased, was employed as the driver of the motor

car of the appellant. The appellant claimed that this driver had

developed an illicit intimacy with his wife the deceased. Around

the year 2004, the appellant had given up his profession as an

Attorney-at-Law and taken up employment in an estate III

Hiniduma as an Assistant Superintendent, leaving his wife and son

at the parental house of the wife at Halmilla Ketiya. In May 2005,

when the appellant returned home from his workplace, he had

discovered that his wife and child had disappeared from the

parental house for a few days and a brother of the wife of the

appellant had made a complaint on this matter to the Middeniya

Police. The appellant had been informed that his wife had gone to

reside at a house at Urubokka along with his driver Wijesinghe,

continuing their adulterous relationship. The wife had later

returned to the parental house, and after a severe altercation, they

had made peace and continued to live at the parental house.

According to the appellant, there had been continued conflict

and friction thereafter between the deceased and the appellant.

The deceased had continued her illicit relationship with the former

driver Wijesinghe. The appellant had transferred the Middeniya

i I I I t I I I

4

house in his mother's name and asked his wife to remove her

belongings from that house. When the appellant returned to that

house later he had found the household items dragged out and

burnt on which incident there had been an inquiry held by the

Middeniya Police. While returning from the Middeniya Police

Station, the appellant had been forcibly abducted in a three-

wheeler and rescued thereafter by the Middeniya Police, regarding

which incident the deceased and the driver Wijesinghe had been

remanded by the Walasmulla Magistrate and a criminal case was

pending. The deceased meanwhile had filed a maintenance case

against the accused. Such was the vitriolic relationship between

the accused and the deceased leading upto the fateful day of

20.11.2005.

According to the appellant, he had been informed that his

wife the deceased was planning to make a complaint to the police

against the accused on 20.11.2005 regarding the transferring of

the Middeniya house in the name of the mother of the accused.

The appellant had contacted his wife the deceased and requested

her not to make the complaint but to allow him to live in peace but

to no avail. On 20.11.2005, the appellant had come to Middeniya

town and borrowed a motorcycle from a friend (Witness No.8

Jayawickrema) and gone to Middeniya Police Station under the

5

expectation of meeting his wife there. There he had been directed

to go to Tangalle Police Station. According to the appellant he had

gone to the Tangalle Police Station in the motor cycle and met his

wife there who had come with her child to make a complaint

against the accused appellant. According to the appellant he had

begged his wife not to make the complaint and he will give her

what she wanted. However the wife had replied "Goo ®tD)®~)® ~a

~®6o cC)6) odo €V6~®~." According to the appellant he had lost

control of himself at that point due to the continued harassment

from his wife. He had noticed a knife vendor by the road side

while coming to the Tanga1le Police Station. The appellant had

gone back in his motorcycle and purchased a manna knife for

Rs. 250/- from the knife vendor, gone back towards the Tangalle

Police Station and waited in ambush for his wife to come out,

and dealt repeated blows on her neck with the knife and killed

her.

The main witness for the prosecution was eyewitness one

Pradeep Priyantha, a three wheel driver who had his three wheeler

parked before the Tangalle Hospital about 300 meters away from

the place where the incident took place. On hearing the shouts of

the deceased woman, he had run towards the Tangalle Police

Station followed by others present at the three wheel park. He

6

had described the incident as follows "~CleD ®O))C) ~ G.>l~ ®tDeD)

<g>cico~C) ~eD®o))C) 8as ®o)®eDci q65a-J q@~~) ~z®oCiCl). ®cv@(9C) tDeD

ozclO)C) 863o)oci G.>z~Cl). ~O)®O))C) G.>l~®o)eD) ClzgeD). Clz®C)eD ®tD)C)®

863o)OCl@ 2 ci G.>z~Cl). ~OzCl) Qj® Clz9eD). G.>l~®o)eD)C) eC)geD). This

witness has further testified

®o)@Se ozclO)C). ~Cl~) ®G5DgCl (9(3)~

8630 CiS O)~) O))~ClC). qcl®~O) Ccic®G.>eD ®o)@Se qz~~C) <&30)."

Witness Sumanasena, a knife vendor, had testified that he

sold a knife shaped like a fish to the accused who came in a

blue coloured motorcycle shortly before the incident that morning.

Witness Jayawickrama a businessman of Middeniya, had testified

as to his lending his blue coloured motorcycle to the accused that

morning to go to the Middeniya Police Station. The accused had

borrowed his motorcycle on two previous occasions. Father of the

deceased, Hemaplala Ekanayake had testified for the prosecution,

followed by the doctor who performed the post-mortem

examination on the dead body and Police Officers of the Tangalle

Police Station. Saman Keerthi Muthumala, another three wheel

driver, who rushed to the scene on hearing shouts, had testified

that the deceased woman was already fallen in a pool of blood

when he reached the scene and they chased after the suspect

who was running towards the police station with the knife.

7

At the end of the prosecution case, the accused appellant

had given a lengthy dock statement tracing the various conflicts

and upheavals in his married life with the deceased. He had met

his wife the deceased that morning at the Tangalle Police Station

and pleaded with her not to make a complaint against him but she

had retorted "Goo ~~6 ClC)6) 0>®(3 odo Q)6~~~." The appellant

had taken up the position that, in the backdrop of the previous

incidents of harassment caused to him by his wife, he had lost

control of himself at that point, went back in his motor cycle and

purchased the weapon in order to frighten her. He had stated" ®®

Gcic:l)~ C)~<9 ®)C) qO~go»C)ClC) ociC)o~ ~C) ®)C) e;~)~C)o~ ~C)

C)6clC) (5)~~. qzCl ~ ~8® ~(Clcl qz~~e; ~z~z. ®C) ®)C) O)~~Cl

C)O(3)~~ Q)zaa30) ®® qzClC) S~~Cl~ o~o ~~~)." Therefore the

accused had admitted the killing but had taken up the mitigatory

plea of grave and sudden provocation or cumulative provocation

on the basis that he had lost control of himself due to the actions

of the deceased wife.

The Registrar of the Wallesmulla Magistrate Court had been

called as a defence witness and had testified as to the criminal

case pending against the deceased as to the abduction of the

accused. The former Officer-in-charge of Middeniya Police had also

8

given evidence for the defence and testified with regard to the

complaints made in May 2005 by the brother of the deceased

and the accused as to the disappearance of the deceased where the

allegation was that she had eloped with the driver Wijesinghe

alias Suddha.

The learned trial judge in a lengthy judgment had rejected

the defence plea of grave and sudden provocation or cumulative

provocation and convicted the appellant under Section 296 of the

Penal Code for murder and imposed the death sentence.

It is paramount duty of this court in the exerCIse of its

appellate powers to be mindful of Article 137 of the constitution in

determining whether the substantial rights of the parties had been

prejudiced or a failure of justice had been occasioned III

contemplating the reversing or varying of a judgment. With this

guideline in mind, I have perused the entirety of the proceedings,

the judgment, the written submissions

authorities submitted by both parties.

and the case law

A perusal of the judgment indicates that the learned trial

judge had arrived at the following inferences and determinations

in coming to a finding that the accused appellant had failed to

-,--,-. .. ,

,': " l

9

establish that he had been deprived of self-control due to grave

and sudden provocation at the time of commission of the offence,

on a balance of probability under Section 105 of the Evidence

Ordinance, in view of the rationale In The King Vs. James

Chandrasekere (44 NLR 97).

(a) In the backdrop of the social strata of the appellant

as an Attorney-at-Law, and in the background of a

shattered marriage, the fact that the deceased went to

the police station to make a complaint against the

accused could not be construed by itself as generating

grave and sudden provocation.

(b) Similarly, the alleged utterance of the deceased at the

Tangalle police station "Goo 63~6 oC)(3J a>®C3 000

iV(3.:!O~.:!O." too could not be construed a provocation of

such gravity, in the given background, sufficient to

deprive the accused of his self control.

(c) The fact that the appellant proceeded to the police

station in a borrowed motorcycle rather than his own

vehicle and the fact he deliberately purchased a knife

used for the killing tilts the probability more

towards a pre-planned killing on the basis of hatred

10

than due to a spontaneous act generated by grave and

sudden provocation.

(d) The evidence of recalled witness Pradeep Priyantha

that as the deceased was leaving the Tangalle police

station, the accused came from behind and turned her

around before dealing blows with the knife, indicate

that the accused was waiting in ambush for her arrival

which is more suggestive of a planned attack than

that of a spontaneous attack on the spur of the

moment generated by loss of self control due to grave

and sudden provocation.

Bearing in mind the above inferences and conclusions of

the learned trial judge I now proceed to examine the legal situation

as to the application of the mitigatory plea of grave and sudden

provocation and cumulative provocation and explore the extent of

L..,6 their applicability to the facts of this case. In relation to the

above, it is opportune to reiterate the following accepted principles

in the application of the aforesaid mitigatory plea.

(1) The accused, III order to succeed in the mitigatory

defence, must prove (by way of an objective test) that

such provocation was likely to destroy the self control of

V-j

- .]1

11

an average man of the class of society to which the

accused belonged. (Vide Gration J. in Jamis (1952) 53

NLR 401 at 403).

(2) The word "sudden" implies that the reaction of the

accused should be almost instinctive, without any

element of scheming or contriving.

(3) Where there was sufficient time for the accused to cool off

or control his emotions, provocation cannot be considered

as sudden. The length of the intervening period is a

question of fact which has to be determined in the light of

the circumstances of each case.

(4) If the accused retained his self control, the basis of the

plea of grave and sudden provocation is inapplicable,

where on the basis of venom or malignity the

accused killed his victim while being in complete control

of himself.

....... £....~ (5) The test of "grave" provocation contains a subjective, as

well as an objective element. The accused must show not

only that the provocation was sufficient to result in a

reasonable man losing his power of self-control, but that

the accused lost his own power of self-control in

consequence of the provocation.

(Vide: Rose C.J. in Muthubanda (1954) 56 NLR 217)

12

(6) The words "grave" and "sudden" are both of them relative

terms and must, at least to a great extent, be decided by

comparing the nature of the provocation with that of the

retaliatory act. It is impossible to determine whether the

provocation was grave without at the same time

considering the act which resulted from the provocation.

(Vide: Lord Goddard (Privy Council) in K.D.J Peera (1952)

54 NLR at page 266)

(7) The doctrine of continuing provocation or cumulative

provocation, which has received judicial acceptance in

our jurisdiction, introduces a qualification to the basically

objective character of the test of provocation. The

doctrine requires that a particular act of provocation

should be regarded not as an isolated event, but the

ultimate step in a chain of provocative events bestowing

increasing strain on the accused upto a breaking point in

a strained relationship.

On a corollary and analysis of the above principles

governing the mitigatory plea of grave and sudden provocation, it

is quite evident that this is a concession offered by law to human

frailty in the distinctive offence of murder under Section 296 of

the Penal Code. The essential elements that emerge from the

13

above principles are that the accused acted in the heat of

provocation on the spur of the moment without deliberation,

premeditation or calm and detached reflection. Equally, the

accused should have acted in the heat of the moment almost

instinctively, without any element of scheming or contriving.

VVhere the interval of time between the causation of the

provocation and the actual causation of the crime in retaliation is

considerable ,providing sufficient opportunity to cool off and

control his emotions, provocation cannot be considered as sudden.

In this context, the actions of the accused during this supervening

interval of time must be judicially and minutely gauged and

assessed to derive an insight as to whether the accused regained

his self-control and acted out of venom, or still retained the rage

or passion generated by the act of provocation, at the point of

killing.

In cases where there is an interval of time between the act of

provocation and the act of retaliatory killing, the burden is on the

accused to establish on a balance of probability, that all the time

during the supervening interval right upto the point of killing, the

accused suffered deprivation of self-control to receive the benefit of

the concession under Exception 1 to Section 294 of the Penal

Code.

-.. ' ~

14

(Vide: H.N.G. Fernando, C.J. III Samithamby Vs. the Queen, 75

NLR 49)

In the instant case, to succeed in the plea, the appellant has to

establish the following.

a) The last act of provocation by the wife at the

Tangalle police station (Goo 63~~ cE)(3) odo

i=V(3~~a5) was sufficiently grave (objectively) and

that as a result the appellant was sufficiently

provoked (subjectively) so as to be deprived of

his self-control.

b) During the supervening interval (of about one

hour) the subsequent conduct of the appellant

right upto the killing was all performed while the

accused appellant suffered under a loss of self

control.

In the light of the above the following salient features

spring to the eye. The chain of stressful events in the

troubled matrimonial relationship of the accused and the

deceased culminating with the deceased uttering "Goo

63~6 cE)(3) odo i=V(3~~~." at the Tangalle police station

are probably reasonably sufficient to entertain a plea of

continuing or cumulative provocation had the accused

~.A

15

retaliated on the spur of the moment if he could

reasonably show he was deprived of his self control.

However, a close perusal of the evidence on the actions of

the accused appellant thereafter shedding light on his

mental situation gives nse to a different scenano.

The actions of the accused from the point of receiving the

provocation and up to the point of retaliation, when

closely analyzed, distance the accused from entitlement

to the mitigatory plea on a balance of probability but

thrust him more towards a deliberate and calculated

attack on the deceased.

The following actions of the accused based on the

evidence illustrate the above situation vividly.

a) The very fact that the accused went back in his motor

cycle to the Tangalle town to purchase a weapon. He

had bserved the knife vendor on his way to the police

station. The probable inference is that dark thoughts

of murder had entered his mind and he was calmly

planning its execution whatever the consequences.

b) According to the knife vendor Sumanasena (page 142

of the record) he had small knives and large fish

knives for sale. The accused selected a large fish

"-_ .. 4

knife, the heavier more dangerous weapon,

manifesting the calculated intention to kill.

c) According to witnesS Sumanasena (Page 133 of the

record) he offered the larger fish knife for Rs. 275 j - to

the accused who bargained and bought it for Rs.250j-.

"ozSc~ 250 cl 260 d 63(6) EiC2®9~~~. ®® 275 cl

63EiC))® q~ Q)o~) ~r..;::Jt!j) 63EiE)® 250 cl ~r..a5~ C3C)). "If

the accused was still suffering from loss of self control,

it is most unlikely tpat he would bargain for a few

rupees.

d) According the evidence of eyewitness Pradeep

Priyantha, while the deceased was walking away from

the Tangalle police st6-tion, the accused had come from

behind, turned her around, and dealt a blow with the

knife on her neck, followed up with two more blows as

she fell down. The ioference is that the accused had

the presence of mind to waylay and ambush her to

prevent her from escaping. (page 421 of the record).

e) The subsequent conduct of the accused too was

illuminating. After dealing repeated fatal knife blows

on the deceased he pad rushed inside the Tangalle

police station with his bands raised in surrender after

throwing away the koife shouting "®® ~63 ®zozC))

----~ ------

17

e>@~® md G)Cjcl C)®ci eDl~l "(page 301 of the record)

apparently fully realizing the implications of his

criminal act and accepting its dire consequences.

In view of the above, I am of the view that the appellant has failed

to establish that he was deprived of self-control at the time of the

killing.

The facts of this case are rather unfortunate. Apparently the

accused did not intend to kill his wife when he first went to

accost her at the police station. He had not taken any weapon.

The final act of provocation at the police station probably catalyzed

his mind to entertain an instantaneous murderous intention. A

person of a lesser social strata with a more violent disposition

may have reacted differently by losing his self-control and

retaliated immediately and probably succeeded in the mitigatory

plea. On the contrary, it is unfortunate that the accused, an

Attorney-at-Law with a legally trained mind, retained is self-control

to a certain extent and gave effect to the murderous intention thus

generated in a more scheming and calculated manner. The law

does not afford concessions to the conduct of such persons, who

are nevertheless the direct fallout from grave and continuing

cumulative provocation.

18

In view of the circumstances enumerated above, I am firmly

of the view that the accused appellant had failed to prove on a

preponderance of evidence that the actus reus was committed by

him in the heat of passion whilst being deprived of his self-control

due to grave and sudden provocation or cumulative provocation.

In the event, the refusal of the learned trial judge to entertain this

mitigatory plea to accrue to the benefit of the accused could not

have caused a failure of justice under Article 137 of the

constitution. In the premise there are no valid reasons to exercise

the appellate powers of this Court on behalf of the appellant by

setting aside or varying the conviction and sentence.

In VIew of the above I affirm the conviction and sentence

dated 27.03.2008 imposed by the learned trial judge and dismiss

this appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

I agree.

H.N.J. PERERA, J.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL Mmj-.