==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIS SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

C.A No: 1196/96A F

1196/96B F

D.C Horana 2779 /P

Before A. W .A Salam, J

K.L. Kusumsiri,

13th Defendant-Appellant.

Vs.

W. N alani Ranaweera,

Plaintiff-Respondent.

Govinda Waduge Mendis,

1st Defendant-Respondent.

And other Defendants.

Respondents.

Counsel Daya Guruge for the Plaintiff- Appellant Ranjan Gunaratne for the 8A Defendant-Respondent.

Argued on 24.10.2011. Written Submissions Tendered on: 14.02.2012.

Decided on 28.01.2013. -

A W A Salam, J.

This appeal arises from the judgement of the learned

district judge directing that ·the corpus be partitioned

among the parties, whom he declared as co-owners in

the proportion of the undivided share referred to in the

judgement. Being aggrieved by the said judgement and

interlocutory decree two appeals have been preferred by

the plaintiff-appellant and 13th defendant appellant.

As far as the appeal preferred by the 13th

defendant-appellant is concerned, it is admitted that

Martin Silva was the co-owner of an undivided 10

perches of the corpus by virtue of deed marked as D22.

The said Martin Silva died leaving as his heirs his

widow Dar lin Nona and two children by the name

Kusumsiri and Sirima. The widow being entitled to

undivided 5 perches of the corpus and Sirima to an

undivided 2.5 perches have transferred their rights to

Kusumsiri who is the 13th defendant-appellant. The

learned district judge has allotted an undivided 7.5

perches to the 13th defendant-appellant while keeping

the balance 2. 5 perches belonged to Martin Silva

unallotted. The learned district judge having come to

the conclusion that the 13th defendant-appellant is a

child of Martin Silva has clearly erred in not allotting

2

his inherited rights from the deceased father. To that

extent the judgement and interlocutory decree need to

be corrected and hence the schedule of shares given in

the judgement should now stand corrected in the

following manner ...

13th defendant is entitled to an undivided 10

perches.

Accordingly, the judgment and interlocutory decree are

to be read as if no shares have been unallotted.

As far as the appeal preferred by the plaintiff-appellant

is concerned, he takes up the position that the rights of

Dinorishamy (her father) had devolved on her without

8A defendant-respondent getting any rights.

Admittedly, Dinorishamy has mortgaged an undivided

4/35 shares of the corpus to Anohamy by mortgage

bond No 375 dated 20 December 1925. Anohamy had

put the said mortgage bond in suit and obtained

3

judgement against Dinorishamy. The interest of

Dinorishamy had been sold at a public auction in the

year 1937. However, the sale by fiscal has been

confirmed only on 7 October 1958 and the fiscal

conveyance has been executed on 19 December 1958.

The plaintiff-appellant claims that the 8th defendant-

respondent had no preferential . rights over

Dinorishamy. The learned district judge held that

Dinorishamy had not acquired a valid prescriptive title

to the undivided share that was the subject of

mortgage. Having perused the judgement of the learned

district judge, I see no reason to disagree with him on

that point.

Subject to the above variation made with regard to the

entitlement of the 13th defendant, the impugned

judgement and interlocutory decree are affirmed. There

shall be no costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Vkg/-

4