==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRILANKA

C A 948 / 2000 (F) D.C. Negombo No. 3552 / L

1. Nanayakkara Senarath Appuhamilage Karunaratna Nanayakkara (deceased), 2. Karunaratna Senarath Appuhamilage Indra Biyatrice N anayakkara, Banduragoda.

PLaintiff Vs.

Jayasinghe Arachchige Somaratne, Banduragoda.

Defendant

NOW BETWEEN

Jayasinghe Arachchige Somaratne, Banduragoda.

Defendant Appellant

Vs.

1. Nanayakkara Senarath Appuhamilage Karunaratna N anayakkara (deceased), 2. Karunaratna Senarath Appuhamilage Indra Biyatrice N anayakkara, Banduragoda.

Plaintiff Respondent

f

\

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

UPAL Y ABEYRATHNE, J.

Ranjan Suwandaratne with Anil Rajakaruna for the Defendant Appellant

M.P. Ganeshvaran for the Plaintiff Respondent

13.06.2013

23.10.2013

The Plaintiff Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the Respondent)

instituted the said action against the Defendant Appellant (hereinafter referred to as

the Appellant) in the District Court ofNegombo seeking a declaration of title to the

land described in the schedule B to the plaint and to erect the boundary fence

which separated the two lands occupied by the Plaintiff and the Defendant and to

eject the Defendant from the land described in the schedule B to the plaint. The

Respondent has filed an answer praying for a dismissal of the Appellant's action.

The case proceeded to trial upon 14 issues. After trial, the learned Additional

District Judge has delivered a judgment in favour of the Respondent. Being

aggrieved by the said judgment dated 04.07.2000 the Appellant has preferred the

present appeal to this court.

At the hearing of this appeal the learned Counsel for the Appellant

contended that though the action of the Respondent is a rei-vindicatio action, the

Respondent has joined a cause of action for Definition of Boundaries in the rei-

vindicatio action.

II

[

I ,

3

I now advert to the said submission. It clearly appears from prayer (a)

of the plaint that the Respondent has sought a judgment declaring him as the owner

of the land described in the schedule 'B' to the plaint. In contrary to the said relief

the Respondent, in prayer 'b' of the plaint, has sought to erect the boundary fence

between the Appellant and the Respondent's lands. It seems from paragraph 12 and

prayer 'b' and 'c' of the plaint that the Respondent's action is for Definition of

Boundaries.

The scope of a rei-vindicatio action is larger than that of a definition

of boundaries. In a vindicatory action the claimant need nearly prove two facts;

namely, that he is the owner of the thing and that the thing to which he is entitled

to possession by virtue of his ownership is in the possession of the defendant. (See

Jinawathie and Others vs. Emalin Perera [1986] 2 Sri L.R. 121 and Theivandran

vs. Ramanathan Chettiar [1986] 2 Sri L.R.219)

On the other hand an action for definition of boundaries lies only

where parties are admittedly owners of contiguous lands and the common

boundary between the two lands has become uncertain. In an action to define

boundaries the plaintiff must show that an ascertainable common boundary

previously existed on the ground and such boundary had been obliterated

subsequently. If there is no ascertainable common boundary the action should

come to an end.

It was apparent from the evidence of the Respondent that there was a

fence between the two lands and the Appellant has destroyed said fence and has

encroach the Respondent's land. Hence it was clear that there had been an

ascertainable common boundary between the two lands and such boundary had

4

been obliterated subsequently. Apart from that the Appellant has encroach the

Respondent's land. But in an action for definition of boundaries a plaintiff cannot

seek to eject a person from a land or from a portion of land which has been

encroach by a Defendant.

In the case of Alfred Fernando vs. Julian Fernando 1987 2 SLR 78 it

was held that "In the guise of an action for definition of boundaries a plaintiff

cannot vindicate title to an encroachment."

Section 35(1) of the Civil Procedure Code stipulates that in an action

for the recovery of immovable property, or to obtain a declaration of title to

immovable property, no other claim, or any cause of action, shall be made unless

with the leave of the court. In the present case the Respondent has failed to obtain

the leave of the court.

The proceedings do not show that any application was made by the

Respondent at any stage to amend the plaint. Even at the hearing of this appeal the

Counsel for the Respondent did not seek for permission of court to amend the

plaint by striking out one of the causes of action. Though the power of amendment

conferred by section 93 is vested both in the original as well as in the appellate

Court, I do not think I should exercise that power without a proper application and

without giving the Appellant an opportunity of showing cause.

Therefore the Respondent cannot have and maintained an action for a

declaration of title coupled with an action for definition of boundaries. For the

forgoing reasons I am of the view that issue No 13 should have been answered in

the negative. Hence I set aside the judgment of the learned Additional District

Judge dated 04.07.2000 and allow the appeal of the Appellant with costs

Appeal allowed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal