==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I

I i I I

J

1 i i I

! , I I I I

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

B. Kumarasiri Fernando

(Presently at the Welikada Proson)

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

C.A. 143/2012

H.C. Panadura 2339/2007

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Sunil Rajapaksa J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney-General's Department,

Colombo 12.

RESPONDENT

Dr. Ranjith Fernando for the Accused-Appellant

Dileepa Peiris S.S.c. for the Respondent

03.04.2014

13.05.2014

1

1

1

J I l

1 1 1 J J 1 I i j t t 1 i I 1

~ 1 1

2

GOONERATNE J.

The Accused-Appellant was convicted of culpable homicide not

amount to murder and was sentenced to 12 years rigorous imprisonment and

a fine of Rs. 15,000/-, which carries a default sentence of 6 months simple

imprisonment. To set down the facts of this case briefly, are as follows:

The Accused and the deceased namely Wijeyahewage Anusha de

Silve had been having a love affair for some time. Case of the prosecution is

based only on circumstantial evidence. The main witness for the prosecution

was a security guard of a housing complex, where the deceased was residing.

The housing complex comprises of about 24 houses and only about 12 were

occupied. It is situated within an area of 18 acres. This witness was on guard

duty at a shed within the complex which was about 50/60 meters away from

the house of the deceased, which distance where one could easily see the

house of the deceased. The deceased had been living all alone in the house for

about 7 to 8 months. This house had been visited by the deceased parents and

others. The Accused also used to visit the house and the witness could identify

f

t

f

t

3

the Accused who is called 'Kumara'. Witness was able to identify the Accused

as above and also had made a dock identification. The Accused used to come

to the house of the deceased in a van described as described in evidence.

It was the position of the witness that on the day of the incident the

Accused-Appellant had visited the deceased on 3 or 4 times and he came lastly

to the house between 9.30 or 10.00 p.m. He heard the voice of the deceased

and the Accused and there had been a quarrel and exchange of words which

he describes, as in bad language which utterances were made by both of

them. The witness specifically states that he heard the deceased saying '®>e)

®ClC65'. Thereafter he learnt that the body of the deceased was found in a

nearby cemetery.

The witness also testified that when he went near the deceased

house he saw blood stains, pieces of hair and as such informed the police.

The learned counsel for the Accused-Appellant drew the attention of

this court to the trial Judge's reasoning and observation at pgs. 319/320 of the

brief and emphasized that the trial Judge has examined the case and arrived at

a conclusion that the accused did not have the intention to cause death and

the evidence led by the prosecution is that the Accused committed the offence

It I Ii

4

without premeditation in a sudden fight in the heat of passion upon a sudden

quarrel. (akin to exception 4). This would reduce the offence from murder to

culpable homicide not amounting to murder, which falls within the 2nd limb of

Section 297 of the Penal Code. On this account it was the position of the

learned counsel for the Appellant that he would not contest or canvas the

conviction but would plead in mitigation of the sentence. As such on the basis

of knowledge the maximum sentence that could be imposed was

imprisonment for 10 year of either description and a fine.

The learned Senior State Counsel however drew the attention of this

court to the item of evidence where the body was found at a cemetery, and

that the weapon which was a knife had been recovered on a section 27

statement of the Evidence Ordinance. He also emphasized on the several

injuries found on the body of the deceased which are of a severe nature.

However learned Senior State Counsel indicated that he would leave the

question of sentence in the hand of court.

We have examined the evidence led by the prosecution and the trial

judge's views on which she reduce the offence from murder to culpable

homicide not amounting to murder. It is evident that both the deceased and

the Accused were at a certain stage were in very intimate terms and had

i ! II

tI

5

continued an illicit affair which was no secret in the manner evidence was led

at the trial. On the day in question evidence led suggest that it was a sudden

fight in the heat of passion upon a quarrel. The words uttered by the two of

them in bad language amply demonstrate that the offence that was

committed or the act was done with the knowledge that it was likely to cause

death but with an absence of intention to cause death. The utterance made by

the deceased as stated above along with other items of evidence give rise to

the fact that the Accused would have had entertained suspicious feelings of

the deceased associating others, which ultimately led to a quarrel between

them. The record also does not bear the fact that the Accused had previous

convictions. He was a married person with children.

In all the above facts and circumstance of this case we would

intervene and vary the sentence of imprisonment from 12 years to 10 years

rigorous imprisonment to bring it within the 2

nd limb of Section 297 of the

Penal Code. The fine and default sentence imposed by the trial judge remains

unaltered. As such, we direct the Prison Authorities to implement the sentence

from the date of the sentencing the Accused by the learned High Court Judge.

We also direct the learned High Court Judge of Chilaw to issue fresh committal

6

indicating the sentence imposed by this court. Subject to above variation of

sentence of imprisonment the appeal of the Appellant is dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

N.S. Rajapaksa J

I agree.

-------~~L ----------~--/" ;::! ~ JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APP~