==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A.No.15/2005 H.C.Kalutara No.HC 183/02

Ratiyala Widanalage Chaminda Paragoda Bulathsinhala.

Appellant Vs. Hon. Attorney General Attorney General’s Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

1 , ! j I I

1 j l 1 i !

J I l

1

C.A.No.15l2005 H.C.Kalutara No.HC 183102

Before Sisira J. de Abrew, J. (PICA) and

P.W.D.C.Jayathilaka, J.

Counsel Dr. Rannjit Fernando for the

accused- appellant.

Dappula de Livera DSG for the A.G.

Argued and

Decided on 05.03.2014

Sisira J.de Abrew, J.(PlCA)

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused in this case was convicted of the murder of a

man named Anura Samanthilaka and was sentenced to death.

Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence he has

appealed to this Court. Facts of this case may be briefly

summarised as follows:-

The deceased was married to the sister of the accused-

appellant. On the day of the incident around 8.00 p.m. the

ffi

\!

I I i I J I

2

accused- appellant came to the ancestral house of the deceased

person armed with a Kathi and a knife and uttered the following

word " Work was done. I killed the brother" these utterances

were made to Upul Samanthilaka who is the brother of the

deceased person. Before he said the above words, he kept the

said two weapons at the door step of the house. Indrajith

~ rt.-- Smanthilaka was also present in this house says that the

"-accused-person came and uttered the following words" work was

done. I killed Anura". Witnesses made a prompt complaint to the

police. Around 1.00 a.m. on the following day police arrived at

the scene. According to the observation of the investigating

officer the deceased person was lying fallen in a bed in a room of

the deceased person's house. The blood had dripped from the

body of the deceased and there were several injuries on the body

of the deceased. The investigating officer does not say that he

saw blood anywhere else other than near the said bed. This

suggests that the attack on the deceased person had taken place

while he was lying in the bed. According to the doctor, there were

15 cut injuries on the body of the deceased. The accused in his

dock statement admitted that he went to the house of the

deceased on this day. He thereafter went to the ancestral house

t! fI

f

I

I

f, f

\

t

I

3

of the deceased person and told the inmates of the house that the

deceased was lying in a bed in the house of the deceased person.

He further says in his dock statement that the deceased person

used to assault his wife who is the sister of the accused -person.

This was the summary of the dock statement.

Learned Counsel appearing for the accused -appellan t tried

to contend that this incident taken place as a result of

cumulative provocation but we are unable to accept the said

contention due to following reasons. According to the

investigating officer the deceased person was lying in a bed in his

house with bleeding injuries. There is no evidence to suggest that

there were blood stains at any other place in the house other

than near the bed. It suggests that this incident has taken place

while the deceased person was lying in the bead. It may be the

accused-person having a ruffled mind due to the quarrel between

the deceased person and his wife. But for him to claim

cumulative provocation or grave and sudden provocation there

must be evidence that the deceased person did something to

provoke the accused person. I have earlier pointed out that the

incident had taken place whilst the deceased person was lying in

III

lfi~. I

4

the bed. Then how can one argue that the deceased person did

something to provoke the accused -appellan t?

When we consider the above facts, we are unable to arrive at

the conclusion that the accused person has acted under grave

and sudden provocation or under cumulative provocation from

the evidence led at the trial the one and only irresistible and

inescapable decision that can be arrived is that the accused

person committed the murder of the deceased person. When we

consider the evidence led at the trial, we refuse to interfere with

the judgment of the learned Trial Judge. For the above reasons

we affirm the conviction and the death sentence. We dismiss the

appeal

Appeal dismissed.

PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P. W.D.C.Jayathilaka,J.

I agree.

WC/-JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL-