==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A 184/1997 (F) D.C. Kegalle 24605/P

M.P. Siyathuwa of Halahentenna, Bodawela, Beligala.

7TH DEFENDANT -APPELLANT

M. P. Dammika Kumari of Bodawela, Beligala.

7TH SUBSTITUTED-DEFENDANT -APPELLANT

Vs.

1. W. P. Siyathuwa of Halahantenne, Bodawela, Beligala.

2. M. P. Mahinda Seneviratne of Halahantenne, Bodawela, Beligala.

SUBSTITUTED-PLAINTIFF-RESPONDENTS

1. Wickremapedge Premadasa of Akasa Kanda, Bodawela, Beligala. 2. M.P. Kirimenika of Bodawela, Beligala. 3. M.P. Sirisena of Bodawela, Beligala. 4A1 R. P. Somawathie 4A2 M.P. Dinesh Chandana 4A3 M.P. Ishara Jeevanthie

J!'IIlI

2

All of Welekade, Bodawela, Beligala.

5. M.P. Kirisaduwa of 8odawela, 8eligala. 6. M. P. Martin of Thalagala, 8eligala 7. R. P. Siyathuwa of Ambatenna, 8odawela, 8eligala. 781. R. P. Somawathie 782. R. P. Simon 783 R. P. Somapala 784 R. P. Leelawathi 785 M.P. Jayalatha 786 R. P. Mahinda Jayalal 787 R. P. Ajith Priyalal 788 R. P. Karunawathie 789 R. P. Kamalawathie 7810 R. P. J ayasekera 7811 R. P. Sumanawathie 7812 R. P. Dharmadasa ~ All of Ambatenna, l l Bodawela, Beligala I! I

8. M.P. Peetara of 8odawela, 8eligala. 8Al. H. P. Komali 8A2. M. P. Amarasiri Tilakaratne 8A3 M.P. Dayananda Amarasuriya 8A4 M.P. Nandana Premasiri 8A5 M. P. Wilson Seneviratne 8A6. M. P. A. Kusumadasa

All of Ambatenna, Bodawela, Beligala

9. R. P. Kalu ofUriledeniya, Devalagama. 10. R. P. Isadi Kalu ofUriledeniya, Devalagama. 11. R.P .Manike of 8allapana,Ambanpi ti ya

DEFENDANT -RESPOND NETS

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERA TNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J.

Kumar Dunusinghe for the 7 A Substituted-Defendant-Appellant

Bimal Rajapakse with Ravindra Anawaratne for the Plaintiff-Respondents

31.05.2012

07.02.2013

3

This is an appeal from the judgment of the District Court of

Kegalle in a partition suit. The 7 A Substituted-Defendant-Appellant is the

Appellant in this appeal. He complains that the trial judge has not analysed

and failed to act upon the evidence favourable to the said Appellant by way

of oral and documentary evidence. The Appellant allege that he produced

sufficient evidence to prove that lot 1 in the preliminary plan was cultivated

by his father 'Mohotta' with rubber under the approval of State Authorities

and the documents 7V2 & 7v3 are documents produced to prove that there

was a rubber cultivation, which had been ignored by the learned District

Judge. Further the gth Defendant's evidence that the ih Defendant-

4

appellant's father cultivated lot 1 above with rubber are valuable items of

evidence not considered by the trial judge. In the judgment the th

Defendant-Appellant's claim has been rejected.

Apart from above a very fundamental matter has been raised by

the Appellant. Plaint has been filed to partition a land called Halahantenna

Kaduruwamulahena in extent of 7 palas and 5 lahas of paddy sowing. This

converted into English standard measurements it is about 1 Acre, 2 Roods

!!and 10 Perches. Journal entry 9, indicates that the lis pendens had been

registered, though the particular of same are not available. The preliminary ll

Surveyor has surveyed a very much larger land which the Appellant

plan and it's extent does not tally with the extent shown in the plaint. The

contends to be three times the land described in the schedule to the plaint.

The preliminary plan gives an extent of 3 Acres, 3 Roods, 35 Decimal and 6

Perches.

The Plaintiff-Respondents on the other hand support the

judgment of the learned District Judge, and inter alia urge that identity

cannot be raised at this stage of the appeal, and attempt to support that by

reference to the position of the gth Defendant. Plaintiff-Respondent attempts

to attack the case of the Appellant by referring to the title deeds of the

Appellant which contends boundaries in consistent with the plan 'X' .

5

I will not consider the merits of this case. As stated above, this

court need to consider a very preliminary question. All this could be

explained by reference to the following case laws, which would be binding

on this court.

In Sopaya Vs. Magilin 1989 (2) SLR 105 ..

On receipt of the surveyor's return which disclosed that a substantially larger land was

surveyed, the District Judge should have decided on one of the following courses after

hearing the parties.

(i) To reissue the Commission with instructions to survey the land as described in

the plaint. The surveyor cold have been examined as provided in section 18(2)

of the Partition Law to consider feasibility of this course of action.

(ii) To permit the Plaintiffs to continue the action to partition the larger land as

depicted in the preliminary survey. This course of action involves the

amendment of the plaint and the taking of consequential steps including the

registration of a fresh lis pendens.

(iii) To permit any of the Defendants to seek a partition of the larger land as

depicted in the preliminary survey. This course of action involves an

amendment of the statement of claim of that defendant and the taking of such

other steps as may be necessary in terms of section 19(2) of the Partition Law.

The surveyor under section 18(1 )(a)(iii) of the Partition Law must in his report state

whether or not the land surveyed by him to substantially the same as the land sought

to be partitioned as described in the schedule to the plaint. Considering the finality

and conclusiveness that attach in terms of section 48(1) of the Partition Law to the

decree in a partition action, the Court should insist upon due compliance with this

requirement ofthe surveyor.

6

In W. Uberis Vs. M.W. Jayawardena 62 NLR 217 ...

In a partition action when a commission is issued to a surveyor to carry out a

preliminary survey, it is the duty of the surveyor to adhere strictly to its terms and to

locate and survey the land he is commissioned to survey. It is not open to him, even

with the consent of the parties, to survey a portion only of the land and submit the

plan and report of such survey. If he is unable to locate the land he is commissioned

to survey, he should so report to the Court and ask for further instructions.

In Bininda V s. Sediris Singho 64 NLR 208 ...

When preparing a preliminary plan in a partition action, it is irregular, for a surveyor,

in the absence of an additional commission issued to him under section 23( 1) of the

Partition Act, to survey and include in the corpus any land other than that which is

referred to in the plaint and which his commission authorizes him to survey. The

Surveyor will not be entitled to receive fees in respect of that part ofthe survey which

he makes in excess.

Partition Law of Sri Lanka in Practice - Mahanama Thilakaratne pgs.

33/34 (in this text reference is made to some important principles through

case law)

Failure to register Lis Pendens duly, invalidates the proceedings. On the other hand

the expenses parties have to incur would be enormous if adequate precautions are not

taken by parties and Court to ascertain due registration of Lis Pendens. This unhappy

state of affairs could be viewed from the unreported case Sansoni J. with Thambiah J.

agreeing said "The Learned District Judge had found that Lis Pendens was not duly

registered. In view of that finding, it appears to us that summons should not have

been issued on the defendants, since the correct registration of Lis Pendens was a

f

r

IIII

tI

fI

' i ' I!

tII

rII!

7

necessary step to have been taken by the plaintiff before such an order was made. We

therefore set aside the interlocutory decree entered in this case and all proceedings

taken at the trial. The case will go back in order that the plaintiff might register the

Lis pendens correctly. Thereafter summons may be issued on the defendants and the

intervenient will also have an opportunity of putting forward his claim. A fresh

commission to survey the land must also be issued. As all proceedings that have taken

place since the filing of plaint are bad, proceedings must commence de novo. Vide 63

NLR 501, "Non observance of an essential step such as due registration of Lis

Pendens renders the proceedings void, and puts back the partition action to the stage

of the acceptance of the plaint

Due registration of Lis Pendens, like due service of summons on a party is an

essential step. Failure to comply with either would not come within the term

"Omission or defect of procedure" in section 48( 1) these words should be confined to

omissions or defects of much more venial character as pointed out by Sansoni J. in 56

NLR 400.

One can imagine the immeasurable hardship parties have to undergo if Lis Pendens is

not correctly registered. Any laps of this part, vitiates all proceedings and the action

has to proceed de novo. Even summons served will not help, until the proceedings are

regularized by ensuring that Lis Pendens is registered correctly.

Having examined the material before court (as intimated by

Appellant) Registered Attorney of Plaintiff in his affidavit dated

19.6.1997 states that lis pendens registered under volume/folio E 119/148,

832/41, 854/74 but the application for registration of lis pendens states

E118/385, 648/124, 832/94 & 854/94, indicative of different volumes. As

I

1rI

II

8

such due registration under Section 6 of the Partition Law is not done

correctly.

When a larger land surface in the preliminary plan, court has to

consider Section 19(2)(b) of the Partition Law. Non observance of

essential steps would render the entire proceedings void and the case has

to commence afresh from the beginning. Even with hardships that has to

be undergone by parties, the due procedure need to be adopted. In all the

above circumstances of this case, I set aside the judgment of the District

judge and send the case back to the District Court to comply with the

necessary procedural requirements and commence the case afresh.

Judgment set aside.

Case sent back to the District Court.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

i I

fI

~

' ~ IIi 'tIIl

!I

'!f' l It