==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A.N0.1252/98 (F) D.C.GALLE CASE NO.l2340/P

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON

DECIDED ON

Petition of Appeal under Section 755(3) read with Section 758 of the Civil Procedure Code against judgment dated 08/09/1998 in District Court Galle Case No.P/12340.

Deva Sanjeewa Nandalal Parana W atta Boossa

Substituted-Plaintiff-Appellant

Dent Punchi Singho

(Deceased Plaintiff-Appellant)

Vs

1. Edirimuni Indrani de Zoysa of Paranawatta, Boossa.

2. Nikkuwa Handi Jayasena of Paranawatta, Boosa.

3. Merregngna Edwin Mendis, formerly of Kochchiwatta, Boossa and now of

· l'· radhushika", 1st Lane, Hakmana Road Walasmulla.

Dcfendant-Resondents

K.T.CHITP ., qRI, J.

Rohan Sahabandu P C with Hasitha Amarasinghe, Attorney-at-Law for the Substituted-Plaintiff- Appellant.

Sadamal Rajapakse, Attorney-at-Law for the Defendant-Respondents

22nct FEBRUARY 2013

12th MAECH 2013

2

CHITRASIRI, J.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the judgment dated gth September 1998 of

the learned District Judge of Galle. In addition to the said relief, the deceased plaintiff-

appellant (hereinafter referred to :r~ the plaintiff) in his appeal also sought:

(i) that the plaintiff-appellant be declared entitled to an undivided 11/16 shares

and the 1st defendant-respondent to 4/16 shares; or

(ii) that in the alternative the disputed ~ share be left un-allotted, and that the

plaintiff-appellant be dec Jared entitled to 3116 shares and the 1st defendant-

respondent to 4/16 shares.

Looking at the aforesaid r/ J (ii) itsc!C it is cL:-Jr that there had been no dispute

in respect of a Y2 share ofthe Ian,:: ,Htght 1,1 be partiti,>JJcd. Indeed, it is on that basis both

the plaintiff and the 1st defenda1~:-!·cspondent (hereimfter referred to as the I st defendant)

argued the appeal and also filed thc:r written submissions. Learned District Judge decided

to allocate 3116 to the plaintiff. .: ': G to tl1c 1st defc::cbnt and 1116 to the 3rd defendant

totaling it to 8/16 shares out o~" the undisputed ~ share of the corpus as there was no

dispute as to the said Y2 share. Ba!~mce 8/16 or the ~ share of the corpus is the share that

is being claimed both by the pLr! .. rir and the l'l ckL:r;dant. Learned District Judge had

allocated the entirety of the disi < .. -.:d ~~ sbre to the 1 l defendant on the strength of the

deeds marked IDl to ID6.

Accordingly, I will nO\\: . to c< "·:ickr tL· -:~:ms ofthe plaintiff and ofthe 1st

defendant as to the disputed 11. ::m~ oi tilL' bnd. ! :1c plaintiff claims title to the same

through the deeds marked P3, i : :1d P5 \Yhilst the J st defendant's claim rests on the

deeds marked lDl to 1D6. Thi · . :1 ,: :.::two :y .·:namely the plaintiff and the 1st

3

defendant had been the main issue even in the Court below. Almost all the issues also had

been raised before the trial judge in order to determine this issue namely the claim in

respect of the disputed half share of the land.

Learned District Judge has clearly identified the said issue between the plaintiff

and the 1st defendant. (vide page 142 of the brief). He has observed that the 1st

defendant's rights to the disputed 1/2 share had devolved on her by a deed executed in the

year 1962 which refers to a previous deed as well. Having noted so, he has stated that the

rights claimed by the plaintiff had derived from the deed marked P3, executed in the year

1981, which does not show any connection to a prior chain of title of the two vendors to

the said deed P3.(vide page 142 of the brief). Having compared the title referred to in the

respective deeds marked by the two parties, learned District Judge preferred to accept the

title referred to in the deeds of the 1st defendant. His decision is with cogent reasons. He

has considered the evidence as to the possession of the land as well when coming to his

conclusions.

The plaintiff claims rigl1ts by the deed marked P5 to which the rights had accrued

through the deeds P3 and P4. The first deed marked P3 which bears the No.l106 is a

deed executed on the 2"d March 1 9S 1. It had been cc·~:uted on the basis of the possession

of its vendors without having any connection to a previonsly executed deed.

The 1st defendant had cl:::med rights througl~ ~h~ deeds 1V1 to IV6. The rights

found in the deed bearing No. J!'t!77 marked 1 V1 k1d devolved on the 1st defendant by

deed bearing No.5 marked as 1 .·6. The said deed t_ .:aring No.10077 had been executed

4

on the 4th July 1962 and its vendor, Saradial Mendis had transferred his rights that he had

obtained by the deed bearing No.195 executed in the year 1942.

Having compared the two sets of deeds produced by the opposing parties, it is my

view that the rights emanated from the deeds 1 VI to 1 V6 of the 1st defendant should

prevail over the rights derived from the deeds P3 to P5 of the plaintiff since the 1st

defendant could easily claim that his deeds had been executed and registered, much prior

to that of the plaintiffs. Hence, I do not see any wrong in the manner in which the

learned District Judge had evaluated the evidence particularly the deeds marked and

produced by the respective parties, in coming to his findings. In the circumstances, I am

not inclined to interfere with the decision as to the allocation of shares by the learned

District Judge in the impugned judgment dated 8th September 1998.

For the aforesaid reasons, this appeal is dismissed '' ith costs.

Appeal dismissed

JUDCE Ol ,: !-IE COURT OF APPEAL