==== BLOCKS ==== 

---~------------.--~-----~- --.----~.-~-~.~. ,-.-.-,.-~--------~--...

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

1. K.A. Piyadasa

373, Dikhenapura,

Horana.

2. G. Garlis Singho,

373, Dikhenapura,

Horana.

DEFENDANT APPELLANTS

C. A NO. 1194/96(F) D.C. Horana 5306/L

Vs

Before:

Counsel

Argued on:

H. Publis Perera,

Illembakanda,

Horana.

PLAINTIFF - RESPONDENT

General Manager,

Co-operative Society Limited,

No.60, Main Street,

Horana.

3 RD DEFENDANT-RESPONDENT

A.W.A. SALAM, J.

Daya Guruge with L.M. Ariyadasa for the

Defendants-Appellants and Dr. Jayatissa de Costa P.C. with Lahiru N. Silva for the Plain tiff-Responden t.

12.01.2011

Written Submissions tendered on: 14.02.2011.

Decided on: 28.04.2011

1

A W A Salam,J

T

his appeal arises on the Judgment dated 01.07.96 of

the learned District Judge holding inter alia that the

plaintiff is the owner of the subject matter and the 1 st and

2nd defendants are liable to be ejected therefrom.

Admittedly the parents of the 1 st and 2nd defendants had

occupied the house situated on the subject matter as the

employees of the predecessor in title of the plaintiff. The

contesting defendants took up the position that they had

acquired a prescriptive title having possessed a subject

matter for a period of more than 10 years after their

parents had ceased to be the employees of the plaintiffs

predecessor in title. The learned District Judge having

considered the law applicable on the matter held that the

defendants had not acquired any prescriptive title as

claimed by them and directed that the contesting

defendants be ejected as they have not established the

alleged prescriptive rights.

As far as the facts narrated by the defendants are

concerned it is quite clear that their predecessor had

entered into occupation of the house with the leave and

licence of the plaintiffs predecessor and without proving

an overt act the contesting defendants cannot in law

acquire a prescriptive title.

The contesting defendants have also emphasized that the

plaintiff is not entitled to a declaration of title as no such

relief has been prayed for in the plaint. In this respect one

has to be mindful of the principle that once issues are

2

framed the pleadings recede to the back ground. In this

case the 1 st issue raised by the plaintiff is whether the

plaintiff is the owner of the subject matter by virtue of

deed No. 15389. As such the contention of the contesting

defendants as to the plaintiffs right to obtain a declaration

of title appears for me as baseless.

On a reading of the evidence led at the trial and upon

consideration of the basis on which the learned district

judge has arrived at the conclusion I am in no way

satisfied that there has been an error, defect or

irregularity in the impugned judgment.

For reasons stated above, I am of the firm opinion that the

appeal of the contesting defendants merits no favourable

consideration. Hence the judgment of the learned District

Judge under appeal is affirmed and the appeal preferred

by the 1st and the 2nd defendants stands dismissed subject to costs.

~~ ... Judge of the Court of Appeal

NTj-

3