==== BLOCKS ==== 

i

t ! I I I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA(PHC)APN 18/2013

High Court of Chilaw:HC 59/2007

1

In the matter of an application for Revision under Article 138 of the constitution of the democratic socialist republic of Sri Lanka read with Section 404 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act No. 15 of 1979.

Hon. Attorney General.

Colomobo

Vs.

1. Reksi Manoj de Seram 2. N. D. R. Kumara Fernando 3. W.L. Cannycious Fernando 4. T.D. Surath Appuhami

(Accused Persons)

And now Between

Sangarajage Don Cannycious

Joshep Appuhami,

"Sadawasana" ,

Dematapitiya Road,

Katuneriya.

Petitioner.

I

Before : A.W.A. Salam, J. &

Sunil Rajapakshe, J.

Vs.

1. Hon. Attorney General, Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12. 2. Officer-In-Charge, Police Station, Marawila.

Respondents.

T.D.C. Surath Appuhami

(4th Accused Trial in absentia)

Counsel : Tenny Fernando for the Petitioner.

Anoopa de Silva SSC for the Respondent.

Argued on : 05.08.2013

Decided on : 06.09.2013

A.W.A. Salam, J.

The petitioner's grievance in this revision application is that the learned

High Court judge directed the confiscation of all his movable and

immovable properties by reason of the failure of the 4th accused to

appear in court. The impugned order of the learned High Court judge

dated 09th October 2012 which is marked as X4 and annexed to the

revision application along with certain other documents. The petitioner

complains that the 4th accused had never been produced before the

court and the correct approach that should have been adopted by the

learned High Court judge was to hold an inquiry under Section 241 of

2

l

the Criminal Procedure Code before she proceeded to enter an order of

confiscation. In the circumstances, he urges that the impugned order of

the learned High Court judge has resulted in a serious miscarriage of

Justice. For the purpose of ready reference Section 241 of the Criminal

Procedure Code is reproduced below.

The 4th accused who was charged with having committed the offence

under Section 296 of the Penal Code was absent for sometime and the

learned High Court judge main order on 29th May 2012 to lead evidence

with regard to the 1 st accused. When the matter was mentioned on 29th

June 2012 the learned High Court judge released one of the witnesses

on bail and fixed the matter for trial on 9th October 2012. On 9th

October 2012 when the matter was mentioned in court it had been

brought to the notice of the court that the death of the 1 st defendant

and thereafter the learned High Court judge without holding any

inquiry as contemplated under Section 422 of the Criminal Procedure

Code made an order that the movable and immovable properties of the

4th accused be confiscated. This revision application has been made by

the father of the 4th accused to have the said order of confiscation set

aside.

In the instant case the learned High Court judge has completely ignored

the requirements that have to be met under Section 421 of the Code of

Criminal Procedure and confiscated the movable and immovable

properties of the 4th accused in an arbitrary manner without affording

any opportunity to the 4th accused or his sureties to show cause against

3

I

I i

1

J

an order of confiscation. The learned senior State Counsel has filed no

objection against the application and she conceded that the proper

procedure has not been followed before entering the order of

confiscation.

For purpose of ready reference section 422 ( 1) Code of Criminal

Procedure leaving out the unnecessary words are reproduced below ....

Whenever it is proved to the satisfaction of the court by which a bond

under this code has been taken or when the bond is for appearance

before a court to the satisfaction of such court that such bond has been

forfeited, the court shall record the grounds of such proof and may call

upon any person bound by such bond, to pay the penalty thereof or to

show cause why it should not be paid.

Subsection 2 to section 422 lays down what consequences to be

followed in the event of the person making the default in paying the

penalty. In terms of this subsection, if the penalty is not paid the court

may proceed to recover the same by issuing a warrant for the

attachment and sale of movable or immovable property belonging to

such person.

In the instant case the learned and High Court judge has failed to call

upon the accused or to ascertain by herself as to what made the

accused keep away from court. Without first ascertaining as to whether

the accused had any reasonable grounds to keep away from court, the

High Court Judge was not empowered in law to forfeit the bond and

then proceed to confiscate the movable and immovable properties

4

I

I

,

I

tl I

r

belonging to the accused. This order of the learned and High Court

Judge is contrary to the express provisions of the law and the rules of

natural Justice.

In the circumstances, I am of the opinion that the impugned order of

the learned High Court judge cannot be allowed to stand and should

necessarily be set aside. Hence, the order confiscating the movable and

immovable properties of the 4th accused is set aside. This order is no

bar to the court entering an order of confiscation or to forfeit the bond

resulting from the non-appearance of the 4th accused if proper

procedure is followed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

Sunil Rajapakshe, J

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

NRj-

5

II