==== BLOCKS ==== 

i I

1 1 j

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL

OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 611/98(F} D.C. Case No. 5934/L

Abeygunawardana Liyanarachchige Dinadasa,

Defendant-Appellant

Vs.

Kulawathi Jayasinghe,

Plaintiff-Respondent

BEFORE K.T. CHITRASIRI, J.

COUNSEL Rohan Sahabandu, P.e. with M. Jayaratne for the

Defendant-Appellant

Milhan Ikram Mohamed for the Plaintiff-Respondent

Argued &

Decided on 28.11.2013

K. T. CHITRASIRI, J.

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases. This is

an appeal seeking inter alia to set aside the judgment delivered on

13.08.1998 of the learned District Judge of Matara. By this appeal,

Defendant-Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the defendant) also

sought to have the reliefs prayed for in his answer filed in the

district court in addition to have the judgment set aside.

1

I

t1

II

j I 1 I I j I

The plaintiff-respondent (hereinafter referred to as the plaintiffj

filed this action seeking for a declaration declaring that she is the

owner of lots 3, 4 and 5 referred to in the plan bearing No. 3016

marked as X in evidence and to have the defendant evicted

therefrom. The plaintiff also has sought to have damages as averred

in paragraph 11 of the amended plaint dated 06.08.1985.

In the answer, whilst seeking to dismiss the action of the

plaintiff, the defendant claimed prescriptive title to the aforesaid lots

3, 4 and 5. Issues of the respective parties were framed to fall in line

with those pleadings and then the case proceeded accordingly.

Thereafter, learned district judge decided the case in favour of the

plaintiff having rejected the prescriptive claim of the defendant.

Learned district judge concluded that the plaintiff

became entitled to the aforesaid lots 3, 4 and 5 referred to in the

plan marked X, by virtue of the final decree entered in the

partition action P/794 and by the deed bearing NO.2481 marked P4.

The said decision that was arrived at relying upon the aforesaid final

decree and the deed has not been challenged by the defendant either

III this Court or III the Court below. Therefore, it is correct in

answering the first issue of the plaintiff affirmatively having decided that

the title of the land in question is with the plaintiff.

2

i

1II !

jI

I I

Then it is necessary to consider whether the learned

District Judge is correct or not in rejecting the prescriptive claim of

the defendant. To claim prescriptive rights, it is the burden of the

defendant to establish undisturbed and uninterrupted possession to the I

land he claims for a period of ten years previous to the filing of the

action. [Section 3 of the Prescription Ordinance] Before venturing into I

f identity of the land to which the defendant claims prescriptive rights.

the prescriptive claim of the defendant, it is necessary to determine the

Pursuant to filing of this action, the plaintiff has moved Court to

issue a commission in order to obtain a clear picture as to the identity of

the premises in suit. Accordingly, the plan bearing No. 3016 was

prepared and filed by N.G.E.Dias, Licensed Surveyor. [vide J.E.9 dated

04.07. 1985/ page 25 of the appeal brief] It was produced in evidence

marked as X. [vide page 101 in the appeal brief] Consequently, the

parties have accepted that the land in suit comprises Lots 3, 4, and 5 of

the aforesaid plan marked X and therefore the identity of the corpus was

not in issue even in the Court below. Furthermore, it is also accepted

that the land to the north of those 3 lots which is marked as lot 2 in the

plan X belongs to the plaintiff whilst the land to the south of those 3 lots

which is given the marking B4 belongs to the defendant.

The defendant took up the position that he possessed lots 3, 4 and

5 together with the land marked Lot B4. In support of this contention,

3

learned President's Counsel for the defendant referred to the fence found

between the lot 2 which is under the control of the plaintiff and the land

consisting of lots 3, 4 and 5. Accordingly, he contended that the

defendant had been in possession of lots 3, 4 and 5 together with lot B4

as one separate land of which the northern boundary is shown as the

fence referred to above. Similar stand had been taken up by the

defendant in the original Court as well. This point was carefully looked

at by the learned District Judge and his observations in this regard read

thus:

"®a3~(i(foz CJco ®~O))(ics.f o)clSc q~D qotD 2 O~ 3, 4, 5 tDziil@

qO)o g (iO)~ ®)<S® q90~ 4 So 5 (clD) DCozO) oz@ ~a3 DzDtD. (i®®

Dz(iC) Dco 8@"(D EjojO)tDOz o~ EjojO)tDOz(ics.f o)cl~tD)o G200(lO (iDa)oj

tD@ Dz(iC) Dco 8@"( EjojO)(id oO)Doc o®iilo o)clS S(C»)~O)c q~D

8@mz~®D (ia))~ztD. (i®® 05000cD ~6oo®D ~~ ~~ (i~~~ o®~ocl (i®(ioc.

(I)

4

\ I

f

1 I I

E)(90 G~aai' ®oai'E)) lfzO) ::Il®@ O~ oz(9 ~&; E)zo ~6)®o!i>::IlO

~)ofoSai' ®E)o!i>dCl.

ozO~ o!i>za>·"

[vide proceedings at page 207 in the appeal brief]

The above reasoning of the learned District Judge shows that he

was mindful of:

)r the age of the fence;

)r the discrepancies of the boundary between the three lots and

the land possessed by the plain tiff;

)r the fact that the subject matter was a bear land without a

proper plantation and particularly;

)r the evidence of the surveyor.

Hence, it is clear that the trial judge has evaluated the evidence, in

connection with the fence referred to above very correctly when he

decided on the issue of possession claimed by the defendant to the land

in dispute. Then only he has decided to reject the claim of the defendant

as to the possession of lots 3, 4 and 5.

5

The defendant also seems to have heavily relied upon the

documents marked VI to V7 to establish his claim of prescription.

Having considered the evidence in connection with those documents,

learned District Judge has concluded that those documents have been

issued in relation to lot B4 referred to in the plan marked X to which

the plaintiff does not make any claim. He has further held that those

documents do not become relevant to the particular portions of the

land in dispute namely lots 3,4 and 5.

In coming to the said decision, learned District Judge has

considered the evidence of the surveyor and the evidence of

Kalugamage Gunadasa and also the evidence of an officer from the

Tea Small Holdings. Upon evaluating the evidence of those witnesses,

learned trial judge, once again has found that those documents marked

by the defendant are in respect of the aforesaid Lot B4 and not to the

land comprising of 3 lots which are subjected to in this case.

At this stage it must be noted that this Court also IS not in a

position to look at those documents since those have not been tendered

to Court after the conclusion of the trial. Plaintiff is unable to have those

documents available for perusal even at this appeal stage.

Learned district judge, without looking at those documents

due to its non-availability, has considered the oral evidence adduced in

connection with those documents since those are marked documents in

6

evidence and has held that those documents do not relate to the

disputed lots namely lots 3, 4 and 5 in the plan marked X. In

addition to those findings learned District Judge has also given

other reasons as to why he rejected the claim of prescription

made by the defendant. Those reasons are found at pages 203,204

and 205 in the appeal briefs.

The aforesaid reasons of the learned district judge

shows that he has carefully considered the claim of prescription

having addressed his mind to the requirements referred to in Section 3 of

the Prescription Ordinance. In doing so, he has even looked at the age of

the plantation found on the disputed lots 3, 4 and 5 when he decided to

I do not see any error in his findings and in the reasons assigned

reject the claim of prescription of the defendant.

thereto. Accordingly, I am not inclined to interfere with the decision of

the learned District Judge. For the aforesaid reasons, this appeal is

dismissed with costs fixed at Rs.50,000/=.

Appeal dismissed fI f r i JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

i

AKN II iI 7 f