==== BLOCKS ==== 

t I

..

1 <' ,

I ~ I ! I I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

C.A. (Writ) Application No. 139/2012

Arbitration Case No. A/2832

SRI LANKA

In the matter of an Application in terms of

Article 140 of the Constitution for mandates

in the nature of Writs of Certiorari and

Mandamus.

N.L.O. Ariyaratne,

No. 21/3, 2

nd Lane,

Galpotte Road,

Nawala.

Petitioner

-Vs-

1. P.B.P.K. Weerasinghe,

The Commissioner of Labour,

La bou r Secreta riat,

P.O. Box 575,

Kirula Road, Narahenpita,

Colombo 05.

1

• 2. ~

3.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

D.A. Wijewardena,

Arbitrator,

Labour Secretariat,

P.O. Box 575,

Kirula Road, Narahenpita,

Colombo 5.

Kahawatte Plantations Ltd.,

No. 52,

Maligawatte Road,

Colombo 10.

Respondents

Vijith K. Malalgoda P.C. (P/CJ)

A.H.M.D. Nawaz, J.

V.K. Choksy for the Petitioner

Chaya Sri Nammuni, S.c. for the 1st

Respondent

Dhanushka Dissanayake for the 3rd

Respondent

2

I I l

1 I

maintainability of this application for judicial review and written submissions have

been tendered expatiating on the preliminary objections

For purposes of fully comprehending the scope of the preliminary objections raised

on behalf of the 3rd Respondent and 1st Respondent, the factual matrix surrounding

the basis of this application for judicial review in terms of Article 140 of the

Constitution repays attention.

Factual Matrix

On a reference made by the then Minister of Labour under Section 4 (1) of the

Industrial Disputes Act as amended, the industrial dispute between the Ceylon

Planter's Society who represented the Petitioner and Kahawattha Plantations Ltd -

the 3rd Respondent was referred to the 2nd Respondent Arbitrator for settlement by

arbitration. The learned State Counsel who appears for the 1st Respondent has

made available to this Court copies of Gazette notifications bearing number

1165/28 dated 05/01/2001 and No. 1730/16 dated 03/11/2011. Whilst the Gazette

notification bearing No. 1165/28 dated 05/01/2001 contains a copy of the original

reference by the Minister to the 2nr Respondent arbitrator along with the

Statement of Matters in Dispute, the other Gazette notification bearing No.

1730/16 dated 03/11/2011 carries the publication of an award dated 22.09.2011. In

fact this publication of the award of the arbitrator dated 22.09.2011 has been made

by the then Commissioner of Labour in compliance with the provisions of Section

18 (1) of the Industrial Disputes Act as amended. Since none of the parties to the

industrial dispute had appended to their pleadings copies of both the reference and

the publication of the award, this court, ex abuntanticautelal directed the State

4

Counsel to make these two documents available to this court so that we could have

the benefit of perusing them in the course of our deliberations on the preliminary

objections.

It has to be observed though that the petitioner has appended to his petition the all

important document tlPS"-a copy of the proceedings dated 19.07.2011 which

contains the decision of the 2nd Respondent Arbitrator terminating further

proceedings of the arbitration under reference on account of the absence of the

petitioner on that particular day. It is this decision dated 19.07.2011 that is being

sought to be quashed by way of a writ of certiorari. This decision is the precursor to

what the Commissioner of Labour published in the end as an award in Gazette

Notification bearing No 1730/16 dated 03/11/2011.

In fact the prayer of the Petitioner at (a) seeks a mandate in the nature of a Writ of

Certiorari to quash the decision and / or Award of the 2nd Respondent Arbitrator

dated 19.7.2011 contained in P1S (sic). As I have observed, the award which is

limited to an order of dismissal of the petitioner's application before the arbitrator

does not embody a decision on the industrial dispute that was referred to him.

The last two paragraphs of tipS" make it crystal clear that the second respondent

arbitrator was terminating further proceedings under reference for lack of due

diligence on the part of the petitioner to prosecute the application and that he was

making a decision not to make an award under the circumstances (sic).

The 2

nd Respondent arbitrator had also directed the Registrar of the office of the

Arbitrator to transmit a copy of his order to the petitioner which has found its way

into these proceedings as PS.

5

I

,

tJ

it

However I observe that what was finally published in the Gazette bearing No

1730/16 dated 03/11/2011 as an award contains an expanded version of PS dated

19.07.2011. In fact the decision PS which was delivered by the arbitrator on

19.07.2011, when it was published as an award on 03.11.2011, contains further

observations of the arbitrator.

Though the 2

nd Respondent Arbitrator decided quite specifically on 19.07.2011

that he was not proceeding to make an award on the substantive dispute before

him but was only terminating further proceedings of the arbitration under

reference, which he attributed to want of due diligence on the part of the

Petitioner, the fact remains that the improved version of PS setting out his reasons

as to why he was not proceeding to make an award but rather was terminating the

reference did finally find its way as an award in the Gazette notification bearing No.

1730/16 dated 03/11/2011and certainly at this stage this Court would not go into

the propriety of the Commissioner of Labour treating it as an award as he has to

cause the publication of an award upon receipt in terms of section 18 of the

Industrial Disputes Act. But as I have stated before, this award (sic) specifically

declares itself to be a termination of further proceedings under reference but it

doesn't amount to a decision on the evidence that has already been led before the

arbitrator.

The decision to terminate the arbitration proceedings and not to proceed to make

an award, which is being challenged before this Court as irrational and ultra vires

has, according to the petitioner, resulted in misdirection of fact and law and the

Petitioner also relies on grounds such as taking into account irrelevant

considerations which, if established, would go to vitiate the decision made by the

2nd Respondent arbitrator on 19.07.2011.

6

!t

II

I!

I

Both the 3rd Respondent Kahawatte Plantations Ltd and the 1st Respondent

Commissioner of Labour have filed their statement of objections resisting this

application and pleading in bar of further proceedings before us certain preliminary

objections which have been expanded upon in their respective written submissions.

Preliminary Objections

The State Counsel who appears for 1stRespondent Commissioner of Labour has

concurred with the 3rd Respondent on the preliminary objections. Before I proceed

to set down the decisions on the preliminary objections, let me crystallize them in a

nutshell. The objections some of which are often described as discretionary bars

are as follows:-

1) Suppression and misrepresentation of facts;

2) Non-suiting of the Minister of Labour is fatal to the application as he

becomes a necessary party by virtue of the fact that it is the Minister who is

vested with the statutory discretion to refer an industrial disputes for

compulsory arbitration;

3) laches;

4) the remedy has not been sought by the proper party/non-observance of the

Supreme Court rules;

Suppression of Material Facts or Absence of Uberrimae fides

It is useful at this stage to refer to the course of the proceedings before the

arbitrator in order to understand this ground of bar that is being urged by the 3rd

Respondent Employer. The averments pertaining to this ground as stated in the

7

I!,

~ ! 1iIt

l-

ti I

«

statement of objection of the 3

rd respondent employer is that the trade union

which represented the petitioner and the petitioner had been warned on several

occasions concerning their erratic attendance or participation in the proceedings

before the arbitrator and the failure on the part of the petitioner to annex a copy of

the case record of the proceedings that manifested want of due diligence is

intentional and deliberate. The proceedings of 17.06.2009, 28.08.2009, 10.03.2010,

19.04.2010, 29.06.2010, 27.08.2010, 02. 11.2010, 06.01.2011 and 19.07.2011 are

cited as instances when neither the trade union nor the petitioner had been ready

to prosecute their case and the third respondent alleges that it was in those

circumstances that the arbitrator came to make the order as he did on 19.07. 2011

terminating further proceedings in the matter. This, according to the third

respondent, would amount to suppression of material facts.

Further, paragraphs 44, 45 and 46 of the petition and their corresponding

averments in the affidavit of the petitioner are sought to be contradicted by police

statements made by both the petitioner and the registrar of the office of the

arbitrator. The attempt on the part of the 3rd respondent is to show that the so-

called contradiction manifests "unclean hands" which should automatically

disentitle the petitioner to seek the main remedies-namely writs of certiorari and

mandamus.

The crux of paragraphs 44, 45 and 46 of the petition along with their corresponding

averments in the affidavit is that is that when the petitioner went for the

arbitration on 04.07.2011, the registrar had informed him that as the 2

nd

Respondent arbitrator was having a personal difficulty the arbitration would be

postponed and the parties would be notified of the next date after the arbitrator

was consulted. According to the petitioner, no such notification of the next date

8

if

rII

• was communicated to him and as he went to check on the next date of hearing, he

came to know that the arbitration had been taken up on that fateful day

19.07.2011 and terminated for his want of due diligence. The petitioner admits the

receipt of the order of the arbitrator dated 19.07.2011 that has been produced as

PS referred to above.

The petitioner also alleges that there was no written notification of the next date

which fact has been confirmed in writing by the post master relevant to his area

and the notation of the postmaster of Rajagiriya to this effect has been briefed to

this Court in a document marked P6.

The petitioner avers that he made a complaint to Rajagiriya Police who recorded in

the course of their investigations a statement from the registrar of the arbitrator's

office who confirmed that she had not sent a written communication of the next

date namely 19.07.2011. The statements made to police of both the petitioner and

the registrar of the office of the arbitrator have been appended to the petition as

P7 and P7(a).

The explanation of the Petitioner for his failure to be present before the arbitrator

on 19.07.2011 that his absence was due to non-communication of the date by the

Registrar has been sought to be contradicted by his police statement and the

statement made by the Registrar. It boils down to a case of evaluating the

averments in the petition vis-a-vis the petitioner's police statement and the

statement made by the registrar. The petition and affidavit aver that the petitioner

could not attend the arbitration on 19.07.2011 because the date was not notified

to him in writing. He has maintained this position in his police statement. The 3rd

Respondent seeks to contradict him with a portion of his police statement (P7)

which is as follows:-

9

I

II

liAs the arbitrator was indisposed he would not be present on 4th July

2011. The Respondent had given 19th July 2011 as a convenient date for

them."

I do not subscribe to the view that this police statement renders the petitioner

unworthy of credit. This would only mean that the petitioner knew that 19 July

2011 was a convenient date for the respondent. Was it a convenient date for the

arbitrator? In fact it is incumbent on the registrar to consult the arbitrator as to

whether he would be available on 19th July 2015 and it was only thereafter that the

registrar could fix this date as a date of inquiry and this date has to be

communicated to both the petitioner and respondent. It is my respectful view that

this portion of the police statement made by the petitioner does not advance the

case of suppression of material facts urged by the third respondent within the

parameters adverted to by the oft quoted dictum of Pathirana J in Alphonso

Appuhamy v Hetfiarachchi 77 NLR 131 at 135 which is worthy of recapitulation-

liThe necessity of a full and fair disclosure of all the material facts to be

placed before the Court when, an application for a writ or injunction, is made

and the process of the Court is invoked is laid down in the case of the King v.

The General Commissioner for the Purpose of the Income Tax Acts for the

District of Kensington-Ex-Parte Princess Edmorbd de Poigns. Although this

case deals with a writ of prohibiting the principles enunciated are applicable

to all cases of writs or injunctions. In this case a Divisional Court without

dealing with the merits of the case discharged the rule on the ground that

the applicant had suppressed or misrepresented the facts material to her

application. The Court of Appeal affirmed the decision of the Divisional Court

that there had been a suppression of material facts by the applicant in her

10 fI

affidavit and therefore it was justified in refusing a writ of prohibition

without going into the merits of the case. In other words, so rigorous is the

necessity for a full and truthful disclosure of all material facts that the Court

would not go into the merits of the application, but will dismiss it without

further examination."

This principle has been followed consistently by our courts including in the cases of

Hulangamuwa v Siriwardena [(1986) 1 SLR 275], Collettes Ltd., v Commissioner of

Labour [(1989) 2 SLR 6], Laub v Attorney Genera/[(1995) 2 SLR 88], Blanca

Diamonds (Pvt) Ltd., v Wilfred Van Els [(1997) 1 SLR 360], Jayasinghe v The National

Institute of Fisheries [(2002) 1 SLR 277] and Lt. Commander Ruwan Pathirana v

Commodore Dharmasiriwardene and Others [(2007) 1 SLR 24].

Has the allegation that the petitioner knew of the next date namely 19.07.2011

been established before us? If so, does it fall within the criteria laid down by the

long line of precedents cited above?

I have shown that the statement made to police by the petitioner to the effect-

"As the arbitrator was indisposed he would not be present on 4th July

2011. The Respondent had given 19th July 2011 as a convenient date for

them."

does not advance the case of falsity against the Petitioner. This only shows that the

Petitioner was aware that the date 19th July 2011 was a convenient date for the

Respondent. Was this date fixed finally as the next date for further proceedings

after consultation with the arbitrator? Was this date notified to the petitioner? The

pleadings and the written submissions leave room for doubt on these issues.

11

The 3rd Respondent also adverts to a portion of the statement made by the

registrar of the arbitrator's office to the effect-

lithe previous date was 4.07.2011. On that day the applicant N.L.D.

Ariyaratne submitted a motion and I informed him of the next date. #

This assertion is somewhat repeated by the Registrar before the Arbitrator on that

fateful day-19.07.2011 when the arbitrator terminated proceedings. According to

PS, the Arbitrator records that the Registrar went on record stating that the

petitioner informed her that the date 19.07.2011 was convenient to him and the

inference sought to be made out there from is that the petitioner knew of the

next date-please vide proceedings dated 19.07.2011 reflected in PS.

In my view this fact does not advance the allegation of suppression of material facts

or lack of uberrimae fides against the petitioner. If the petitioner, as the Registrar

states, submitted a motion moving for a date and she informed him of the next

date, the question arises where that motion is. Certainly it must be in the case

record or proceedings and this Court does not have the benefit of having seen the

motion as it has not been briefed to us.

In our view the hearsay police statement of the Registrar remains unsubstantiated

before us and for this reason I take the view that the allegation of lack of uberrimae

fides has not been established before us.

Moreover the registrar does not state that she consulted the arbitrator on

04.07.2011 or thereafter and it was the arbitrator who fixed the next date. The

version of the petitioner that the registrar told him that the date 19.07.2011 was

only convenient to the respondents has not been contradicted by the registrar in

12

I

fI

her police statement either. On this score there is no sufficient material to taint the

Petitioner with falsity.

The other allegation that the Petitioner never brought to the notice of this Court

that he had been "p/aying truant" on several dates of the arbitration does not

become probative of establishing "unclean hands" as P5 which has been appended

to the petition displays the erratic absence of the petitioner on several dates of

inquiry and this Court is possessed of that fact.

In the circumstances I see no merit in the contention of the 3rd Respondent that the

Petitioner lacks uberrimae fides and thus this court overrules the preliminary

objection raised on this discretionary bar.

Non-suiting of the Minister

It is beyond doubt that it was the Minister who referred the matter to the 2nd

Respondent arbitrator-please vide the Gazette notification bearing No. 1165/28

dated 05.01.2001 which contains a copy of the original reference by the Minister to

the 2

nr Respondent arbitrator along with the Statement of Matters in Dispute. It is

based on this reference that the arbitrator received the mandate to begin the

arbitration.

In the written submissions filed on behalf of the 1st and 3rd Respondents, it has

been contended that that the failure to name the Minister of Labour as a

necessary party is a fatal regularity that would render this application liable to be

dismissed in limine.

There is a long line of precedents that it is open to a party to show that what was

referred was not an industrial dispute within the meaning of the Act and challenge

the jurisdiction of the tribunal on the basis that there was no industrial dispute or

13

the reference by divesting the Arbitrator of his authority except for certain specified

reasons.

I have to observe that the decision in Nadaraja's case was subsequently cited with

approval and followed by the Court of Appeal in Piyadasa v Bata Shoe Co Ltd

(1982) 1 SrLlR 91.

Nadaraja's case also survived a constitutional challenge in Walker Sons & Co (UK)

Ltd v Gunatilleke (1985) 1 BlR 208, where a Divisional Bench of the Supreme Court

held that it remained good law notwithstanding that it was decided by the Supreme

Court established under the 1st Republican Constitution of 1972, and that it was

binding on all subordinate Courts including the Court of Appeal under the 1978

Constitution.

I have to observe that though the Minister has no power to revoke the reference,

exceptional situations may arise and consequently irrevocability of the reference is

subject to exceptions as recognized by Sharvananda J (as he then was) in Nadaraja

Ltd.1 v Krishnadasan (supra) at p 259.

"If the first arbitrator declines resigns, dies or becomes incapable of

performing his functions, or leaves Sri lanka under circumstances

showing that he will probably not return at an early date. Strictly

speaking in such an event there is no occasion to withdraw or supersede

any reference from the first arbitrator; the first Arbitrator has ceased to

function and there is a frustration of reference, and so there is in

existence no Arbitrator who could act in such reference".

These exceptional situations were cited with approval by Wanasundera J in

Equipment and Construction Co. Ltd.1 v Ranasinghe (1985) 1 Sr. lR 82, 85. There is

16

..

nothing in the petition alleging these exceptional situations. Even if these situations

exist, what is sought to be quashed before us is the order PS made by the

arbitrator. No relief is sought against the Minister to make a reference a second

time and exceptional situations alluded to by Sharvananda J (as he then was) have

not been averred assuming that they exist. In the absence of express assertions in

the petition that bring out the existence of exceptional situations and having regard

to the fact that no mandamus is sought against the Minister to make a second

reference because his first reference has become frustrated, I hold that the

Minister is not a necessary party in those circumstances and the preliminary

objection premised on non-suiting of the Minister in the petition must necessarily

fail

What is now left of the preliminary objections pertains to laches, non-observance

of Supreme Court rules and the status of the petitioner to apply for judicial review.

Laches

The impugned order (PS) has been made on 19.07.2011. The application for judicial

review has been filed on 21st May 2012. As has been pointed out by the 3rd

Respondent, the delay has been explained only in the written submissions of the

Petitioner-namely the delay has been occasioned by the time spent on obtaining

necessary documentation from the labour department. The long delay, albeit

indicative of lack of due diligence, has not been per se a ground for rejection of

applications for judicial review.

There are dicta to the effect that where the Court has examined the record and is

satisfied that the Order complained of is manifestly erroneous or without

jurisdiction the Court should be loathe to allow the mischief of the Order to

17

II' !

~ r ir, t i i , ,r If f !I

continue and reject the application simply on the ground of delay, unless there are

very extraordinary reasons to justify such rejection. Where the authority concerned

has been acting altogether without jurisdiction, the Court may grant relief in spite

of the delay unless the conduct of the party shows that he has approbated the

usurpation of jurisdiction-vide the judgment of Sharvananda J as he then was in

Biso Menika v Cyril De Alwis (1982) 1 SrLLR 368, 379. It has to be remembered that

the petition is chockfull of averments alleging errors of jurisdiction. Unless this

Court goes into these grounds of challenge where in a case of compulsory

arbitration the arbitrator has terminated proceedings despite having taken

evidence previously, it will work injustice to a Petitioner if this Court rejects the

petition on the ground of inordinate delay. As the Supreme Court observed in

V.Ramasamy v Ceylon Mortgage Bank (1976) 78 NLR 510, the validity of a plea of

delay must be tried on principles which are substantially of an equitable nature,

and the principles of laches must be tried "carefully and discriminatingly, and not

automatically and as a mere mechanical device (per Wanasundera, J at p517).

Equity must temper the plea of laches and there is no doubt that in all the

circumstances of this case, equitable considerations do favor the petitioner. In the

premise we are disinclined to reject the petition at this stage on the ground of

laches.

Proper Petitioner is not before Court/infringement of SC rules

The fact that only the petitioner has come before this Court without joining the

Trade Union which represented him at the arbitration, cannot be held against the

Petitioner. Section 47 of the Industrial Disputes Act as amended provides that the

word "workman" includes a trade union consisting of workmen. This is quite

indicative of the fact that a workman enjoys locus standi to vindicate his rights not

18

( :

C

only under the Industrial Disputes Act but also in proceedings under Article 140 of

the constitution. A trade union need not be an indispensable adjunct at all times.

The petitioner who is aggrieved by the order PS can have and maintain this

application without being hamstrung by any issues of locus standi.

The objections premised on non-observance of Supreme Court rules pertain to the

absence of the reference and certified copies that should have been appended to

the petition. I have already pinpointed that the reference is not impugned in these

proceedings. In the circumstances we need not call in question the absence of the

reference at this stage and reject the application for judicial review.

I hold that the above is dispositive of the preliminary objections raised in these

proceedings and we are of the view that the substantive merits of this application

for judicial review must be gone into at a hearing and we would accordingly

proceed to fix this matter for argument.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Vijith K. Malalgoda P.C. (PCJ)

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

19