==== BLOCKS ==== 

•

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 1147 /93 F

D.C. Kandy No. 11674 / Partition

Tennakoon Mudiyanselage Lalitha Kumari Ratnayake, Udalumada, Kohoka Korale, Uda Hewaheta.

Plaintiff

Vs.

1. Nandawathie Dissanayake, "Daya Medura" Damunumeeya, Hanguranketa. 2. Ranjanee Dissanayake, "Daya Medura" Damunumeeya, Hanguranketa. 3. Sujatha Dissanayake, "Sisilasa Niwasa" Badupola, Ginigathhena. 4. Nimala Dissanayake, "Daya Medura" Damunumeeya, Hanguranketa.

Defendants

AND NOW BETWEEN

Tennakoon Mudiyanselage Lalitha Kumari Ratnayake, Udalumada, Kohoka Korale, Uda Hewaheta.

Plaintiff Appellant Vs

1

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

2

1. Nandawathie Dissanayake, "Daya Medura" Damunumeeya, Hanguranketa. 2. Ranjanee Dissanayake, "Daya Medura" Damunumeeya, Hanguranketa. 3. Sujatha Dissanayake, "Sisilasa Niwasa" Badupola, Ginigathhena. 4. Nimala Dissanayake, "Daya Medura" Damunumeeya, Hanguranketa.

Defendant Respondents

UPALY ABEYRATHNE J.

Miss. Chandrika Morawaka for the Plaintiff

Appellant

Lasitha Chaminda for the Defendant Respondents

17.10.2011

15.12.2011

The Plaintiff Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant)

instituted the said action against the Defendant Respondents (hereinafter referred

to as the Respondents) in the District Court of Kandy seeking to partition the land

described in the schedule to the plaint. The Respondents by their amended

statement of claim prayed inter alia for a dismissal of the Appellant's action. After

trial the learned Additional District Judge dismissed the Appellant's action with

3

costs. Being aggrieved by the said judgement dated 31.08.1992 the Appellant has

preferred the instant appeal to this court.

At the hearing of this appeal the Respondents contended that the

Appellant had failed to identify the corpus. I have carefully examined the evidence

of the Appellant and the Surveyor who prepared the preliminary plan. The

surveyor in his evidence has admitted that the northern, eastern and western

boundaries did not tally with the boundaries of the land described in the schedule

to the commission.

The Respondents further contended that necessary parties were not

before court. According to the pedigree of the Appellant a deed of partition had

been executed among three children namely Koinmenika, Dingirimenika and Tikiri

menike. Accordingly Koinmenika became entitled to 1/3 share of the property

described in the said deed of partition. The Appellant in his evidence at page 97 of

the brief has admitted that said Koinmenika had 04 children. But the Appellant in

her pedigree has failed to show the said 04 children. She had made only 03

children parties to the present action. Hence, on this reason itself the Appellant's

action should fail.

In the said circumstances I find no reason to interfere with the said

judgement of the learned Additional District Judge dated 31.08.1992. Therefore I

dismiss the instant appeal of the Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal