==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 760/2008 (Writ)

Onril (Pvt.) Limited,

Divulapitiya Road,

Dissagewatte, Katana.

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. The Director General of Customs

Department of Customs,

Times Building, Colombo 1.

2. Coconut Development Authority

54, Nawala Road,

Narahenpita, Colombo 5.

3. D. J. U. Purajasinghe

Chairman,

Coconut Development Authority,

54, Nawala Road, Colombo 5.

3A. Keerthi Weerasinghe

Chairman

Coconut Development Authority,

54, Nawala Road, Colombo 5.

3B. Sugath Handunge,

Chairman

Coconut Development Authority,

54, Nawala Road, Colombo 5.

4. Board of Investment of Sri Lanka

West Tower, World Trade Centre,

Echelon Square, Colombo 1.

1

'

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

H. N. J. Perera

5. Dammika Perera

Chairman/Director General

Board of Investment of Sri Lanka

West Tower, World Trade Centre,

Echelon Square, Colombo 1.

SA. M. M. C. Ferdinando,

Chairman/Director General

Board of Investment of Sri Lanka

West Tower, World Trade Centre,

Echelon Square, Colombo 1.

6. M. Ravindra Kumara

Chief Exports Officer

Department of Customs

Sri Lanka Customs, Colombo 1.

7. S. luckman

Assistant Controller

BIO Diversity Division

Department of Customs,

Sri Lanka Customs, Colombo 1. 8. Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's DepartmenSt,

Colombo 12.

RESPONDENTS

Romesh de Silva P.C., with Sudath Caldera for the Petitioner

Janak de Silva D.S.G. for l 5t, 6th, ih and 8th Respondents

Palitha Kumarasinghe P.C. with Priyantha Alagiyawanna, Ananada

Ranawaka for the 2"d and 3rd Respondents

2

3

ARGUEDON: 20.03.2013

DECIDED ON: 24.07.2013

GOONERATNE J.

Petitioner was registered as a BOI company. Copy of the agreement

is produced marked P2. The main line of business of the Petitioner Company is

manufacturing coir based products as described in paragraph 4 of the Petition,

and exported to European Countries and the Middle East. lt is stated that coir

yarn is an essential item for its business and due to short supply and unavailability

of coir yarn in the local market it was necessary to import same with the approval

of the 4th & 2nd Respondents. Petitioner states with the approval, imported coir

yarn from India. In paragraphs 19/20 of the petition it is pleaded that prior to

granting approval the Petitioner Company had imported a certain quantity of coir

yarn, and the said paragraph make reference to discussion with 2nd & 4th

Respondents.

In the course of the hearing it was stressed by learned President's

Counsel for the Petitioner Company that the 4th Respondent {BOI) authorized the

Petitioner Company to import coir on a duty free basis, and 'CUSDEC' declaration

4

PS had been produced. The case of the Petitioner is that the Company had no

problem and had imported coir yarn until the importation of the last consignment

of coir yarn, suddenly the customs officers had visited the Petitioner's warehouse

and had sealed the premises. The Petitioner relies on the following factual

ci rcu msta nces.

(a) Goods imported were coir yarn

(b) BOI approved the 'CUSDEC' and consequently coir yarn imported.

(c) Coir yarn cleared through customs from the port and kept in the warehouse

of the Petitioner Company.

The Customs Department wants to initiate an inquiry to ascertain whether

the goods imported violates the provision of the Plant Protection Act. Petitioner

argues it has no power to do so.

In fact this seems to be the issue to be decided in this Writ

Application. The position of the Petitioner Company in brief is that the company

has got the necessary approval from the BOI. As such the role of the Customs

Department is limited to ascertain only whether the goods imported conform to

the goods described in the 'CUSDEC'. In any event the Customs Department has

no power to inquire to a question of contravention of the Plant Protection Act. A

stay order has been issued by this court and same has been extended from Ume

5

to time and had been extended till the date of delivery of judgment. The

Petitioner also impress that all documentation including approvals for

importation has to be processed by the BOI. The learned President's Counsel for

the Petitioner has cited two important cases to prove the Petitioner's point of

view. I had the benefit of perusing same.

In the judgment of, Ceylon Quartz Industries (Private) Limited Vs.

Director General of Customs S.C 79/2002, I have noted the gist of the judgment

which could be incorporated as follows. The two questions on which leave was

granted in the above case, are:

1. Can the Customs interpret the nature of the goods that can be expvrted

under and in terms of the Agreement X8?

2. Is the power of the Customs restricted to verifying whether the goods

exported confirm to the goods said to be exported by the exporter?

The Supreme Court held:

1. The Customs cannot interpret the nature of goods that can be exported

under and in terms of the Agreement X8.

2. The power of the Customs be restricted to verifying whether the goods

exported confirm o the goods said to be exported by the exporters.

Petitioner relies also in the judgment of Vallibel Lanka S.C Appeal 26/2008.

6

Petitioner advert to the legal position that it is settled law that wnen

an Act is self contained and provides for a procedure to deal with violations, there

is no provision to act in terms, of the Customs Ordinance.

Petitioner contends that the Customs Ordinance does not apply to

contraventions of the Plant Protection Act.

The position of the 1st, 6th & ih Respondents differ somewhat to that

of 2nd & 3rd Respondents. The 1st, 6th & ih Respondents resist the application of

the Petitioner, whereas the other Respondents do not seriously contest the

Petitioner but prefer not to offend the provisions of the Customs Ordinance and

in fact no relief is sought against them. As such only a limited role is played by the

2nd & 3rd Respondents.

The Customs Department officials only admit the customs

declaration marked P7. The limited objections filed by these Respondents rc:veal

that the Bio - Diversity Unit of the Sri Lanka Customs initiated an inquiry to

ascertain whether the Petitioner has imported any prohibited items. The relevant

statute i.e the Plant Protection Act No. 35 of 1979 and regulations made therein

are produced marked R1A & R1B. Another document R2 is produced. lt is a

document issued by the Deputy Director of Customs which authorize certain

officials of the Customs Department to enter and search the premises in que~tion

''

7

as referred to therein. lt is pleaded that thereafter the Customs Department

conducted investigations upon entering the premises of the Petitioner Company.

The ih Respondent recorded a statement of the General Manager of the

Petitioner Company (R3). In R3 it is admitted that Petitioner had not obtained the

prior approval or consent of Director General of Agriculture.

The above facts were confirmed by the Director General of

Agriculture (vide R4). Therefore steps were taken to secure the goods. lt is the

position of the 1st, 6th & ih Respondents that the Customs Department is bound

to enforce statutes relating to Bio Diversity at the point of import or export. These

Respondents rely on documents R5, R6 & R7. In the objections filed by above

Respondent it is specifically pleaded that by agreement P2 the Petitioner is

exempted only from operation of Section 10 of the Customs Ordinance and not

exempted from the Plant Protections Act No. 35 of 1995. By P2 the Petitioner and

the 4th Respondent only agreed to the importation of new plant, machinery and

equipment under certain conditions and the importation of used equipment. This

court also observe that most of the averments in the limited objections have oeen

included as above in the objections filed of record on behalf of 1st 6th & ih

Respondents.

8

The objections on behalf of the 2nd & 3rd Respondents, it appears that

certain approvals had been granted to import coir yarn by the Petitioner at

various stages subject to approval of any relevant authority. (RlO, 2R13, 2R14 &

2R16). The entirety of the objections filed by the 2nd & 3rd Respondents indicate

that approvals has been granted to the Petitioner and requests made to fulfill

certain conditions, i.e purchase from the local market etc. All that has been done

subject to the required approval or sanction of the Customs Department. There is

no single document produced by the 2nd &3rd Respondents that gives the

impression that approval or sanction of the Customs Department is not required.

At every turn approval granted subject to the final approval of the Department of

Customs.

I would incorporate paragraphs 8 & 9 of the objections of 2nd &

3rd Respondents which clarify the position that it is always necessary to get the

final approval or that the Department of Customs needs to grant the final

authority for such imports.

8.

(a) The 2nd Respondent recommended the importing of the said Coir Yarn

subject to specific condition that the Petitioner should obtain the necessary

approval from relevant authority.

9.

9

(b) In terms of the Regulations made under the Plaint Protection Ordinance as

amended, the importing of coconut and Coconut Plants are prohibited and

and/or restricted.

(c) According to Section 13(2) of the Plant Protection Act No. 35 of 1999, the

said regulation marked 'P9' is still in force;

(d) Plant Protection Act has defined the word plant as "all members of the

plant kingdom, whether living or dead, or any part or parts thereof and

includes seeds".

(e) Thus, according to regulation No. 10 of "P9" and Plant Protection Act No.

35 of 1995, the Petitioner should have obtained a license from Director of

Agriculture before importing the said coir yarns;

(f) "Plant" means all members of plant kingdom, whether living or dead, or

any part or parts thereof and includes seeds.

(a) One of intention to the Plant Protection Act and the Regulations imposed

therein is to prevention or spreading of pests, weeds and diseases injurious

to, or destructive of plants in Sri Lanka;

(b) Such prevention could be done only if the imports are tested for harmful

microbiology and quarantine of the imported plants and products;

(c) Bio Diversity Unit of Sri Lanka Customs is equipped to carry out such

microbiological tests and the Sri Lanka Customs is entitled to carry out :~uch

microbiological tests.

(d) For the protection of local coconut cultivations and industry, the 2nd and 3rd

Respondent has no objection whatsoever for such research or tests by Sri

Lanka Customs or any other lawful authority.

10

(e) These Respondents stress the need for such tests for importation of all

plants in order to prevent the spreading of pests in the Country and out-

break of various pests related diseases and infections.

The two judgments cited on behalf of the Petitioner has no direct

application to the case in hand. In fact same applies under different

circumstances which are very much different to the case presented to this court

by each party. lt is a question of interpretation of the statute and the applicability

of the provisions of the Customs Ordinance. To make it clear I would incorporate

the portion of the judgment in S.C Case No. 26/2008 the Vallibel Lanka (Pvt.

Limited Case.

Learned DSG strenuously contended that the GST Act as amended by Act No. 26

of 2000 draws a clear distinction between imported goods and other goods and

puts the imported goods directly in a different category and vests the

administration of the said Act on imported goods in the Director General of

Customs. lt is on this basis counsel argued that the intention of the legislature was

that the GST on imported goods be brought under the regime of the Customs

Ordinance. In view of the finding that "MV lnduruwa Valley" was not imported

into Sri Lanka, the application of Act No. 26 of 2000 does not arise. In any event, it

is noted that in terms of the said Act, the charging, levying and collection of GST

could be made as if it were a Customs duty whilst the recovery of tax in default on

11

the other hand is vested with the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue by

virtue of Sections 39 _to. 49 in Chapter VIII of the GSl Act No. 34 of 1996 as

amended. Thus, when the GST Act makes general provisions in respect of certain

matters and makes specific provision with respect to (/recovery" the latter I'Y'lust

prevail over the general. The special jurisdiction with regard to (/recovery" must

therefore be exercised by the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue and not

by the Director General of Customs.

This court is of the view, which are fortified by the position of the

Customs Department that agreement P2 exempt the Petitioner only from

operation of Section 10 of the Customs Ordinance, and does not exempt the

operation of Act No. 35 of 1999 and its regulations. Though the Customs

Department cleared the goods at a certain point, it cannot preclude any further

investigations by the Department of Customs, if there is a necessity to do so. The

Customs Ordinance would always empower the authorities of the Customs

Department to decide on the lawful importation of articles or goods. Merely

because the 'CUSDEC' for importation of coir yarn was endorsed by the 4th

Respondent cannot preclude any investigations by the l

5t, 6th & ih Respondents

i.e whether coir yarn imported are imported according to law. The provisions of

Plant Protection Act and its regulations (R25) would not prohibit the provisions of

the Customs Ordinance being applied to any import of goods/articles etc.

12

To add to the above the contents of documents R4 & R5 would not

support the case of the Petitioner. Nor can this court consider documents RG, R7

& R8 (though being internal circulars on the Customs Department) lightly since it

would in a way support International Customs & Treaties on various aspects, and

also to consider the subject matter of this application.

In all cases involving imports of goods, there is no doubt that the

Customs Ordinance would apply and any violation of those provisions has to be

dealt according to law. What goes to the root of the matter is the question of

lawful importation. The Customs Ordinance is so designed to cater to all kinds of

violations and the burden would shift to the Petitioner to establish and prove

lawful importation. Even if the state is called upon to prove importation, the

Petitioner would not be relieved of the burden of proving lawful importation. A

mere authority obtained under another statute cannot be the final authority in

cases involving import of goods/articles. In terms of Sections 12, 43, 125 & 152 of

the Customs Ordinance goods could be seized at any point of time if same is

illegally imported contrary to the above sections of the Customs Ordinance. The

degree of required proof had been discussed in 'Govindasamy's case 1980 (2) SLR

278 ...

13

On 02.06.1973 customs officers seized 29 full bags of garlic and two open baJS of

garlic from the plaintiff's shop. After inquiryJ the goods were declared forfeited as

they were imported into the country unlawfully.

Plaintiff instituted this action to recover a sum of Rs. 38J630/- being the value of

the garlic alleged to have been seized wrongfully from him. lt was case of the

plaintiff that the garlic was supplied by two local cultivators and therefore not

imported and hence not liable to be seized.

Held:

(i) The burden is on the State to prove that the garlic had been imported, before the

plaintiff can be called upon to prove that it was lawfully imported.

(ii) The Customs Ordinance is a penal enactment which imposes severe penalties on

those who violate its provisions. The State must therefore establish any breach of

those provisions beyond reasonable doubt as in a criminal prosecution {Attorney

General v. Lebbe Thamby 61 NLR 256 followed).

(iii) In terms of section 155 of the Customs Ordinance the plaintiff must be the owner of

the goods.

In all the above facts and circumstances the material placed before

this court by the Petitioner cannot assist the Petitioner to invoke the writ

jurisdiction of this court. The approval granted to the Petitioner are all subject to

14

the final authority of the provisions of the Customs Ordinance. This is not a fit

case to interfere by granting the writs prayed for by the Petitioner. As such this

application is dismissed without costs.

Application dismissed.

H. N. J. Perera J.

I agree.

... () Cs V'-) -..A- ...e\..C... ~~· E OF THE COURT OF APPEAL