==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I I I I I !

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI

LANKA

CA (PHC)APN 113/2010 M.M.P.Fernando

Vs

Petitioner-Petitioner

Delpitiya/Gampola PC 46872 1. S.M.Podimenike

HC Kandy 60/200s(Rev) 2. S. Erawpola

3. R.B. Jayaweera

4. Ramiah

s. S. Erawpola

ResQondent-ResQondents

BEFORE: A. W .A. Salam J

Sunil Rajapakse J

COUNSEL L.E.Wijewardena for 1,2,5 Respondents

ARGUED ON 20.06.2013

DECIDED ON: 02.12.2013

Sunil RajaQakse J'I

When the Petitioner's Revision Application was taken up for argument on

20.2.2013 the learned Counsel for the Respondent raised following preliminary

objections regarding the maintainability of this application. Those objections

are as follows:

2

i) Although the Petitioner has a right of appeal, the Petitioner has

come by way of Revision application and therefore he must aver

exceptional circumstances:

ii) The mandatory requirement stating that he has not previously

invoked the jurisdiction of this court has not been averred in his

petition;

iii) The Petitioner had failed to mention the grounds of revision

application;

Both parties agreed to dispose this matter by way of written

submissions.

The Petitioner appeared in person and made his submissions.

In this case the Respondents-Respondents-Respondents Counsel

urged if there is a statutory right of appeal from an order of the Provincial

High Court that the Petitioner could institute an application in Revision

only if exceptional circumstances are averred in the Petition. Therefore,

the Respondent's main contention is that the Petitioner cannot maintain

this revision application as the Petitioner has failed to plead any

exceptional circumstances.

With regard to the above objection I am of the view that it is now

settled law that the exercise of the revisionary powers is confined to

cases in which exceptional circumstances exist warranting the

intervention of Court. It is well established principle that a party who has

no alternative remedy can invoke revisionary jurisdiction of Court of

Appeal only upon establishment of exceptional circumstances. In

r

f

3

Rustome vs Hapangama it has been held inter alia that revision is

available to a party even if there is a right of appeal in exceptional

circumstances. Further I would also like to consider a judgment of Justice

Udalagama in Devi Property Development (Pvt) ltd., and another vs

Lanka Medical (Pvt) ltd., C.A.518/01 decided on 20.06.2001. His Lordship

in the said judgment observed thus : "Revision is an extraordinary

jurisdiction vested in court to be exercised under exceptional

circumstances, if no other remedies are available. Revision is not available

until and unless other remedies available to the Petitioner are

exhausted. "

In K.W.Ranjith Samarasinghe vs K.W. Wilbert C.A{PHC) 127/99 and

PHC Galle No. 59198, whereby the Appellant made an appeal to the Court

of Appeal from the H.C. Galle against the order under Section 66 of the

Primary Court Procedure Act, Sisira de Abrew J held "It is a well

established principle that a party who has an alternative remedy can

invoke revisionary jurisdiction of a Superior Court only upon

establishment of exceptional circumstances. As I observed that the

Respondent who sought the revisionary jurisdiction of Court of Appeal

has an alternative remedy in this case. Petitioner aggrieved by the

judgment of the learned High Court Judge in the exercise of his

revisionary jurisdiction against the order made by the learned Magistrate

has not appealed against the said order, but he has filed the present

application in Revision. I have gone through the Petitioner's petition and

note that the Petitioner has not established any exceptional

circumstances in his petition. In order to maintain a revision application

f !

4

an exceptional circumstances should be averred in the petition. But in the

present revision application there is no such exceptional circumstances

disclosed to grant relief by way of revision. Further the Petitioner has not

stated as to what errors of law or facts exist in the order canvassed. In

this case the Petitioner has not noted any exceptional circumstances

which constituted a grave miscarriage of justice tor revise the impugned

order of the learned Magistrate. Furthermore , the Petitioner has not

specifically elaborated how the impugned order of the Magistrate is

illegal and he has no alternative remedies or other remedies rather than

revision application".

After considering submissions made by both parties I hold on the

facts and circumstances of this case do not warrant the exercise of

revisionary powers of the Court. Therefore, I uphold the preliminary

objections raised by the Respondents. For the aforesaid reasons the

Revision Application of the Petitioner is dismissed without costs.

Revision application is dismissed without costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Salam J.,

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL