==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

1 1 i 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

1. M.H. Priyani alias Chooty 2. M.A Geethika Damayanthi alias Menike

Accused -A ppellan ts

Vs.

The Attorney General,

Respondent

C.A. 10-11/2010

H.C. Colombo Case No: 1153/2002

Before

Counsel

Sisira J. de Abrew,J. (Acting PICA) &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

Saliya Pieris for the Accused-Appellant.

Haripriya Jayasundera DSG. for the respondent.

Argued &

Decided on 07.02.2014

*********

Sisira J. de Abrew,J.(Acting PICA)

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases. The 1st

accused in this case was convicted for being in possession of 4.89 grams of

heroin. The 1 st and the 2nd accused were convicted for trafficking the said

amount. The 1st accused on the 1 st Count was visited with Life

1

j j 1 I I

...

Imprisonment. The learned trial Judge imposed Life Imprisonment on 1 st

and 2nd accused on the 2nd Count. Being aggrieved by the said convictions

and the sentences they have appealed to this Court. Facts of this case may

be briefly summerized as follows:

Kuruppu who was attached to the Excise Department, on

information received by him, went and met the 2nd accused in this case in a

house around 10.00 O'clock on 24.05.2001. He posed as a hotel employee

and told the 2nd accused that he wanted to buy heroin. Again around 3.30

p.m. on the same day he met the 2nd accused in her house and discussed

the business of heroin. On the instructions of the 2nd accused, Kuruppu

went to Ratmalana Railway Station. Thereafter both the 1 st and the 2nd

accused came and met Kuruppu at Ratmalana Railway Station. At this time

Kuruppu introduced Edna Silva another officer attached to the Excise

Department as one of his sisters. Kuruppu and Edna Silva wanted to buy

15 grams of heroin. Both the 1st and the 2nd accused instructed Kuruppu

2-V and Edna Silva to go to Buddha statute" junction at Ratmalana. The time

I--was around 6.30 p.m. The 1st accused thereafter gave a parcel of heroin to

Kuruppu and said that they had only 12 grams of heroin. At this time both

Kuruppu and Edna Silva introducing themselves as officers from the

Excise Department arrested both accused appellants.

2

The 1 st accused -appellant gave evidence and denied the

charge. Her evidence may be briefly summerized as follows. The 1 st

accused, in her evidence, admitted that her husband was a heroin addict

and he had two cases. She infact admitted that on this day she was

returning from the prison after visiting her husband. According to the 1st

accused's evidence, both of them ( 1 st and the 2nd accused) had gone to

see the husband of the 1st accused in the Prison. When they returned to

Il-~ Ratmalana they went to a boutique at Buddha statute' junction in

A Ratmalana and started taking some cool beverages. When they were

finishing, male Excise Officers arrested them. The 1 st accused says that, at

this time, the 2nd accused was with her and they did not have heroin. The

learned trial Judge rejected the evidence of the 1st accused. The 2nd

accused, in her dock statement, almost confirmed what the 1 st accused

stated in her evidence . The learned trial Judge rejected the evidence of the

1 st accused and the dock statement of the 2nd accused. I will later deal the

basis on which the learned trial Judge rejected the evidence of the 1 st

accused. Before I deal with the rejection of the evidence of the 1 st accused by

the learned trial Judge, I would like to consider certain discrepancies that

had taken place after the accused appellants were arrested. Kuruppu says

that the productions in this case were handed over to O.I.C. Rohana

Wijeratne on 24.05.2001 around 10.00 p.m. This was the date of detection.

Kuruppu further says that on 25.05. 2001 productions and both accused

were taken to the Magistrate Court. Kuruppu further says that productions

were handed over to the Magistrate Court on 25.05.2001. Vide page 106

and 107 of the brief. But Edna Silva surprisingly takes up a different

3

,

1 i j stand on this point. Edna Silva, in her evidence, states that on 25.5.2001

productions were taken to the Magistrate's Court but were not handed over

to the Magistrate Court. According to Edna Silva the productions were

taken back to the Excise Department on 25.05.2001. Thus it appears

according to Kuruppu, the productions were handed over to the Magistrate's

Court on 25.5.2001. But Edna Silva who went with Kuruppu says that

productions were not handed over on 25.5.2001 to the Magistrate Court.

This is a vital contradiction in the prosecution case. Although Kuruppu and

Edna Silva say, in their evidence, that productions were taken out from the

Excise Department on 25.5.2001, O.I.C Rohana Wijeratne does not support

this version. According to O.I.C Rohana Wijeratne productions were

handed over to him on 24.5.2001 and he deposited the productions in the

safe. According to him thereafter the productions were taken to be handed

over to the Magistrate Court only on 07.06.2001. But according to Kuruppu

and Edna Silva productions were taken on the 25.5.2001. This evidence

is very clearly contradicted by O.I.C. Rohana Wijeratne. If the productions

were taken out from the Excise Department on 25.5.2001 and not handed

over to the Magistrate's Court, what happened to the productions? Did

anybody tamper with the production? I do not find answers to these

questions. If productions were handed over to the Magistrate's Court, as

claimed by Kuruppu on 25.05.2001, how could O.I.C Wijeratne say that the

productions were in the safe till 07.06.2001? There is no answer to this

question. Edna Silva has filed an affidavit in the Magistrate's Court stating

that the seal on the productions was the seal of the O.I.C Rohana Wijeratne

(page 231). But in Court, Edna Silva takes up the position that it was Edna

4

I

1 I I

Silva's seal that was placed on the productions. Although Kuruppu and

Edna Silva arrested both the accused-appellants, when the 1st accused

handed over the parcel of heroin, they did not decide to search the house of

the accused-appellants. According to the evidence, both accused-appellants

lived in one house. The accused-appellants were charged with trafficking of

heroin. According to the evidence of Edna Silva and Kurrupu both accused

were engaged in the business of heroin. Then the question arises as to why

they did not search the house of accused-appellants. Prosecution has failed

to provide an answer to this question. When we consider all these matters,

we feel that there are several reasonable doubts in the prosecution case.

According to the law, the benefit of reasonable doubt must always be given

to the accused. The learned trial Judge has failed to consider the above

matters.

I now deal with the rejection of the evidence of the 1 st accused

by the learned trial Judge. The learned trial Judge rejected the evidence of

the 1St accused-appellant on the basis that the stand taken up by the 1St

accused that is to say that both accused-appellants were arrested at a hotel

.t....-V- (tea boutique) at Buddha Statute junction at Ratmalana had not been

/'-suggested to 1 st and 2nd prosecution witnesses. (vide page 391 of the

judgment of the learned trial Judge). But this observation by the learned

trial Judge factually is incorrect. At page 253 the learned Defence Counsel

who appeared for the accused-appellant suggested to Edna Silva that both

accused were arrested at Suhada Hotel at Ratmalana when they were having

5

ii i i i ,

f r I

l t

tea. Thus the learned trial Judge's rejection of the 1st accused's evidence

was on a wrong basis. We have considered the evidence of the 1 st accused

and note that the prosecuting Crown Counsel had failed to legally mark any

contradictions or omissions. Learned trial Judge has failed to consider this

matter. Learned DSG upholding the best traditions of the Attorney General's

Department submits that she too cannot find a reason to reject the evidence

of the 1st accused. We are pleased with this submission. We have perused

the evidence of the 1st accused-appellant and find no reason to reject her

evidence. How does a trial Judge evaluate the evidence of an accused

person ? For the benefit of the trial Judges and the legal practitioners of

this country, I would like to set down the following guide lines.

1) If the evidence of the accused's is believed, it must be acted upon.

2) If the evidence of the accused creates a reasonable doubt in the

prosecution case, defence of the accused must succeed.

This view is supported by the following judicial decisions.

His Lord ship Justice T.S. Fernando in Ariyadasa Vs. Queen 68 NLR 66

and 68 CLW page 97 set down the following guidelines:-

1. If the jury believed the accused's evidence he IS entitled to be

acquitted.

2. Accused is also entitled to be acquitted even if his evidence, though

not believed, was such that it caused the jury to entertain a

reasonable doubt in regard to his gUilt.

6

IIII

~ ! t f

1 \ 1 I I

..

In Kularatne Vs. Queen 71 NLR page 529 Their Lordships analysing the

dock statement gave the following guide lines:

1. If the dock statement is believed it must be acted upon.

2. The dock statement creates a reasonable doubt in the prosecution

case, defence of the accused must succeed.

The learned trial Judge has failed to consider the guide lines set out

by His Lordships Justice T.S.Fernando in Queen Vs.Ariyadasa. The Judges

in deciding criminal cases must not look at the evidence of an accused

person with a squint eye. This view is supported by judgment of the Indian

Supreme Court in D.N. Pandey Vs. State of Uththara Predesh AIR 1981

Supreme Court 911. Their Lordships in the said judgment held thus ((

Defence witnesses are entitled to equal treatment with those of the

prosecution and Courts ought to overcome their traditional instinctive disbelief

in defence witnesses. Quite often they tell lies but so do the prosecution

witnesses." As I pointed out earlier, there are reasonable doubts in the

prosecution case. But the learned trial Judge without considering them,

has even gone up to the extent of rejecting the accused's evidence.

Prosecution case falls on the evidence of the prosecution itself. We have

earlier stated that there are no reasons to reject the evidence of the 1 st

accused. If the evidence of the 1 st accused is believed, then the position

taken up by the 2nd accused too has to be believed. Further, if the evidence

7

i II ,

1 f III

& I I, t

I

, .

,

.~.

of the 1 st accused is believed, the 1 st and the 2nd accused are also entitled to

be acquitted. When we consider all these matters, we hold the view that the

prosecution has not proved its case beyond reasonable doubt. We therefore

set aside both convictions and life imprisonment imposed on the accused-

appellants and acquit them of the charges with which they were convicted.

Both accused are acquitted.

Appeal allowed.

Acting President of the Court of Appeal

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake,J.

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Jmrj-

8

II

I

I

~ I

,