==== BLOCKS ==== 

...

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A 451/1998 (F) D.C. Kalutara No. 4399/L

1. Chitra Damayanthi Perera 2. Lalin Yasendra Perera 3. Dharsana Gayathral Perera 4. Manisha Ajanthi Perera

All of No. 2511A, Chapel Road, Nugegoda.

PLAINTIFFS

Vs.

1. Sinniah Velauden of No. 17911, Temple Road Kalutara North.

2. Arumugam Ganeshan Raja of 179/2, Temple Road Kalutara North.

3. Kandiah Kullamma of No. 179/1, Temple Road Kalutara North.

DEFENDANTS

And

,

2

1. Chitra Damayanthi Perera 2. Lalin Yasendra Perera 3. Dharsana Gayathral Perera 4. Manisha Ajanthi Perera

All of No. 2511A, Chapel Road, Nugegoda.

PLAINTIFF -APPELLANTS

Vs.

1. Sinniah Velauden of No. 17911, Temple Road Kalutara North.

2. Arumugam Ganeshan Raja of 17912, Temple Road Kalutara North.

3. Kandiah Kullamma of No. 17911, Temple Road Kalutara North.

DEFENDANTS-RESPONENTS

BEFORE: Anil Gooneratne J.

COUNSEL: Rohan Sahabandu for the Plaintiff-Appellants

M.U.M. Ali Sabry for the Defendant-Respondents

ARGUED ON: 31.01.2012

DECIDED ON: 23.05.2012

3

GOONERA TNE J.

This was an action filed in the District Court of Kalutara for a

declaration of title and eviction/damages against the Defendants. The plaint

comprises of two schedules. Issue No.2 indicates that land described in the

2nd schedule is a part of the land described in the 1 st schedule. The original

owners to the land described in the 1 st schedule were one C. Edward Perera

and G.O. Perera (issue No.1). It is recorded as issue No.3 that the land

described in schedule 2 are owned by 1 st - 4th Plaintiff-Appellants (grand

children of the original owner, except 1 st Plaintiff-Appellant who is the wife

of Gamini Perera and mother of 2nd -4th Plaintiffs). The above named

Gamini Perera was a son of the original owners namely Edward Perera and

G. Orlin Perera. However by deed No. 1490 of 5.1.1959 the said Gamini

Perera became the owner of the entirety of the land as on his death the

Plaintiff s inherited the property in dispute. The position of the 1 st & 3 rd

Defendant-Respondent was that they were the tenants of the above named

Gamini Perera. 2nd Defendant had pleaded prescriptive title to the land

described in the 2nd schedule to the plaint.

4

The record indicates that a settlement was entered in the trial

court on 18.11.1997 between the Plaintiff and 2nd Defendant. The 2nd

Defendant agreed to have judgment entered in favour of Plaintiff as in sub

paragraph 'l:f' and 'l:f)' of the prayer to the plaint. Therefore this appeal need

to consider the position of the 15t & 3rd Defendant-Respondents, more

particularly whether these Respondents were in unlawful possession since in

an action rei-vindicatio when ownership is proved or established then the

Defendants would have to prove their possession to be valid and lawful. The

learned counsel for Defendant-Respondent mentioned that 1

5t & 3rd

Defendant-Respondent came into occupation of separate portions of the

building in the premises in suit and was originally the tenant of Plaintiff s

father, (Gamini Perera) who died and had paid rents and obtained rent

receipts from his father. At the trial the 3rd Defendant gave evidence and

marked several rent receipts alleged to have been issued by the Plaintiff s

father. It was the position of the Respondent that even if the receipts were

not issued by the owner any person who had put the 15t & 3 rd Defendants

into occupation could issue as the landlord, which according to law need not

be the owners. The rent receipt and tax receipts in possession of the 3 rd

Defendant were marked in evidence but Plaintiff required the documents to

5

be put in proof. In fact the learned District Judge has made certain comments

about the weaknesses of each parties case. The proof of the several

documents of Defendant-Respondents seems to be in doubt as the 3

rd

Defendant had given inconsistent evidence as to who issued the receipts but

in cross-examination it transpired that late Gamini Perera's Clerk/Agent had

issued the receipts on behalf of Plaintiff's father.

This court wish to observe that at the very outset of this case at

the trial, as shown and recorded in the proceedings of 3.12.1996 (pg. 1),

Respondents had denied Plaintiff's title. Therefore the question is whether

there was a gradual shift from the original position? There is another matter

that need to be mentioned though parties may have thought that no issue

need be raised, based on P6 & P7. Perusal of these documents indicate that

the land in question had been released after same had been vested in the

Land Reform Commission (P7). The said document also indicate that the

Kalutara Assistant Government Agent had taken over possession of the land

on 24.11.1977, and the land was returned or handed over on a particular date

but the 1 st Plaintiff had not turned up to take over the land and during an

interim period unauthorized persons were occupying the land and eviction,

could be done by the authorities. The effect of vesting agricultural land

6

under Section 6 of the Land Reform Law is to vest the land in the

commission giving the commission absolute title free from encumbrances.

As such any other arrangement which subsisted prior to vesting would have

got wiped out in terms of the law. Was it reviewed after release? Both

parties have not addressed this point.

The 3rd Defendant-Respondent was added to the case in the

District Court, 3 rd Defendant was not named as a party Defendant in the

plaint. The settlement reached in Case No. L/2067 lot 1 & 3 in plan PI

(323a) given to Plaintiff.

It is also noted that the 3rd Defendant was not served with a quit

notice, and the 3 rd Defendant was made a party as it appears to be based on

facts averred in paragraphs 13 & 14 of 1 st Defendant's answer.

There were several points suggested by the Plaintiff-Appellant in the

oral and written submissions. I would attempt to briefly refer to same as

follows:

1. 15t & 3rd Defendant denied title of Plaintiff-Appellant at the very out set of the

trial. As such there is no tenancy between parties.

2. No issue raised to the effect that the 3rd Defendant-Respondent became the tenant

of the Plaintiff after the demise of Gamini Perera, Plaintiff being legal heirs of the

late Gamini Perera.

7

3. Plaintiff never accepted Defendants as Tenants and Defendants denied rights of

Plaintiff to the land in dispute (title decided).

4. All documents produced by 3rd Defendants (rent receipts, tax receipts) not proved.

All documents were admitted in evidence subject to proof but no proof adduced to

prove the document. As such tenancy between Gamini Perera and 3rd Defendant

not proved - tenancy cannot be presumed.

5. Answer to issue Nos. 6 & 7 inconsistent; having answered issue No.6 in the

affirmative. i.e tenant of Gamini Chandra Perera.

6. Issue 14(vii) not answered by the trial Judge (issue 9 - 12 need not be answered

since 2nd Defendant settled the case in the District Court).

The other matter urged by Appellant are more or less mixed question

of fact and law. I will consider those relevant matters in my conclusions.

This court wish to observe that in a rei vindicatio action the burden is

on the Plaintiff to prove ownership. Plaintiffs have discharged that burden.

Thereafter this burden would shift to the Defendant to prove that his

occupation is legal and valid. Tenancy need to be established, of that of the

Defendant and Plaintiff and not between the former owner and the

Defendant. The receipts and documents produced by the 3

rd Defendant-

Respondent were not proved in this case. All the documents produced by the

8

Plaintiff-Appellant (PI - P12) were proved. At the closure of the Plaintiffs

case when documents were read in evidence there was no objection by the

Defendant. As such documents Plaintiffs produced at the trial becomes

admissible and relevant and evidence for all purposes of the case. This is a

principle adopted and followed in court from time immemorial 1981 (1)

SLR 18 at 24. In the case of the Defendants none of the documents had been

proved. In fact the proceedings show that Defendant's documents were not

read in evidence at the closure of the Defendant's case. In the absence of

proof no tenancy could be established. I am unable to agree with the trial

Judge's view that having accepted that the case of the Defendant was weak

and that documents were not proved cannot in law admit a contract of

tenancy between parties in the manner suggested by the learned Judge. Trial

Judge has failed to give his mind to this aspect and examine the evidence in

the case. I would pose the question as raised by the Appellant. The question

of tenancy with whom?

In a case of this nature court must be mindful of the fact that the

whole basis of an action rei vindicatio is the title or rather the superior title

of the plaintiff and a denial of that title or an interference with the Plaintiffs

rights under it by the defendant. 30 NLR at 16. In the case in hand the

9

Plaintiffs have proved that their the full owners of the property sought to be

vindicated. It was their position that the Defendant-Respondents are in

unauthorized possession and entered the property during the period the lands

were vested in the Land Reform Commission. (vide P6 &mP7). The burden

of proof would shift to the Defendant to place sufficient evidence to prove

the basis on which Defendant entered the premises or their legal occupation.

Tenancy cannot be presumed. Nor any inference could be drawn on tenancy,

on inadmissible evidence.

In Mahawithana V s. Commissioner of Inland Revenue. 64 NLR

217. H.N.G. Fernando J. held: ..

(a) If that inference had been drawn on a consideration of inadmissible evidence, or

after excluding admissible and relevant evidence.

(b) If the inference was a conclusion of fact drawn by the Board but unsupported by

legal evidence, or

(c) If the conclusion drawn from relevant facts was not rationally possible, and was

perverse and should therefore be set aside.

I also wish to observe that according to Seelawathie V s. Ediriweera

1982(2) SLR 170 ... If the owner finds conditions of tenancy are breached.

The owner could file action under common law or the Rent Laws. He could

choose either.

10

In all the above circumstances I set aside the judgment of

the learned District Judge and enter judgment as prayed for in the plaint.

Appeal allowed without costs.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL