==== BLOCKS ==== 

Page 1 of 6

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

In the matter of an Application for Bail in terms of section 83 (2) of the Poisons, Opium and Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act No. 41 of 2022.

Officer-in-Charge, CA Case No: BAL/374/2023 Police Station, MC- Kesbewa Mount Lavinia.

Case No: B/1633/22

Complainant Vs.

Meringage Dhanushka Prasadh, No. 291/A, U.D.T. Wimal Perera Mawatha, Miriswatte, Piliyandala.

Suspect

And Now Between

Athurusinhage Shyamali Sandamali, No. 291/A, U.D.T. Wimal Perera Mawatha, Miriswatte, Piliyandala.

Petitioner

Vs.

The Officer-in-Charge, Police Station, Mount Lavinia.

Complainant - Respondent

Hon. Attorney General, Attorney General’s Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

Page 2 of 6

Meringage Dhanushka Prasadh, No. 291/A, U.D.T. Wimal Perera Mawatha, Miriswatte, Piliyandala.

Suspect- Respondent

Before: R. Gurusinghe J.

&

M.C.B.S. Morais J.

Counsel: Mohan Senevirathne with Nuwan Rathnayake for the Petitioner.

Jayalakshi De Silva, SSC for the Respondents.

Inquiry on: 11.03.2024

Decided On: 02.05.2024

M.C.B.S. Morais J.

The petitioner is the wife of the suspect in the case bearing number B/1633/22 in the

Magistrate’s Court of Kesbewa. Though the petitioner states that the suspect was arrested on

31st of July 2022, as for the ‘B’ report, the suspect was arrested on the 1st of August 2022 and

produced before the Magistrate Court of Kesbewa on the 2nd of August 2022. According to

the ‘B report’ dated 02nd of August 2022, the suspect was arrested for being in possession of

an Automatic Firearm and aiding and abetting for committing a murder. After the arrest, the

police questioned the suspect and on information extracted, 503 grams of ‘Diacetylmorphine’

alias ‘Heroin’ was recovered from a vehicle bearing No. DAE-9420 hidden at 1st Lane,

Galabadawatte, S.O.S Road, Kesbewa. Subsequent to the Report of the Government Analysts

the pure quantity of said Heroin is said to be 60.4 grams.

Page 3 of 6

The petitioner has made this application before us under section 83 of the Poisons, Opium

and Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act, No.41 of 2022. As for the provisions of section

83(2),

“83(2) notwithstanding the provisions of sections 84 and 85, a person suspected or

accused of an offence under subsection (1) of section 54A and section 54B-

(a) of which the pure quantity of the dangerous drug, trafficked, imported, exported,

or possessed is ten grams or above in terms of the report issued by the Government

Analyst under section 77A; and

(b) Which is punishable with death or life imprisonment, shall not be released on bail

except by the Court of Appeal in exceptional circumstances.”

The statute does not clarify what exceptional circumstances are. When granting bail to

suspects under the Ordinance, our Superior Courts have taken into account a number of

circumstances that qualify as exceptional.

In, Ramu Thamotharampillai V. The Attorney General [2004] 3 SLR 180, it was held that;

“the decision must in each case depend on its own peculiar facts and circumstances.”

In, Labynidarage Nishanthi V. Attorney General CA (PHC) APN 48/2014), said that;

“…the term „exceptional circumstances‟ has not been explained or defined in any of

the statutes. Judges are given a wide discretion in deciding in what creates a circumstance

which exceptional in nature.”

In, Welathanthrage Amila Sampath Botheju V. Attorney General CA/BAL/0239/23, it was

held that;

“…a certain situation amounts to exceptional circumstances or not, has to be

considered on a case-by-case basis, unique to each application before the court.”

When applied in relation to the facts before us, in paragraph 19 of the petition, the petitioner

pleads that certain averments contained in the petition therein are alleged as exceptional

grounds and they are as follows:

Page 4 of 6

- Improbability of the prosecution case.

- No person suspected or accused of committing offence under the Poisons, Opium and

Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act, No.41 of 2022 shall not be detained in custody

for a period exceeding 12 months from the date of his arrest unless convicted.

Though the petitioner alleges that the suspect was arrested on the 31st of July 2022, on

perusal of the material submitted by the petitioner, I do not find any to substantiate such.

According to the pictures annexed as P5(a), P5(b), P5(c), P5(d), P5(e), and the Compact Disk

of the video recording obtained from the CCTV camera annexed as P6, by the petitioner, a

police jeep bearing number NE 0790 was traveling behind a car bearing number CAH 0496.

Through the aforesaid pictures and the CCTV footage, the petitioner is unable to prove the

illegal arrest and the detention.

As for the initial ‘B report’ dated 02nd of August 2022, filed at the Magistrate’s Court of

Kesbewa by the complainant-respondent states thus;

“තලද මමම වැකකරුමෙන් ප්‍ර඾නන ිරීමම ී හු ිසිනන් පළවන පටුමග, ගලබඩවත්ත, එස්.ඕ.එස්. පාර,

කැස්බෑව ලිපිනයේ වත්තක වඟලා තිබූ එල්඼ාල඼ ලියනමේ ධර්මිනරි මනොමශොත් පැටියාට අයත් අංක DAE

9420 ම඼ොරි රථමේ අගුලු දමා ඇති මබොඩිය තුෂ බෑෙයක බශා තිබූ පාර්ව඼යක් ශමු වී ඇති අතර එය පීමක්඿ා

ිරීමම ී එහි මශමරොයින් බලට අනාලරණය කර ෙැනීමමන් අනතුරුල අංක. 291 ිසමල් මපමර්රා මාලත,

මිරිවනලත්ත, පිළියන්ද඼ ලිපිනමේ පදංචි මමරිඥනඥමේ දනු඿නක ප්‍රවා් යන අය පැය 1..3 ට අත්අංංගුලට මෙන

ඇත.”

However, the further report dated 10th of August 2022, filed at the Magistrate’s Court of

Mount Lavinia, by the Sub Inspector of Police Neel Priyantha Silva states that;

“මමම අලවනථාමේ සැකකරුයේ නිවස සහ නිවයසේ තිබූ වාහන පරීක්ෂා කිරීයේ දී අංක. WP

DAE 9420 දරන මමශේන්ද්‍රා ලර්ෙමේ ම඼ොරි රථයක වඟලා තිබූ මශමරොයින් ‍ෑ 03 ක ප්‍රමානයක් වශ

ම් ප඼ කීපයක් අත්අංංගුලට මෙන වනථානයට ඉදරිපත් ිරීමමමන් අනතුරුල කැවනබෑල මමශේවනත්‍රාත්

අධිකරනමේ නඩු අංක බී.ආර්. 1633/22 යටමත් ෙරු අධිකරනය මලත ඉදරිපත් කර 2022.08.08 ලන

දන දක්ලා රක්ෂිත බන්ධනාොර ෙත කර ඇති අතර 2022.08.10 ලන දනට ෙරු ෙල්ිරවනව මමශේවනත්‍රාත්

අධිකරනමේ නඩු අංක බී 3.13/22 යටමත් ඉදරිපත් ිරීමමට බන්ධනාොර අධිකාීමලරයා මලත ෙරු

කැවනබෑල මමශේවනත්‍රාත් තුමා ිසිනන් යෝමය ෙ කර ඇත.

Page 5 of 6

මමම වැකකරු ශට වැකකරු නුලන් චින්තක ිසිනන් 2022.0..2. ලන දන අපරාධය ිනදු ිරීමමමන් පසු

අපරාධය ිනදු ිරීමමට මයොදා ෙන්නා ඼ද ගියෝ අිසය මෙනිසත් භාර දුන් බලත් හු එම ගියෝ අිසය CAH

0496 දරන අළුපැශැති සුසුිර ඇල්මට ලර්ෙමේ කාර් රථමේ වඟලා තැබූ බලත් නිවයසේ මිදුයේ නලතා

තිබූ අංක WP DAE 9420 දරන මමශේන්ද්‍රා ලර්ෙමේ ම඼ොරි රථය ධර්මිනරි මපමර්රා යන අයමේ දැනු

ී ම මත මෙනැිසත් නලතා තිබූ බලට ප්‍රකා඾ කර ඇත.”

As for the said ‘B report’ on 02nd of August 2022, filed at the Magistrate’s Court of Kesbewa,

the respondents inform that the Heroin was recovered from a vehicle parked at 1st Lane,

Galabadawatta, S.O.S. Road, Kesbewa whereas on a further report filed at Magistrate’s Court

of Mount Lavinia on 10th of August 2022, the respondents state that the said vehicle

contained Heroin was parked at suspect’s residence, it is said to be No. 291/A, U.D.T. Wimal

Perera Mawatha, Miriswatte, Piliyandala. Therefore, it seems on the face of it, there is a

discrepancy in between these two versions.

In my view, this glaring discrepancy as for the recovery of narcotics is an exceptional ground

which should be considered in suspect’s favour, irrespective of the explanation which would

be offered at the trial.

Therefore, I am of the view that this is a fit and proper case to grant bail and accordingly, bail

is granted on the following conditions.

1. The suspect should provide a cash bail of Rs. 200,000.

2. To provide two acceptable sureties to the satisfaction of the Learned Magistrate. They

must sign a bond of Rs. 1,000,000/= each.

3. Suspect should report to the officer in charge of the police station Mount Lavinia on

every first Sunday of the month until the conclusion of the matter.

4. The bail should be cancelled and/or confiscated upon this suspect being arrested again

in connection with another offence alleged to have been committed while on bail or

on violation of any of the bail conditions.

5. To surrender the passport of the suspect if any, to the court. A travel ban is imposed

on the suspect. The controller of Immigration and Emigration is to be informed of the

travel ban of the suspect.

Page 6 of 6

6. The permanent residing address of the suspect should be provided to the court, and

such residence should not be changed without leave of the court until the conclusion

of the case.

Subject to the conditions set out above, bail is granted. The registrar of this court is directed

to send copies of this bail order to the Magistrate Court of Kesbewa, and also to the Officer in

Charge of Police Station Mount Lavinia to inform the due compliance to the relevant court.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

R. Gurusinghe J.

I agree

Judge of the Court of Appeal