==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA C.A. (PHC) Appeal No.69/2012 H.C. Kegalle No.43/981RV

Dahanaka Ralalage Somawathie, No. 108/2, Vihara Mawatha, Mirigama Pasyala.

Respondent- Petitioner – Appellant Vs. Meegahawattege Nilanthi Padma Padmini, but more correctly, Meegahawattege Nilanthi Padma Malani, No. 18/2, Delgahamulahena, Galapitamada.

Respondent-Respondent- Respondent 1. Tennekoon Mudiyanselage Ranasinghe, No. D 18/1, Delgahamulahena, Galapitamada. 2. Sagarika Dilrukshi, No.D 18/4,Delgahamulahena, Galapitamada. 3. Meemana Aratchilage lanitha Priyashanthi, No. D 18/3, Delgahamulahena, Galapitamada.

Respondent - Respondent - Respondents

• 1

C.A. (PHC) No. 69/2012 P.H.C. Kegalle No.4398/Rev.

BEFORE K.T. CHITRASIRI, J. &

MALINIE GUNARATNE, J.

COUNSEL

ARGUED AND

DECIDED ON

K.T. CHITRASIRI, J.

Chanaka Kulatunga for the Substituted-2nd party petitioner-appellant

Dr. S.F.A. Cooray for the 1st party respondent-respondent and 1 st,2nd, 3rd intervenient-responden t -respondent

16th July, 2014.

***********

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the order dated 28.05.2012 of the

learned Magistrate of Kegalle. The appellant also has sought, the reliefs

prayed for in the application bearing No. 4398/Rev. filed in the High

Court in Kegalle. Basically, this appeal is to have the orders dated

28.05.2012 and 29.06.2012 made by the learned Magistrate and the

learned High Court Judge, set aside.

Information had been filed by the Ruwanwalla police in the

Primary Court at Ruwanwalla under the provisions contained in part

1 t l 1 2

VII of the Primary Court Procedure Act. (Vide at page (1) in the appeal

brief). Thereafter, the parties have filed their affidavits explaining the

manner in which the land in dispute had been possessed by the

respective parties. Learned Magistrate having considered those matters

contained in the affidavit and the other materials found in the case

record had decided that the 1 st party respondent and other three

intervenient respondents are entitled to use the roadway to have it six

feet in width, over the land of the 2nd party petitioner-appellant. (Vide at

page 60 in the appeal brief). In that order the learned Magistrate having

examined the evidence in the affidavits, has found that the 1 st party

respondent had used this roadway since the year 1995. Learned

Counsel for the appellant also concedes that the 1 st party respondent

had been using this roadway for a long period of time without any

disturbance been made, until information to Court was filed. However,

he does not agree that there had been a six feet wide road even though

the respondents were using it as a roadway for a long period time. At

this stage both Counsel appearing for the parties submit that steps are

being taken by the authorities to have this disputed roadway acquired

by the Government in order to use it as a public road. It is also brought

to the notice of Court that the learned High Court Judge has dismissed

this application on the basis that there had been another revision

application filed before the same Court on the same issue. Learned

3

Counsel for the appellant does not dispute the fact that there had been

another revision application filed in the High Court to challenge the order

of the learned Magistrate.

Having considered the matters referred to above, we do not

see any error on the part of both the learned Magistrate and the learned

High Court Judge when they decided that the 1st party respondent and

the intervenient respondents are entitled to use the disputed area of

land as a road way. Accordingly, this appeal is dismissed without costs.

Appeal dismissed.

OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

MALINIE GUNARATNE, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Kwk/=