==== BLOCKS ==== 

Page 1 of 9

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

In an application under Article 154(P)(6) of the

Constitution read with section 9 of the High

Court of the Provinces (Special Provisions) Act

No. 19 of 1990.

1. Officer-In-Charge

Police Station, Egodauyana.

COMPLAINANT

Court of Appeal Application No :

CA/PHC/210/2019

High Court of Panadura Application

No. RA/33/2018

Magistrate Court Case No: 69272

Vs.

1. Ven. Badigama Padumahimi

(Viharadhipathi)

Sunanda Upananda Viharaya

Egodauyana.

2. Kandaduruge Padmini Sriyalatha

No.10, Upananda Mawatha,

Katukurunda, Moratuwa.

1st PARTY

Page 2 of 9

1. Bodiyabaduge Matilda Perera

2. Sellapperumage Ramal Sumanarathna

3. Sellapperumage Isuru Dhananjaya

Fernando

4. Sellapperumage Dhanuka Sheron

No. 10, Upananda Mawatha

Katukurunda, Moratuwa.

Now at:

No.738, Mahavidhana Road,

Koralawella, Moratuwa.

2nd PARTY

AND NOW BETWEEN

1. Ven. Badigama Padumahimi

(Viharadhipathi)

Sunanda Upananda Viharaya

Egodauyana.

1st PARTY-PETITIONER

Vs.

1. Bodiyabaduge Matilda Perera

2. Sellapperumage Ramal

Sumanarathna

3. Sellapperumage Isuru Dhananjaya

Fernando

4. Sellapperumage Dhanuka Sheron

Page 3 of 9

No. 10, Upananda Mawatha

Katukurunda, Moratuwa.

Now at:

No.738, Mahavidhana Road,

Koralawella, Moratuwa.

2nd PARTY-RESPONDENTS

5. Kandaduruge Padmini Sriyalatha

No.10, Upananda Mawatha,

Katukurunda, Moratuwa.

1st PARTY -5th RESPONDENT

1. Ven. Badigama Padumahimi

(Viharadhipathi)

Sunanda Upananda Viharaya

Egodauyana.

1st PARTY-PETITIONER-APPELLANT

Vs.

1. Bodiyabaduge Matilda Perera

2. Sellapperumage Ramal

Sumanarathna

3. Sellapperumage Isuru Dhananjaya

Fernando

4. Sellapperumage Dhanuka Sheron

No. 10, Upananda Mawatha

Katukurunda, Moratuwa.

Now at:

No.738, Mahavidhana Road,

Koralawella, Moratuwa.

Page 4 of 9

2nd PARTY-RESPONDENTS-

RESPONDENTS

5. Kandaduruge Padmini Sriyalatha

No.10, Upananda Mawatha,

Katukurunda, Moratuwa.

1st PARTY 5th RESPONDENT-

RESPONDENT

Before: Hon Justice B. Sasi Mahendran, J.

Hon Justice Adithya Patabendige, J

Counsel: Migara Kodithuwakku for the 1st and 2nd Party Respondent-Appellant.

Nishadi with Sachini Fernando for the 1st and 2nd Party Respondent-

Respondent-Respondent

Written 15.08.2022 (by the 2nd Party 1st Respondent-Respondent)

Submission : 05.10.2022 ((by the 1st Party Partitioner-Appellant)

On

Judgment On: 30.07.2026

JUDGMENT

B. Sasi Mahendran, J.

The Appellant (1st Party-Petitioner-Appellant) has preferred this appeal seeking to set

aside the order of the learned Judge of the Provincial High Court of the Western Province,

holden in Panadura, dated 07th November 2019 in Case No. RA 33/2018, wherein the

learned High Court Judge affirmed the order of the learned Magistrate of Moratuwa dated

09th November 2018 in Case No. 69272.

Page 5 of 9

On 16.07.2018, the Officer-in-Charge of the Police Station of Egodauyana filed

information under Section 66 of the Primary Courts’ Procedure Act No 44 of 1979

(hereinafter referred to as the Act) regarding a dispute relating to the possession of the

land between the Appellant and Respondents-Respondents, in the Magistrate’s Court of

Moratuwa

According to the said report, the dispute arose on 18.03.2018. The Appellant lodged a

complaint on the same date, stating that a plot of land belonging to his temple premises,

situated behind the temple, was the subject of a dispute between the parties. Thereafter,

the 2nd party-Respondent-Respondents on 18.03.2018 lodged a complaint and claimed

that the land had been given to them by a former monk many years ago. In 2013, a dispute

arose concerning that land, during which the then incumbent of the temple was hacked

to death. Following that incident, the people demolished the house where she had been

residing, and thereafter her husband and son continued to live in the remaining portion,

which is in the disputed land. Later, on 18.03.2018, the 2nd party lodged a complaint

alleging that the Appellant had threatened them.

Furthermore, on 03.07.2018, the Appellant filed a complaint alleging that the 2nd party

Respondents -Respondents were forcibly entering the disputed land and preparing to

construct a temporary house. The complaint received on 18.03.2018 had been resolved

with the intervention of the police. Similarly, on 03.07.2018, the 1st party Respondent-

Respondent lodged a complaint stating that on 02.07.2018, while she was asleep at home,

the 2nd party Respondents- Respondents damaged the house. On the same date, the 2nd

party-Respondents- Respondents also filed a complaint alleging that her son’s clothes had

gone missing, and she suspected the daughter of the 1st party-Respondent- Respondent.

Further, on 14.07.2018, the 2nd party Respondents- Respondents filed another complaint

stating that the 1st party Respondent had occupied approximately five feet of her land

and constructed a room, which she claimed was an unauthorized construction.

Thereafter, after notices were issued requiring both parties to appear before the Court,

and each party filed affidavits. Upon consideration of the documents submitted by both

parties, together with the report filed by the police, the learned Magistrate concluded that

the 2nd Party -Respondent- Respondent, had established constructive possession of the

disputed land through her son, who is currently residing there as her agent. Accordingly,

the learned Magistrate declared her entitled to possession in terms of Section 68(1) of the

Act.

Page 6 of 9

It is relevant to reproduce the pertinent portion of the impugned order of the learned

Magistrate, which explains how he arrived at his conclusion.

Page 121 of the brief,

“එස ේ ඉවත් කරනු ලැබූ පසුව සිට එම ේථානසෙහි එකී වග උත්තරකරුවන් පදිංචිව සනාසිටින බවට

පළමු පාර්ශවසේ පළමු වග උත්තරකාර ේවාමින් වහන්ස ේ කරුණු ඉදරිපත් කර ඇත. එස ේ වුවද

එසගාඩ උෙන සපාලි ේ ේථානාධිපතිවරො ඉදරිපත් කර ඇති සතාරතුරු වාර්තාසවහි හ ඉහත කී

ඡාොරූප හ ඒවාසේ ලකුණු කර ඇති අිංක 02 දරණ අයිතමෙ අනුව සපනී ෙන්සන් සදවන පාර්ශවසේ

වග උත්තරකරුවන්සේ නිව තවදුරටත් ආරවුල් ගත සේපසලහි පවතින බවයි.

.................

සපාලි ේ ේථානාධිපතිවරොසේ සතාරතුරු වාර්තාව අනුව තවදුරටත් සපනී ෙන්සන් සබෝධිො බදුසේ

මැටිල්ඩා සපසර්රා ෙන අෙ 2017.07.03 වන දන සපාලිසිෙට පැමිණිල්ල ේ ඉදරිපත් කර ඇති බවත්

එකී පැමිණිල්සලන් කිෙැසවන්සන් ආරවුල් ගත ඉඩසේ පදිංචි එකී වග උත්තරකාරිෙසේ පුතාසේ ඇඳුේ

පැළදුේ නැති වී ඇති බවත් එකී නැති වීම ේබන්ධසෙන් පළමු පාර්ශවසේ සදවන වග උත්තරකාරිෙසේ

දෙණිෙ ැක කරනු ලැබ ඇති බවත්ෙ. තවද සපාලි ේ සතාරතුරු වාර්තාව අනුව 2017.07.14 වන දන

සදවන පාර්ශවසේ පළමු වග උත්තරකාරිෙ සපාලි ේ ේථානෙට ඉදරිපත් කර ඇති පැමිණිල්ල මඟින්

ප්‍රකාශ වී ඇත්සත් පළමු පාර්ශවසේ සදවන වග උත්තරකාරිෙ වන පේමිනි ශ්‍රිොලතා ෙන අෙ එකී-

සදවන පාර්ශවසේ පළමු වග උත්තරකාරිෙසේ ඉඩසමන් අඩි 05 ක පමණ ප්‍රමාණෙක් අල්ලාසගන

කාමරෙක් ාදා ඇති බවටයි. ඉහත තත්ත්වෙ අනුව තීරණෙ කළ හැක්සක් 2018.07.14 දනෙ වන විට

ද සදවන පාර්ශවසේ වග උත්තරකරුවන් පදිංචිව සිටින නිව ආරවුල් ගත ඉඩසමහි පැවති බවටයි.

එස ේම 2018 වර්ෂසේ ජුලි මා ෙ වන විටද සදවන පාර්ශවසේ පළමු වග උත්තරකාරිෙසේ සපාඩි පුතා

ආරවුල් ගත ඉඩසමහි පිහිටි නිවස හි පදිංචිව සිටි බව සපනී ෙයි. තම ඉඩසමන් අඩි 05 ක පමණ

ප්‍රමාණෙක් අල්ලාසගන ක ේ කරන ලද නිව තමන් විසින් කඩා ඉවත් කළ විට ශ්‍රිොලතා ෙන අෙ

හ ඇෙසේ දෙණිෙ තමන්ට පහර දුන් බවට ද සදවන පාර්ශවසේ පළමු වග උත්තරකාරිෙ දවුරුේ

ප්‍රකාශෙ මඟින් කරුණු ඉදරිපත් කර ඇත. ඉහත කරුණු අනුව සපනී ෙන්සන් සපාලි ේ සතාරතුරු

වාර්තාව අධිකරණෙට සගාණු කරනු ලබන දනෙ වන විටත් ආරවුල් ගත ඉඩසමහි පිහිටි සදවන

පාර්ශවසේ වග උත්තරකරුවන්සේ නිවස හි බුක්තිෙ ඔවුන්සේ න්තකසේ තිබී ඇති බවයි.”

Being dissatisfied with the above-said impugned order, the Appellant invoked the

revisionary jurisdiction of the High Court of Panadura, where the learned High Court

Judge declined to interfere with the order of the learned Magistrate, holding that no

exceptional circumstances existed to justify the exercise of revisionary powers. Further,

he held that the said order had not shocked the conscience of the court.

Page 7 of 9

Being dissatisfied with the aforesaid order, the present appeal has been preferred before

this Court.

The central contention of the Appellant is that the learned Magistrate misapplied Section

68(1) of the Act by failing to correctly determine possession of the disputed land. At this

juncture, I am mindful of Section 68(1) of the said Act which reads as follows,

“(1) Where the dispute relates to the possession of any land or part thereof it

shall be the duty of the Judge of the Primary Court holding the inquiry to

determine as to who was in possession of the land or the part on the date of the

filing of the information under section 66 and make order as to who is entitled to

possession of such land or part thereof.”

Section 68(1) imposes a statutory duty on the Judge of the Primary Court to determine

who was in possession of the disputed land on the date the information was filed under

Section 66. When a police officer files a report under Section 66(1)(a) of the Act, the

learned Magistrate is vested with jurisdiction to inquire into the matter. Then he has to

consider who was in possession at the time the dispute arose.

At this juncture, I am mindful of the following judgments.

In the case of Ramalingam v. Thangarajah [1982] 2 SLR 693 at 698. Sharvananda, J (as

he was then) held that,

“In an inquiry into a dispute as to the possession of any land, where a breach of

peace is threatened or is likely under Part VII, of the Primary Courts Procedure

Act, the main point for decision is the actual possession of the land on the date of

the filing of the information under section 66;

Punchinona v. Padumasena and Others [1994] 2 SLR 117 at 122 Ismail J held that,

“The primary object of the jurisdiction so conferred is the prevention of a breach of

the peace arising in respect of a dispute affecting land. The Court in exercising this

jurisdiction is not involved in an investigation into title or the right to possession

which is the function of a civil Court. He is required to take action of a preventive

and provisional nature pending final adjudication of rights in a civil Court.”

David Appuhamy v Yassasi Thero 1987 (1) SLR 253 at 258 Wijetunga J.

Page 8 of 9

“This section requires the, Judge of the Primary Court to make a declaration as to

who is entitled to possession of the land. The basis of such declaration is the,

determination as to who was in possession of the land ;on the date of the filing of

the information under section 66.”

According to the above judicial precedent, the object of the inquiry is not to determine

ownership or title to land, but to preserve public peace by making a provisional

determination of possession until the rights of the parties are finally adjudicated by a

competent civil court. Accordingly, proceedings under Section 66 are not intended to

resolve competing claims of ownership. The inquiry is strictly confined to the factual

question of possession.

At this juncture, I am mindful of the case of Iqbal v. Majedudeen and Others [1999] SLR

213 at 216 where Gunawardana, J. held that,

“The law recognizes two kinds of possession:

(i) when a person has direct physical control over a thing at a given time, he is said

to have actual possession of it;

(ii) a person has constructive possession when he, though not in actual possession,

has both the power and the intention at a given time to exercise dominion or control

over a thing either directly or through another person.”

In the present case, the 2nd party-Respondent-1st Respondent is to be regarded as having

had constructive possession of the land as at 16/07/2018, despite the absence of continuous

physical occupation. The fact that her son was residing in or otherwise connected with

the land supports the inference that possession was being exercised through him on her

behalf, which is sufficient in law to constitute possession without physical occupation.

It should be noted that on 02.07.2018, she lodged a complaint with the police alleging that

belongings of her son had been taken by the 1st party-Respondent-Respondent. This

establishes that the 2nd party was in possession of the land even before the dispute arose.

I am mindful that our courts have consistently held that where an alternative remedy is

available, they are reluctant to invoke revisionary jurisdiction. In this context, Section 74

of the Act provides such an alternative remedy, thereby limiting the circumstances in

which revision may be entertained, which reads as follows,

Page 9 of 9

“(1) An order under this Part shall not affect or prejudice any right or interest in

any land or part of a land which any person may be able to establish in a civil suit;

and it shall be the duty of a Judge of a Primary Court who commences to hold an

inquiry under this Part to explain the effect of these sections to the persons

concerned in the dispute.”

I hold that the learned High Court Judge has rightly determined that there has been no

miscarriage of justice, and further, that the Magistrate’s order does not shock the

conscience of the Court.

Accordingly, I find that the order of the learned Magistrate should be affirmed, as it was

correct in granting possession of the land to the 2nd party-Respondents-Respondents.

For the foregoing reasons, there is no necessity to interfere with the order of the learned

High Court Judge dated 07th November 2019 and with the order of the learned

Magistrate dated 09th November 2018.

For the aforesaid reasons, I dismiss the Appeal.

The Registrar is hereby directed to copy this Judgment to the Magistrate's Court of

Ratnapura with the original brief.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Adithya Patabendige, J.

I AGREE.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL