==== BLOCKS ==== 

! 1 f I •

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

C.A (Writ) Application No. 463/2011

In the matter of an application for

Writ of Certiorari Mandamus under

and in terms of Article 140 of the

Constitution of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

1.

2.

1

Waga Pedigedara Karunawathie

of No.39, East Manampitiya,

Manampitiya.

PETITIONER

Vs.

Director General

Sri Lanka Mahaweli Authority,

500, I.B. Jaya Mawatha,

Colombo.

Nishantha Kumara Jayatunga,

Unit Manager, Unit Manager's

Office, Sri Lanka Mahaweli

I

II ! t J

II

1 I

BEFORE

Authority, East Manampitiya,

Manampitiya.

3. Mr. Gunadasa Hearath, Cercuit

Manager, Circuit Manager's

Office, Sri Lanka Mahaweli

Authority, Dimbulagala.

4. Mr. Weeresinghe Ringsley, The

Resident Business Manager,

Mahaweli B Zone, Sri Lanka

Mahaweli Authority, Welikanda.

5. Hon. Attorney Genera"

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

6. R.M. Sumithra Priyanganie, 187,

Methsirigama, Manampitiya.

RESPONDENT

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J

2

I

j I 1 I f

I I

\ I I J 1 ,

\ I j

1 I I I

COUNSEL

Argued On

Decided On

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake J.

J.M. Wijebandara with M. Sarathchandra for

the Petitioner

Anusha Fernando SC for the 1st -5th

Respondents

Kaushalya Molligoda for the 6th Respondent

10.05.2013

26.09.2013

Bodiya Baduge Dhannadasa was the permit holder of two crown grants given

under L D 0 permits P3 and P4 for a land and a paddy land. He had

nominated one Bodiya Baduge Sumithra, relative daughter of him, as the

successor to those grants. Aforesaid Dhannadasa had got married the

Petitioner on 23.06.1987. By that time nomination in respect of land had

3

already been made. But nomination in respect of paddy land had been made

only after the marriage. Therefore the Petitioner sates that the nomination

made in respect of the land prior to the marriage gets cancelled by operation

of Law. Furthermore the petitioner states as the widow of the grantee she is

entitled to life interest in respect of the paddy land. The Petitioner alleged

that the 1 st Respondent without given an opportunity to her to submit her

claim had issued two permits in the name of the 6th Respondent after the

death of her husband. According to the Petitioner that had been done on the

purported basis that the 6

th Respondent was the nominated successor.

The Petitioner has filed this application in this court pleading for a mandate

in the nature of a Writ of Certiorari cancelling and nullifying grants marked

as P7 and P8 and Writ of mandamus compelling the Respondents to execute

the permits in favor of the Petitioner in respect of both land and paddy land

set out in the original permits marked as P3 and P4.

1 st to 5th Respondents state in their objections inter alia,

(a) The deceased permit holder had never disclosed to the Respondents

that he had contracted a lawful marriage with the Petitioner;

(b) The Petitioner who purports to be the widow of the deceased permit

holder failed and neglected to enter possession of the land described

4

1i I Ii !IlI

tI

I

j I I I ! i , i I i 1

\ ! I I

I l

!

~ t I

~

1 I I ,

" I ! l I I

j

in P3 and P4 within the time period stipulated by law and I or to ,

submit a timely claim;

(c) As a result an inquiry had been held in order to decide the successor

to the lands described in P3 and P4;

(d) To this end the notice marked as PIO and Pll dated 30th March

2010 had been displayed calling for those who qualify under the 3rd

schedule to the Ordinance to submit their claims;

After following the relevant procedure the 4th Respondent has decided that

the 6th Respondent was the one who was entitled to be issued to the permits.

The 6th Respondent in her objections states inter alia, that she is the daughter

of sister of the original grantee. She was aware only the fact that original

grantee had been married at some point of time, but she never new that the

Petitioner was the wife of that marriage. She affirms that the original grantee

and his wife were separated until the death of the said grantee.

The 6th Respondent further states the following. No one including the

Petitioner had made any attempt to enter in to possession of the land within a

period of six months from the death of the original grantee. For the aforesaid

reason Petitioner is not entitle to claim the right to permits, in terms of the

provisions of the Land Development Ordinance. The 1st to 4th Respondents

5

had taken steps to conduct a transparent and comprehensive investigation for

nearly one year to decide on the successor to the permits of the deceased.

The petitioner states that she was not given opportunity to submit a claim.

Yet again she gives a reason as an excuse to her failure to submit her claim

that she suffered from Osteo Porosis during the relevant period. She also

states that she had entrusted a person to look after her property after the

demise of her husband.

When considering the above three points, it is evident that above three points

are contradicting with each other. The submission has been made on behalf

the Petitioner that the principle of "audi alteram partem" has been violated

by not listening to both sides before arriving at a decision. Therefore the

procedure followed by the authorities is wrongful and the decision is ultra

vires the counsel argues.

But as the authorities were unaware of a legal marriage of the deceased

person and the absence of any claim from the Petitioner, the authorities had

no alternative but to listen to the parties that participated at the inquiry and

take a decision. To quash an administrative decision there should be an error

that occurred in the process of arriving at the decision. If the decision making

authority has acted bonafide, the subsequently involved factors would not

make the said decision erroneous. This court is of the view that the 1 st to 4th

Respondents have acted bonafide and in accordance with the provisions of

6

1f

l , I

\ I , I II

J f

I i I

1,;

Land Development Ordinance in arriving at the decision to issue the permits Imarked as P7 and P8 to the 6th Respondent.

Unaccountable inaction on the part of the Petitioner and not being alert to her

rights (if any) , in my opinion, has to be regarded as a willful renunciation.

That disentitles her from inviting this Court to grant the prerogative remedy.

I, therefore dismiss the Petition without cost.

Application dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

7 I t I