==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA 873/98 D.C. 1768/L

Rani Punchihewa and another

Defendants -Appellants Vs. Ranjith Punchihewa

Plaintiff-Respondent

1

CA 873/98 DC BALAPITIYA 1768/L

Before

Counsel

K.T. Chitrasiri, J.

D.M.G. Dissanayake with M.D.J. Bandara

for the 1st & 2nd Defendant-Appellants.

Rohan Sahabandu PC with Ms.Hasitha Amarasinghe

for the Plaintiff-Respondent.

Argued &

Decided on: 05.07.2013.

K.T. CHITRASIRI, J.

When this matter was taken up for argument on the 13.02.2013,

learned Counsel for the Appellant restricted his appeal to a question of

law raised on that date. The question of law so raised reads thus:

"Is the plaintiff-respondent entitled in law to have the relief

prayed for in the plaint dated 13.08.1991, in the absence of

terminating the licensee of the defendant-appellant having pleaded

that the defendant is a licensee in paragraph 8 of the aforesaid

plaint?"

2

However, the President's Counsel for the plaintiff-respondent then

submitted that the defendant-appellants cannot take up such a position

at this appeal stage since it was not an issue before the trial judge. In

support of his contention Mr. Sahabandu P.C. refers to the decision in

Padmini Vs. Jayaseeli (2004 (3) SLR at page 13). In that decision

Balapatabendi, J, has held thus:

"It is clear that the defendant-appellant had claimed to possess

the said property as a eo-owner against the plaintiff-respondent

but not one under the plaintiff respondent. Therefore, I am

inclined to agree that the doctrine of "approbate and reprobate"

forbids the assertion of the defendant-appellant," when the

defendant-appellant failed to establish that she was a eo-owner

how could she now insist - on termination of the leave and licence

-which never existed according to her."

In that decision, Court held that the appellants could not have

taken up a different issue in the appeal which had not been raised in the

original Court as far as the facts of the case is concerned. The law

pronounced in the above decision is conceded by the learned Counsel

for the appellant. The circumstances of this appeal at hand, are almost

similar to the facts in the case referred to by Mr. Sahabandu P.C ..

Accordingly, I conclude that the defendant-appellants cannot take up the

position that the appellants have failed to send a letter terminating the

licenseeship of the defendant-appellant at this appeal stage when he has

3

not taken up such a position before the trial judge. The position took up

by the defendant-appellants before the trial judge had been the defence

of prescription.

Accordingly, it is my v1ew that the only issue raised by the

plaintiff-appellants in this appeal should be decided in favour of the

plaintiff-respondent. Accordingly, this appeal is dismissed with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

Mm/-.