==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA. CA Application No. 859/09.

Prof. Arjuna Parakrama, Kadrambe Estate, Doratiyawa, Kurunegala.

Petitioner. Vs. 1. University of Peradeniya, Peradeniya, 2. Prof. S.B.S. Abayakoon, Vice Chancellor, 3. Prof. H. Abeygunawardena, Former Vice Chancellor, 4. Prof. A. Wickremasinghe, 5. Dr. K. Samarasinghe, 6. Dr. ASP Abhayaratne, 7. Prof. EADP Amaratunga, 8. Prof. W.M.S.B. Weerakoon, 9. Dr. A.G. Buthpitiya. 10. Prof. SHP: Karunaratne, 11. Prof. P. Abeynaike. 12. Prof. C.D.A. Goonasekera. 13. Prof. N.V.I. Rathnatunga. 14. Prof. R.I. Wijeweera. 15. Prof. D. Hewawitharana. 16. Prof. A.D.P. Kalansooriya. 17. Prof. K.N.O. Dharmadasa. 18. Dr. K. Gunewardene. 19. Dr. D. Medagedene. 20. Mr. W.M. Jayawardene. 21. Dr. P. Ramanujam, 22. Dr. S.B. Ekanayake. 23. Mr. D. Mathi Yugarajah.

All of the University Council.

Respondents.

I

I I IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for orders

under Article 140 of the Constitution.

*******

C.A. (Writ) Application No. 859/09

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

: Anil Gooneratne J.

Oeepali Wijesundera J.

: Dr. Almeida Gunaratne PC with

Shihan Ananda, Thilak Wijesinghe

and Kishali Pinto Jayawardene

for the Petitioner.

Chaya Sri Nammuni S.C. for all

the Respondents.

: 11th July, 2013.

: 30th August, 2013

1

Oeepali Wijesundera J.

The petitioner has preferred this application against the

respondents for a writ of Certiorari to quash the decision made by them

and conveyed to the petitioner by documents marked as P7 and P12 and

for a writ of Mandamus directing the 1st, 2nd, 4th to 28th respondents to

accept the petitioners letter of withdrawal marked as P8 and also for a

writ of prohibition to prevent the respondents from filling the post of

Professor of English at the Peradeniya University.

The petitioner was appointed as the Professor of English of the 1

st

respondent University and assumed duties in March 2004. Due to ill

health the petitioner has decided to resign from this post and sent a letter

addressed to the 3rd respondent dated 01/07/2009 giving three month

notice. This letter is marked as P6. The 3rd respondent has written

directly to the petitioner accepting his resignation dated 14/07/2007

marked P7. By letter dated 25/09/2009 and marked as PS, the petitioner

has withdrawn this letter of resignation. This letter was hand delivered to

the 2nd respondent by a colleague of the petitioner, since the petitioner

was sick. The said colleague has given an affidavit to this effect marked

as PS2. The 2nd respondent has accepted the letter from the said person

without any protest. After a month since there was no reply the petitioner

has written again to the 2nd respondent on 22/10/2009 marked P9.

The 2nd respondent has informed the petitioner by P12 that his

letter of resignation was accepted at the 379th Council Meeting held on

29/08/09 and that his letter of withdrawal was addressed to the 2nd

respondent and not to the proper channel, therefore it could not be

2

entertained at that stage. He was not given the University Council

Meeting minutes though he asked for them but managed to get them

later. This is marked as P12B which states that his letter of withdrawal

can be considered only if It is given on or before the 1st of October 2009.

The learned Presidents Counsel for the petitioner submitted that

the decision of the University Council was taken without even considering

P8 which clearly states that the petitioner wishes to withdraw his letter of

resignation. P8 was sent to the 1st respondent University within the

stipulated time of 3 months. The petitioner stated that the Vice Chancellor

to whom P8 was sent did not bring it to the attention of the University

Council that such a letter was received by him therefore P12 clearly

constitutes an error on the face of it and for the same reason it

constitutes a mala fide decision.

The learned counsel for the respondent's argument was that the

resignation letter was not addressed to the Governing Authority which is

the University Council as required by clause 4:1 of the Establishment

Code therefor it could not be accepted.

The reSignation letter of the petitioner (P8) is addressed to the Vice

Chancellor and sent to him through the Dean and Head of the

Department directly. The Vice Chancellor has accepted it and sent a

letter (P7) directly to the petitioner. The petitioner's letter of withdrawal

marked P8 was thereafter sent directly to the Vice Chancellor which the

respondents argued was not sent through the proper channels. But this

argument is contradicted by P12B which is the minutes of the 379

th

3

I I

meeting of the University Council held on the 29th of August 2009 which

states thus:

379. 10.6. 1 Resignation from the Post of Professor of English

Prof. A. Parakrama, Department of English, Faculty

Of Arts (Council Paper C/09/07/379/10.6.1)

The Council considered the above memorandum and

noted that Prof A. Parakrama, Professor of English,

faculty of Arts tendered his resignation from the Post

through proper channels and the Vice-Chancellor had

already accepted his resignation with effect from

01.10.2009 subject to the covering approval of the

Council. Therefore, the Council endorsed the approval

granted by the Vice-Chancellor subject to recovery of

outstanding dues, if any and other conditions laid down in

the letter under reference. It was revealed that Prof A.

Parakrama had indicated his willingness to withdraw his

letter of resignation. The Council was of the view that the

Council could consider his request, only if he withdraw his

letter ofresignation on or before 01.10.2009.

P12 informs the petitioner that his letter of resignation cannot be

accepted due to not been sent through the Head of Department but at the

same time informs him that:

" Your resignation has been accepted with effect from 1

st October 2009

by the Vice Chancellor in his letter dated 14th July 2009 and you have been

informed accordingly."

4

This letter which is marked as P7 is directly addressed to the

petitioner and not through the Head of Department and the Dean of the

Faculty. The positions taken by the respondents in addressing

correspondence clearly contradict each other. This amounts to an error

on the face of P12.

Clause 4:1 of the code lays down the special procedure for a

resignation but there is no such specific mode for a withdrawal of a

resignation. The only argument put forward in this regard by the

respondent is that it has to go through the proper channel which is not

stated anywhere. By this argument which has no merit the students of the

1st respondent, University has been deprived of a teacher in English, who

are hard to find these days.

When considering documents produced as P6, P7, PS, P12 and

P12B it appears that the respondents have acted irrationally. It is

presumed that public authorities are never empowered to exercise their

powers irrationally therefore irrational action by a public authority is

considered to be ultra vives.

In Lord Diplock's formal statement on Judicial review (Wade

Administrative Law describes irrationality 9th Ed. Pg. 1001) describes

irrationality in the following manner.

By 'irrationality' I mean what can by now be succinctly referred to as

'Wednesbury unreasonableness' (Associated Provincial Picture Houses Ltd. v. Wednesbury Corporation (1948) 1 KB 223). It applies to a decision

which is so outrageous in its defiance of logic or of accepted moral standards

that no sensible person who had applied his mind to the question to be decided

could have arrived at it. Whether a decision falls within this category is a

question that judges by their training and experience should be well equipped

5

to answer, or else there would be something badly wrong with our judicial

system. To justify the court's exercise of this, role, resort I think is today no

longer needed to viscount Radeli/le's ingenious explanation in Edwards v.

Bairstow (1956) AC 14 of irrationality as a ground for a court's reversal of a

decision by ascribing it to an inferred unidentifiable mistake of law by the

decision-maker. "Irrationality" by now can stand upon its own feet as an

accepted ground on which a decision may be attacked by judicial review.

After carefully considering the submissions of both parties and the

documents marked and the case law cited this court decides to allow the

application of the petitioner Prayers (b) and (c) of the petition are allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

Ani! Gooneratne J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

6