==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRILANKA

C A 1178 I 2000 (F) D.C. Marawila 807 I L

Wamakulasuriya Hubert Femando, Kolinjadiya, Wennappuwa.

Plaintiff

Vs.

1. W. Sebastian Femando, Pahala Katunariya, Katuneriya. 2. W. Fatima Merlin Femando, Galmalpandura Road, Pahala Katunariya, Katuneriya. 3. Noel Medit Femando Kolambage, 'lakmali', Kolinjadiya,

Wennappuwa.

Defendants

NOW BETWEEN

Wamakulasuriya Hubert Femando, Kolinjadiya, Wennappuwa.

Plaintiff Appellant

Vs.

1. W. Sebastian Femando, Pahala Katunariya, Katuneriya. 2. W. Fatima Merlin Femando, Galmalpandura Road, Pahala Katunariya, Katuneriya.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

2

3. Noel Medit Fernando Kolambage, 'lakmali', Kolinjadiya,

Wennappuwa.

Defendant Respondents

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

Dr. Sunil F.A. Cooray with M.U. Rajapaksa for the Plaintiff Appellant

Athula Perera with Chathurani De Silva for the 3 rd Defendant Respondent

1st and 2nd Defendant Respondents are absent and unrepresented

21.11.2012

29.05.2013

The Plaintiff Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant)

instituted an action against the 1st 2nd and 3rd Defendant Respondents (hereinafter

referred to as the Respondents) in the District Court of Marawila seeking inter alia

for a judgment that the property described in the schedule to the plaint was held by

the Respondents in trust for the benefit of the Appellant and the said property be

retransferred in the name of the Appellant. The 1st and 2nd Respondents have filed a

joint answer praying for a dismissal of the Appellant's action on the basis that they

have bought the land in dispute upon a deed of transfer. The 3rd Respondent by his

3

answer has prayed for a dismissal of the Appellant's action and for a declaration of

title to the land in suit.

The case proceeded to trial upon 16 issues. On 28.07.1998 the

Appellant's evidence in chief has been led and the trial has been adjourned for

further cross examination. When the case was taken up for further trial on

15.09.1998 the 1st 2nd and 3rd Respondents were absent and unrepresented.

Thereafter on an application made under Section 144 of the Civil Procedure Code

the learned District Judge has proceeded to deliver a judgment and by the said

judgment dated 02.11.1998 has dismissed the Appellant's action.

Although the learned District Judge in her judgment at page 122 of the

brief has stated that the Appellant's evidence was not adequate to prove the case, at

page 118 of the brief she has stated that "Accordingly it is apparent from the

evidence of the plaintiff that alleged loan has been obtained from one Alexander

and in lieu of the said loan a deed of transfer and a lease agreement have been

executed in the name of 1st and 2nd Defendants".

It is apparent from the evidence of the Appellant that in respect of the

land in suit a deed of transfer bearing No 3757 dated 07.03.1982 (P 1) and also a

lease agreement bearing No 3758 dated 07.03.1982 (P 2) had been executed in

favour of the 1st and 2nd Respondents by the appellant. Therefore it is an important

matter for the consideration of Court that why the Appellant executed a lease

agreement for the same land in addition to the deed of transfer. The Appellant in

his evidence has given a detailed description about the attendant circumstances he

compelled to execute the said conveyance and the lease agreement on the same

date. It seems that the learned District Judge has failed to consider the said parole

evidence in regard to a trust under Section 83 of the Trust Ordinance.

4

In the case of Dayawathie and Others Vs. Gunasekera and Others

(1991) 1 SLR 115 (SC) it was held that "The Prevention of Frauds Ordinance and

Section 92 of the Evidence Ordinance do not bar parole evidence to prove a

constructive trust and that the transferor did not intend to pass the beneficial

interest in the property. Extrinsic evidence to prove attendant circumstances can be

properly received in evidence to prove a resulting trust."

In the case of Premawathie Vs. Gnanawathie ( 1994) 2 SLR 171 G .P .S

de Silva CJ observed that "An undertaking to re-convey the property sold was by

way of a non-notarial document which is of no force or avail in law under section 2

of the Prevention of Frauds Ordinance. However the attendant circumstances must

be looked into as the plaintiff had been willing to transfer the property on receipt of

Rs. 6000/- within six months but could not do so despite the tender of Rs. 6000/-

within the six months as she was in hospital, and the possession of the land had

remained with the 1st defendant and the land itself was worth Rs. 15,000/-, the

attendant circumstances point to a constructive trust within the meaning of section

83 of the Trusts Ordinance. The "attendant circumstances" show that the 1st

defendant did not intend to dispose of the beneficial interest."

In the aforesaid circumstances I set aside the judgment of the

learned District Judge dated 02.11.2000 and allow the prayer 'a' of the petition of

appeal of the Appellant with cost. I accordingly order a re-trial. The learned

District Judge is directed to hear and conclude the case expeditiously.

Re-trial ordered.

Judge of the Court of Appeal