==== BLOCKS ==== 

. '

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA. (Writ) Application

No.174/2009

In the matter of an application under and in

Terms of Article 140 of the Constitution for

Mandates in the nature of Writs of Certiorari.

Don. Chaminda Padma Kumara Jayasekara

Kulasinghe,

"Kamini", Malliwatta,

lttapana.

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. Inspector General of Police,

Police Headquarters, Colombo-01.

2. Deputy Inspector General,

Administration,

Police Head Quarters, Colombo-01.

And four (04) others

RESipONDENTS.

1

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

JUDGMENT

DELIVERED ON:

Gooneratne, J.

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Deepali Wijesundera, J

Niroshana lgalahewa for Petitioner.

Yuresha Fernando SC for the Respondents

21.05.2013

28.06.2013

2

The Petitioner to this application is a person who joined the Sri

Lanka Police Force as a reserve force Sub Inspector on or about 1989, and later

absorbed into the regular force as a Sub Inspector on 25.06.1997 ( vide P!). A

writ of certiorari is sought to quash charge sheet P3 of 22.07.2003 and the

disciplinary order made against him marked P4 of 02.01.2006. Mandamus is

sought to place the petitioner in his due place accor:Hng to circular P8 and an

opportunity to afford the petitioner to sit the promotional examination as per sub

para 'e' of the prayer to the petition. In thP bodv of th: petition it is pleaded that

3

he had served the police force for about 19 years and had been serving in various

parts of the Island inclusive as officer in charge of crime branch of Police Station

Kalutara.

His grievance as described in the petition and as weU c:,s in the submission to this

Court by learned counsel was that around July 2001 whist serving as officer in

charge of crimes division of Kalutara South Police,. ~n investigating a murder

charge had taken into custody suspects and proc'u :ed before the Kalutara

Magistrate, on 16.09.2001. but had been subsequently discharged. One of the

suspects W.A.Dhanapala had filed a fundamenta~ right~ case { 584/01} against the

petitioner and some others on the basis that the s2id Dl,anapala was assaulted by

the petitioner and other police officers. Supreme Co·~~rt in the fundamental rights

application had held in favr:)ur of the above named Dl-!anapala and ordered the

petitioner to pay compensation as oleaded i'1 pcH'c 7 of the petition and the

corresponding affidavit of the petitioner. ( Copy of the judgment of the Supreme

Court or any other document not annexed by petitioner) Subsequently based on

the order of the Supreme Court three chargee:; were preferred against the

petitioner. {Vide para 8 of the petition and charge shP.et P3) Para 9 of the petition

4

states that order was delivered on 02.01.2006 findir.g the petitioner guilty of

charge Nos. 2 and 3 only. (P4}

Petitioners initial complaint of the above inquir·t (~1d the charge sheet is as

follows (as in para 10 of the petition)

a) According to Establishments Code Vol 7 r.har.t!?r 48 13:12 the " officer

conducting the preliminarv investigation should also draft the charge sheet

and forward it to the relevant authority .... "

b) However the OfficP. 1" who condur:ted tbe PrP-Iiminary iqvestigation

(Jayantha Kulathilak?) himself has signed the crarge sheet and that is in

violation of the procedure of Establishments Code Vol 2 chapter 48 13:12

and therefore the ch2rge sheet is irregu:

1ar and vr)id.

Petitioner avers that no sooner the Suprerre Ccurt order was delivered,

petitioner was indicted in the High Court ( vide !ndirtment P4}. Petitioner was

interdicted from service on 29.09.2005 (P6}. What is emphasized by the petitioner

is that he was acquitted by the High Court ( vide order P7) and more particularly

as in the judgment at P7, the above named DhanarJ?.ri=~ ·vVho was the petitioner in

5

the fundamental rights application had lied on oath to the Supreme Court, and

that for the reasons contained in para 14 of the petition the High Court Judge

acquitted the petitioner. By this the petitioner attemots to demonstrate that he

was incorrectly found guilt'/ for an alleged violation of a fundamental rights due

to false evidence provided by the said Dhanapala who was the petitioner in the

Fundamental Rights applicati :m before the Supreme Court. A~; such the petitioner

argues that the root cau~E~ ir the finC:fng the petiti8nr:·r guilty in the inquiry held

by the Police Department i5 without a basis and found t-:> be false.

Petitioner supports his entit'ement fc r promotions ·~Jith ref,~rence to circulars P8

and P9. In order to clar~fy the positions of the :>etitian?r, I would incorporatr the

following paras in the petition of the petitioner.

a) The Petitioner furtrer states trat 'NI-ti 1e he \l'lfac; in interdiction, by circular

number C/RTM 68 s~~veral promotions \Ner.? zr::Jnted to officers and that

inter alia the circular stat,:!d th2t ; SI~ who possess 8 years of active service

in the rank of 511 a~. :::t 31.12.2005 w·~re to be rromoted ~o the next higher

level w.e. f 06.02.2006, and further that if ~hos~ who have pending cases

will be kept in the reserve list and if at -~1-te condusion of the case they are

exonerated the promotion will ~J~~ effected fr0r1 r:lue date.

6

b) The Petitioner further states that although the date for above promotions

were 06.02.2006 he is aware that the promotions were given on

01.01.2006.

c) The Petitioner sa vs thP -efore that he i; entitled to the promotion

mentioned in P8 above as the h,; 'Na~ acquitted from aH charges on

14.11.2008 from the said High Court cased number 375/2004; and further

states that he now b1~cy~; a clean ~ecord, ~nd ~onsequently falls to the

category of Sll's who possessed S year-; c"f ?•:tiv£ !>ervice in a ran~~ by

31.12.2005 having been appointed to ~he 5tl ~"cmk in 25.06.1997 { as

evidenced from P2)

d) The Petitioner furthPr stCltes that bv circJiar rw"'lb~r ( IGP circular number

1999/2007 and officifll circular numb:.>r :7/2007} dated 13.06.2007, both

I.P.s and Sll of Police 'Nho have been confirmPd before 24.02.2006 and who

has completed 10 years of active dutv W(~re ':'il~

1 ed for application fo· the

promotion to Assistant Superinterden~ of Pol!c"

The Petitioner also plead that he a'Jpealed t.J the N.=1tional Police Commission

requesting for the promotion and increments hv letter P10. However the

7

outcome of the appeal is not known and or pleaded, in the petition filed of

record. The annexture "(5 '·'referred to in P10 is not forwarded to this Court.

The learned State Counsel referred to th~~ avernwt t:: in the affidavit of the 1st

respondent the Inspector General of Police <~l d the position of the

respondents. It was argued that the petitioner has failed to divulge material

facts including the fact that he did not have ;:~.·n uninterrupted period of

service. Document Rl is produced and th~s Court note the following facts,

pertaining to the petitioner, as disclosed in the affidavit of the J_st respondent.

a) Petitioner demobilized from service on 17.09.1990 due to an adverse

report against him in relation to Terrorist ::Jctivities.

b) reinstated in service on 01.02.1996. Petitioner not in service during

1990-1996.

c) served the reserve service only for 2 years.

d) Period of service in the regular farce is only 12 years of which 3 Yz

years, he was under interdiction.

As such State Counsel argues that the petitioner does not have a record of 19

years uninterrupted service.

8

At this point of this judgment having considered (a) to (d) above, we are of the

view that the petitioner has deliberately or mi~leadingly or otherwise not

disclosed to this Court the correct service record of the petitioner and he was

duty bound to give correct details irrespective of the remedy sought from

this Court. To thi:. extent there l." ,) an obvious willful

suppression/misrepresentation of mater1al facts. l rrespective of merits of the

application, Court could refuse the remedy sought .... So rigorous is the

necessity for a full disclosure of all material facts that the Court will not go

into the merits of the application but will dismiss it without further

examination. Per Pathirana, J in Alphonso Appuham? Vs Hettiarachchi 1973)

77 NLR 131,136. The words of Pathirana, J cited and followed by Marsoof, J in

Dhahanayake Vs Sri Lanka Insurance Corp ( 2005) l SLR 67.

Petitioner must be frank with the Court and must nrJt suppress material facts

or practice anything like deception. Per Sansoni. J Kandy Ominibus Co. Ltd Vs

Roberts 56 NLR 293, 304.

9

The position of the Respondents is that c;s per circular P8, ( which

petitioner does not possess) there is a requirernen t" of 8 years active service

and 5 years of unblemished record from the date on which application for the

said posts were closed.. The findings of the di:>ciplinary inquiry dated

02.01.2006 the petitioner would be disquallfiprf for consideration for

promotions. Further the petitioner does not have the basic requirements

according to circular P9. i.e 10 year~ service in th.:>. rank of Inspector of Police.

5 years unblemished service as a minimum criteria, and entails satisfactory

performance and a written Pxam and a viva-voce examination. This Court is

convinced that the petitioner does not come a1:1ywhere close to the

requirements in P9. As such the submissions of the respondent in this regard

cannot be doubted.

Respondent also urge that the disciplinary order and inquiry (

02.01.2006) remains unchallenged. Petitioner has failed to appeal from the

said order to the National Police Commission. ;.;though the petitioner has

produced PlO as observed above the annexture '' C5 " to plO had not been

produced along with the Detition. Thi~ could have been explained in the

counter affidavit of the p'::·titioner. Other thzt'l a mere denial of the

10

Respondents position, no attempt made to draw the attention of this Court to

the outcome of an inquiry, jf it was infact held by the National P .Aice

Commission. As such respondents position m this regard could not be

doubted. i.e petitioner has failed to appeal '":o the Police Commission.

Availability of aJternative remedy would in certain instances deprive a

petitioner for a prerogative writ. Appelhte procedure as established by law

being the ordinary procedure should be availed of before recourse is had to

the extraordinary Jurisdiction by W3Y of ludic!al n~·view as provided by article

140 of the Constitution.

In all the above circumst?.'1ces we are nJt inclineo to grant any relief to the

petitioner. FinaJly this Court observes that the findings of the High Court does

not in any way have the effect of over-riding or\' ·.:iating the findings of the

Supreme Court ( SC /FR 584/01) which is the apex Court. The High Court

which has criminal jurisdiction would adopt the proof of facts being proved

beyond reasonable doubt. A reasonable douht would demolish the

prosecution case. The S 1Jpren"~.e Court vvhich is t;~,p final apex Court in the

Island would in ' rights' cases proceed en the basis of a. just and equitable

standard. The High Court criminal standard of pl'C•r,f cannot override the at

any costs the just and equitable aspe,:t. In arriving at this decision to refuse

11

relief to the petitioner, the apparent delay in filing this application would be

ignored by this Court giving the benefit to the petitioner by his move ~u _get

acquitted in High Court proceedings. Nevertheless the other matters referred

to in this judgment would disentitle the Petitioner for the remedy sought by

way of prerogative writs. As such we dismiss this application without costs.

~dG"'~ J~e ~f the Court of [ppeal

Deepali Wijesundera. I

I agree.

~r::~

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Kpm/-