==== BLOCKS ==== 

l

1 I l i l ! I j

f '

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

C.A. (Writ) Application

No. 875/2010.

In the matter of an Application for Orders in

the nature of Writs of Certiorari and

Mandamus under and in terms of Article 140

of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist

Republic of Sri Lanka

Eliyathamby Nadesamoorthy,

Udayar Road,

Karaitivu- 02.

Vs.

(1) T. Asoka Peiris,

Secretary,

PETIONER

Ministry of Land, Land Development

Janawasa and Ranaviru Welfare,

Govijana Mandiraya,

80/5, Rajamalwatta Avenue,

Battaramulla.

And 3 others.

RESPONDENTS

t I I I l I i I

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued on

Decided on

S.Sriskandarajah, J,

2

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

Shymal A Collure,

for the Petitioner,

Anusha Samaranayake SSC

for the Respondents

16.03.2012

15.01.2013

The Petitioner submitted that he was recruited as a Class III Grade III officer of

the Sri Lanka Surveyors Service with effect from 20/10/1989. Subsequently, after a

probationary period of 3 years consisting of in-house training at the Institute of

Surveying and Mapping at Diyatalawa, as well as field training, he was confirmed in

the said post with effect from the afore stated date of appointment by letter dated

2/07/1993. The Petitioner submitted, as per the Service Minute, Class III Grade III

officers had to satisfy the requirements stipulated therein in order to be promoted to

Class III Grade II of the said service. The requirements are:

a) A Pass in the Diploma of Surveyor Technician (Advance Level) Examination

Conducted by the Institute of Surveying and Mapping, Diyatalawa;

b) Complete 5 years of satisfactory service from the date of recruitment.

The Petitioner submitted that upon satisfying the above requirements, he was

promoted to Class III Grade II of the said service with effect from 20/10/1994 by a

3

letter dated 26/06/1997. According to the Minutes of the said service, promotions

of officers to Class III Grade I was to be effected upon the satisfaction of the

following requirements:-

a) Completion of 9 years of satisfactory service after the salary point of

Rs.25,800/ -;or

b) Passing the Departmental Junior Professional Examination conducted by the

Surveyor-General or any other equivalent examination conducted by an

institution approved by the Surveyor-General.

The said Minutes also provide that when the officers reach an annual salary point of

Rs.36,600/- of Class III Grade II, and if their services had been satisfactory, they

could be considered as qualified for promotion to Class III Grade I.

The Petitioner submitted that by government notification published in the

Gazette Extraordinary No.1434/5 of 27/02/2006, the Service Minute was repealed by

the new Minute of the Sri Lanka Surveyors Services contained in the said gazette

notification, this came into effect on 1/08/2005, and the Surveyor's service according to

the new Minutes consist of the following classes or grades:-

(a) Selection Class;

(b) Class II;

© Class II Grade I, and

(d) Class II Grade II.

The said Minute provided that the passing of Class III/I, Class III/II, Class 111/111

I ! l j l I I I 'l l I I I l I t l l -; I .l I I

\

4

of the existing service and have passed the Junior Professional Examination in this

course of time and have completed 15 years of service, will be absorbed into Class II/II

on supernumerary basis. The said Minute also provides, if the Public Service

Commission is fully convinced that the implementation of provisions in the new

Minute has adversely affected the conditions of service of any officer to the extent that

the grant of option for retirement under Section 7 of the Minutes on Pensions is

justified. In such an event, such officer, on his own request can be allowed to exercise

his option for retirement during the period of 5 years with effect from 1/08/2005, the

date on which the provisions came into effect.

According to the new Survey Minute, the minimum requirement for the

recruitment of Class II Grade II of the said service was raised to a degree either in

survey science or physical science. The old recruits who were absorbed into Class II

Grade II were placed on a supernumerary basis. Accordingly the Petitioner was also

absorbed into Class II Grade II of the said service on supernumerary basis with effect

from 2/11/2006.

The Petitioner's complaint is that without converting the salaries of officers in

terms of the said restructuring of the service, he was placed on a salary point which is

about Rs.7,000/- less than most of those of his colleagues. As a result, his seniority too

was adversely affected. In those circumstances he made a request by letter dated

23/07/2009 that he be allowed to exercise his option for retirement from service in

terms of the Service Minute. The Petitioner's said request was turned down by the 2nd

Respondent Secretary to the Ministry of Land and Land Development on the basis that

the Petitioner would not be affected by the implementation of the provisions in the new

Service Minute. The Petitioner in this application is seeking a Writ of Certiorari to

quash the decision of the 1st and/ or the 2nd Respondent rejecting the Petitioner's request

to allow him to exercise his option for retirement in terms of the Minute. It is the

position of the Respondents that the request of the Petitioner for retirement under the

l ! l ! l

1 l l j l

1 I I l I l l

f I l

1 I ! l

t

5

said Service Minute was turned down as he was not adversely affected by the

implementation of the provisions in the new Minute, and the complaint of the

Petitioner that when the restructuring of the services had taken place, that he was

placed on a lower salary point which is about Rs.7,000/- less than those of most of his

colleagues was not based on the restructuring, but he has availed himself of no-pay

leave and due to the fact that he was on no-pay leave, he has lost his seniority, and that

contributed to the loss of the salary by Rs.7,000/ -. In those circumstances the Petitioner

is not entitled to the benefit granted under the Service Minute for the option of

retirement. The Petitioner's position is that he was on approved no-pay leave from

29/08/2000 to 4/09/2002 that the officers of the Survey Department had been informed

that availing one of such leave would not generally affect their seniority. In the

circumstances the Petitioner submitted that rejecting his request was unreasonable,

arbitrary and, therefore, it has to be quashed by a Writ of Certiorari. The Petitioner

further stated that disallowing his request to be allowed to exercise his option for

retirement under and in terms of the Service Minute are against his legitimate

expectations and, therefore, it is illegal and void.

The Respondents submitted that the request of the Petitioner to exercise his

option was dated 23rd of November 2009 and the 1st Respondent, by his letters dated

25th January 2010 and 23rd March 2010 rejected the request and appeal of the Petitioner

on the basis that the seniority of the Petitioner had been affected not by the provisions

of the Service Minute, but as a result of the period of no-pay leave obtained by him.

The Petitioner who did not possess a degree and who was in Class II Grade II at the

time the new Service Minute came into force was absorbed into Class II Grade II on a

supernumerary basis. This was done according to the Service Minute, but the seniority

of the Petitioner was brought down on the basis of his no-pay leave. Therefore, the

provisions under the Service Minute to the effect that the Public Service Commission is

fully convinced that the implementation of the provisions in the new Service Minute

have adversely affected his conditions of service or of any officer, that he could be

I l

I j ! I I I l I

~~

l j I

6

granted an option for retirement will not apply to the Petitioner as that the Petitioner

has not established that his conditions of service was adversely affected by the

implementation of the Service Minute. In those circumstances the Petitioner cannot

claim that he should be given an option for retirement under the said Service Minute

and, therefore, the Petitioner cannot have a legitimate expectation that he would be

granted permission to exercise his option, and the refusal of the said option is not illegal

or arbitrary and, in those circumstances, this Court dismisses this Application without

cost.

President of the Court of Appeal