==== BLOCKS ==== 

Page 1 of 4

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

In the matter of an Application for Bail under section 83 (2) of the Poisons, Opium and Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act No. 41 of 2022.

Hon. Attorney General, CA Case No: BAL/370/2023 Attorney General‟s Department, HC 1 - Colombo Colombo 12. Case No: HC 624/2019 Complainant Vs.

1. Mohomad Anvar Mohomad Ziyam

2. Nawasdeen Mohomad Zakir

3. Ratnayake Mudiyanselage Achala

Kumari

4. Wickramasinghe Arachchilage Don

Amarasiri alias Japan Chuti

Accused

And Now

Mohomad Anvar Mohomad Ziyam

1st Accused - Petitioner

Vs.

1. The Officer-in-Charge,

Colombo Crimes Division (CCD), Dematagoda. 2. Hon. Attorney General,

Attorney General‟s Department, Colombo 12.

Complainant -Respondents

Page 2 of 4

Before: R. Gurusinghe J.

&

M.C.B.S. Morais J.

Counsel: Punarji Karunasekara for the Petitioner.

Lakmini Girihagama, DSG for the Respondents.

Inquiry on: 18.03.2024

Decided On: 14.05.2024

M.C.B.S. Morais J.

The Petitioner is the Accused in the case bearing number HC 624/2019 in the High Court of

Colombo. It is apparent that the Accused was indicted for having in possession and

trafficking of Heroin 5947 grams and conspiring of aiding and abetting to traffic of heroin

5947 grams on or about between 01.03.2017 - 07.03.2017. It is apparent that, though the

Accused made a bail application before the Learned High Court Judge, it was refused by the

judge as there was no sufficient ground.

The Petitioner has made this application before us under section 83 of the Poisons, Opium

and Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act, No.41 of 2022. As for the provisions of section

83(2),

“83(2) notwithstanding the provisions of sections 84 and 85, a person suspected or

accused of an offence under subsection (1) of section 54A and section 54B-

(a) of which the pure quantity of the dangerous drug, trafficked, imported, exported,

or possessed is ten grams or above in terms of the report issued by the Government

Analyst under section 77A; and

(b) Which is punishable with death or life imprisonment, shall not be released on bail

except by the Court of Appeal in exceptional circumstances.”

Page 3 of 4

When applied in relation to the material before us, in paragraph 09 of the petition, the

Petitioner pleads certain grounds which are alleged as exceptional grounds and they are as

follows:

I. The case has not been taken up for trial for approximately 2 years from the date of

leading of witness number 1 reason beyond the control of the petitioner and keeping

the petitioner in the custody without a trial caused an exceptional ground to consider

bail.

II. The petitioner is denied the substance of a fair trial namely the right to an expeditious

trial by failing to take up the case for trial for nearly 2 years, causing an exceptional

ground to consider bail.

III. The petitioner‟s family members‟ right to a reasonable life has been denied by

keeping him in the custody for over 6 years without concluding the case against him

causing an exceptional ground to consider bail.

IV. The police B report is completely misleading on several facts specially the humble

and poor lifestyle of the petitioner who is a “Naatami” who lives with his family does

not match that of a Narcotic peddler or anyone related to Narcotic smuggling.

In addition to the above exceptional grounds, in paragraph „10‟ of the petition petitioner

pleads that the grounds mentioned in paragraphs 7 and 8 are also alleged as exceptional

grounds and they are as follows.

V. Though the case was called on various days, it was not taken up for trial reasons

beyond the control of the petitioner.

VI. All other suspects except himself got enlarged on bail and it would be unfair when the

petitioner alone is incarcerated for more than 6 years as of filing the petition.

However, the Petitioner has refrained from mentioning anything on the character of him

especially whether he has been convicted before, or whether he has any pending cases.

Though previous conviction has no bearing upon finding the guilt of the person the character

of the Accused is significant when it comes to the issue of bail.

A serious question arises as to the reason for nondisclosure especially in the light of

proceedings before us indicate that the Accused has had a previous conviction for a similar

offence.

Page 4 of 4

It is apparent that the Accused has been convicted for having in possession of 65 milligrams

of Heroin on 17th of May 2013. It is confirmed by page „356‟ of the High Court case record

marked and submitted as „X‟ by the petitioner.

As the Accused is also the Petitioner in this case, there is no possibility of him being unaware

of the said previous conviction.

Namunukula Plantations Limited V Minister of lands and Others SC Appeal No. 46/2008,

Saleem Marsoof J. stated that;

“If any party invoking the discretionary jurisdiction of a court of law is found

wanting in the discharge of its duty to disclose all material facts, or is shown to have

attempted to pollute the pure stream of justice, the court not only has the right but a duty to

deny relief to such person.

In other words, he owes a duty of utmost good faith (uberrima fides) to the court to

make a full and complete disclosure of all material facts and refrain from concealing or

suppressing any material fact within his knowledge or which he could have known by

exercising diligence expected of a person of ordinary prudence.”

As the Petitioner has breached his paramount duty of disclosing the relevant, I am of the view

that the Petitioner does not deserve the reliefs prayed for, hence without proceeding to

consider the merits on exceptional circumstances, this application for Bail is refused in

limine.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

R. Gurusinghe J.

I agree

Judge of the Court of Appeal