==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 744/2000 F

D.C. Kalutara No. 6138/ P

Mohamed Salley Beebee Seinam, No 52, Mosque Road, Kalutara South.

And 07 others.

Plaintiffs

Vs.

Mohamed Amanullah Fathima Naseema No 52, Mosque Road, Kalutara South.

And 01 other.

Defendants

AND NOW BETWEEN

Mohamed Salley Beebee Seinam, No 52, Mosque Road,

Kalutara South.

And 07 others.

Plaintiff Appellants

Vs.

Mohamed Amanullah Fathima Naseema No 52, Mosque Road, Kalutara South.

Defendant Respondents

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

2

UP AL Y ABEYRA THNE, J.

Sanjeewa Dasanayake for the Plaintiff

Appellants

M.S.A. Wadood with Taranga Edirisuriya

and Charitha Kulasinghe for the Defendant

Respondents.

05.11.2013

29.01.2014

1 st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th th and 8th Plaintiff Appellants (hereinafter referred

to as the Appellants) have preferred the instant appeal seeking to set aside the

judgment of the learned additional District Judge dated 19.09.2000. During the

pendency of this appeal the Appellants filed an application for substitution and

brought to the notice of this Court that the 6th Plaintiff Appellant has died prior to

the pronouncement of the judgment in the District Court and the learned Trial

Judge has delivered the judgment without effecting the substitution in place of the

deceased 6th Plaintiff Appellant. The learned counsel for the Appellants submitted

that in terms of the decisions of the Supreme Court said judgment is rendered a

nullity and case should be sent back to the District Court to effect the substitution

in place of the deceased 6th Appellant.

The learned counsel for the Respondents submitted that since the

Appellants have already made an application to the Court of Appeal if the deceased

\ I ,

t I

3

6th Appellant's heirs are substituted by the Court of Appeal no prejudice would be

caused to any of the parties and the appeal could be heard and concluded.

I observed that the 6th Plaintiff Appellant has died on 26.05.1999

(vide: death certificate bearing No. 3041 dated 26.05.1999) and the judgment has

been delivered on 19.09.2000. When I consider the said facts it seems to me that in

terms of the decision given in Munasinghe and Another vs. Mohamed Jabir Navaz

Carim [1990] 2 SLR 163 the judgment referred to above is rendered a nullity. In

the case of Karunawathie vs. Piyasena and others [2011] 1 SLR 172 at 177 the

Supreme Court observed that "When a party to a case had died during the

pendency of that case, it would not be possible for the court to proceed with that

matter without appointing a legal representative of the deceased in his place. No

sooner a death occurs of a party before court, his Counsel loses his position in

assisting court as long with the said death and without any substitution he has no

way of obtaining instruction"

In the light of the said authorities I make order that this case be

remitted back to the District Court of Kalutara for the purpose of effecting the

substitution in place of the deceased 6th Plaintiff Appellant. The 6th Appellant has

died after the conclusion of the evidence and submissions of both parties. Hence I

am of the opinion that the district court is entitled to pronounce the same judgment

afresh. Therefore the present District Judge of Kalutara is directed to redeliver the

judgment dated 19.09.2000 after taking the steps for substitution. The judgment of

the District Court would stand and the case would proceed from that point onwards

and an appeal could be preferred from the said judgment. The parties should bear

their own costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal