==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPOEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA. CA N0.293/2006 HC.Colombo Case No.1280/03

Galbokka Hewage Noyel Wijaya de Silva No. 18, 5th Lane, Nelum Pura South, Rathmalana.

Accused-Appellant -Vs- Hon. Attorney General Attorney-General's Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

CA 293/2006 HC Colombo 1280/2003

BEFORE Anil Gooneratne, J. &

COUNSEL

ARGUED &

DECIDED ON

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne, J.

G.P.J. Silva for the Accused-appellant.

Jayantha Jayasuriya ASG, PC with Haripriya

Jayasundera DSG for the AG.

01.07.2014

ANIL GOONERATNE, J.

Learned counsel for the accused-appellant submits to Court that the

accused-appellant was indicted on three counts. The Count No. 01 is

based on robbery. The 2nd Count is a charge of murder and the 3rd

Count is a charge of rape. The Accused-appellant was convicted on all

three Counts and sentenced as follows.

On the charge of Robbery the accused-appellant was sentenced to 07

years Rigorous Imprisonment. As regard the charge of murder he was

convicted and sentenced to death. As regard the charge of rape the

accused-appellant was sentenced to 07 years rigorous imprisonment

and a fine of Rs. 10,000/-. Learned Counsel also submits to this Court

that this was a trial by Jury and in particular refers to the proceedings

at page 85 and 87 of the brief. It was the position of the Defence-

Counsel that the prosecution witness No.2, the mother of the deceased,

1

,rII

1II!IfI

J

II

rr[

i I •t

I;

Ili

being questioned had given the answer that she came to know that it

was the accused-appellant who committed the act of murder. However,

the question and answer has not been recorded. When this matter was

raised by learned defence-Counsel, it was the position of the learned

High Court Judge that he could recollect that the prosecution witness

No.2 had given such an answer. i.e. that the witness uttered the words

that she came to know it was the accused who committed the act of

murder. All these matters have been recorded at page 88 of the brief

and the learned High Court Judge's order on above is at page 89. As at

the time these objections and submissions were made, the Jury was

asked to retire and subsequent to making the order by the learned High

Court Judge the Jury again assembled in Court and High Court Judge

directed that the trial should proceed from that point on wards.

It is the position of both learned Counsel for the Accused-appellant as

well as the learned Additional Solicitor General that Jury should have

been cautioned of the above matters prior to commencing the trial as

well as in the trial Judges summing up such matters should have been

told to the Jury and there is a duty cast on the trial Judge to caution

the Jury as stated above. Both learned Counsel indicate to Court that

such a direction has not been given by the learned Trial Judge to the

Jury. As such, a grave prejudice is caused to the accused-appellant by

the above non-direction to the Jury. In the above circumstances, it is

the position of the learned Additional Solicitor General that the

accused-appellant did not have a proper fair trial. Therefore, this Court

proceeds to set aside the conviction and sentence imposed by the

learned trial Judge and send the case back for re-trial. In view of the

fact that the offence has been committed in the year 1998 we direct the

2

II I ! tr!

Ii IlI

t

learned High Court Judge to expedite the trial and dispose of this case

as soon as possible.

Registrar is directed to forward all the productions to the relevant High

Court namely, High Court of Colombo forthwith.

Case is send back for re-trial.

~dsl>J~~ JUixJ J TH~: APPEAL

W.M.M. MaUnie Gunaratne, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

KRLj-

3

IIIIIIi !

I

iIl