==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I

,/

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA 403/99 F

DC Colombo-8483 MPH

Sandhya Kanthi Ratnaweera,

82/1, Galmaduwa Road,

Kundasale

1 ST DEFENDANT APPELLANT

Vs.

Mercantile Credit Private Limited,

55, Janadhipathi Mawatha,

Colombo -1

PLAINTIFF-RESPONDENT

Subramaniam Palanisamy,

Radha Textiles,

58, Colombo Street,

Kandy.

1ST DEFENDANT-RESPONDENT

AND ANOTHER

tf tI f

~ r ) !t II! I i

j

J

2

Before: AWA Salam, J

Counsel : D H Siriwardena with Sarath Weerakoon for the 1 st

defendant-appellant.

Argued on: 14.11 2012

Decided on : 16.1.2013

A WA SALAM, J

This appeal arises from the judgment of the district court of Colombo

delivered in a suit concerning a hire purchase agreement. The plaintiff-

respondent entered into a hire purchase agreement with the first

defendant-appellant and the 2nd and 3rd defendant-respondents are the

guarantors of the said agreement of hire purchase entered into between

the plaintiff-respondent and the first defendant-appellant.

The hire purchase agreement entered into between the main parties

was produced at the trial marked as P2. By the said agreement the 1st

defendant-appellant took on hire from the plaintiff-respondent a vehicle

upon the initial payment of Rs.35/- and on the undertaking that he

would pay the monthly rental thereafter every month as agreed in

terms of the hire purchase agreement. The 2nd and 3rd defendant-

respondents guaranteed the said payment and further undertook to pay

the same by themselves in the event of the 1st defendant-appellant

making default of the payments has undertaken by him.

The 1st defendant-appellant having defaulted to pay the rentals has

agreed, the plaintiff-respondent had terminated the hire purchase

agreement and sued all three defendants in the same action. At the

I(IIII

rt , I, I I

II,

I f i I f I

1

f

t

I ! I I I I I I

3

conclusion of the trial the learned district judge held inter alia that the

plaintiff is entitled to succeed in his action against all three defendants.

The main defence was that the hire purchase agreement in question had

been signed in Kandy and therefore, the court had no jurisdiction to

entertain the plaint as the agreement sought to be enforced was made

outside the jurisdiction of the district court of Colombo. The learned trial

judge having carefully considered the evidence answered the issues

relating to the jurisdiction in favour of the plaintiff. He rejected the

contention that the agreement had been signed in Kandy. It is quite

evident from the agreement subscribed to by all three defendants that it

had been signed in Kandy.

The other question raised in the appeal was that the judgment is not in

conformity with Section 187 of the Civil Procedure Code. On a reading of

the judgment, I am not inclined to accept the argument that the

judgment is contrary to Section 187 of the Civil Procedure Code.

For the above reasons, the appeal preferred by the 1st defendant-

appellant stands dismissed subject to costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

NR/-

I

I

t

~ I•,IIIII1 • ,

I

}

JI