==== BLOCKS ==== 

I 1 I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL

OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

A.L.A.Ahamed Lebbe Ovitigama, Pugoda.

(Deceased Defendant)

lA. Ahamed Lebbe Abuhaneefa

Substituted lA Defendant-Petitioner-Appellant

And others C.A.No.1 194/2000(F) D.C.GAMPAHA CASE NO.24537/L

Vs.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Mohamed Ali Abdul Wadood Ovitigama, Pugoda.

(Deceased Plaintiff)

lA. Mohammed Ashraff

Mohammed Aswer

Substituted lA Plaintiff-

Respondent-Respondent

And others

2B. Ahamed Lebbe Siththi Thamna Substituted 2B Defendant-Respondent-Respondent

And others

K. T .CHITRASIRI, J.

Ikram Mohamed P.C.with S.Weeraratne for the Substituted lA Defendant-Petitioner-Appellant

Rasika Dissanayake with Chandrasiri Wanigapura

for the Su bstitu ted -Plain tiff-Responden t -Responden ts

1

f

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN

SUBMISSIONS FILED ON

DECIDED ON

CHITRASIRI, J.

26.03.2014

29th April 2014 by Substituted 1A & 2A Plaintiff-Respondent-Respondents

29th May 2014 by Substituted 1A -Defendant-Petitioner-Appellant

11.06.2014

This is an appeal preferred by Substituted 1A Defendant-Petitioner-

Appellant seeking to set aside the order dated 21.11.2000 and the judgment

dated 04.06.1992 of the learned District Judge of Gampaha. Even though the

appellant, in the petition of appeal has stated that it is the order dated

27.11.2000 of the learned District Judge that he seeks to set aside, the correct

date should have been 21.11.2000. No order had been made on 27.11.200. He

has mentioned the date correctly, in the notice of appeal. Hence, it may have

been a typographical error to mention the date of the order as 27.11.2000 in the

petition of appeal. Therefore, it is necessary to note that the appellant by filing

this appeal, among other things, is challenging the order dated 21.11.2000.

In the petition of appeal, the appellant also has sought to have the

judgment dated 04.06.1992 vacated and to have the action of the plaintiff

dismissed. However, setting aside the judgment dated 04.06.1992 and the

application to have the action dismissed, as sought by the appellant would

2

II

,

I I I I I I

J

depend on the decision to be arrived at, by this Court in respect of the order

dated 21.11.2000. By which order, the learned District Judge dismissed the

petition dated 17.9.1982 filed by the appellant in order to have the ex parte

decree dated 04.06.1992, vacated. Learned District Judge in his order dated

21.11.2000, while refusing to accept the reasons given by the appellant for the

absence of the defendants on the date ftxed for further trial namely 4.6.1998,

decided that the defendant-petitioners have failed to establish "reasonable

grounds" for the failure to appear in the District Court on 04.06.1992.

The way in which the applications are to be presented to purge the default

and the manner, such an application should be considered is stipulated In

Section 86(2) of the Civil Procedure Code. The said Section reads thus:

((86(2) Where, within fourteen days of the service of the decree entered

against him for default, the defendant with notice to the plaintiff makes

application to and thereafter satisfies court, that he had reasonable

grounds for such default, the court shall set aside the judgment and decree

and permit the defendant to proceed with his defence as from the stage of

default upon such terms as to costs or othenvise as to the court shall appear

proper."

Counsel for the respondents submitted that the substituted 1A defendant-

petitioner-appellant has failed to file the application to have the judgment

vacated within the stipulated period of time, as mentioned in the aforesaid

Section 86(2) of the Civil Procedure Code. The law requires to have such an

application made within 14 days of the service of the decree entered against the

3

!

ifII! I! III

F

~ ) !If

person who makes such an application. Admittedly, the impugned order had

been made on 21.11.2000. The document 801 which is the report of the process

server shows that the decree was served on the defendants on 31.8.1998. The

said document had been admitted to in evidence without any objection being

taken. Therefore, it is clear that acceptable evidence is forthcoming to establish

the date on which the decree had been served.

Learned President's Counsel when he made oral submissions before this

Court submitted that the petitioner-appellant did not receive the decree entered

in this case though he has filed an application to have it vacated. The appellant

in his evidence also has stated that he was not served with such a decree. Then

the question arises as to the person who is coming out with the truth in

connection with serving of the decree; whether he is the appellant or the process

server who filed the document marked CiO 1.

At this stage, it is necessary to note that the appellant has failed to

mention the fact, that he did not receive the decree in his petition filed, to have

the decree vacated. If the evidence of the appellant as to the non-serving of the

decree is correct, he could have mentioned so, in the application he made under

Section 86(2) of the Civil Procedure Code in order to have the ex parte decree

vacated. He is completely silent on that point. Why was he so silent as to the

non-service of the decree if it is true. Obviously, if he did mention the date of

service of the decree in his application, then it would have been rejected at the

4

1

tI

~

r,!I

fI ! i t IIt It f f!1i i i

JI[

f. !II,

very outset. It may have been the reason for the 1A defendant-petitioner-

appellant not to disclose the date of service of the decree.

On the other hand, the document marked CiOI had gone in evidence

without any objection been taken. (vide proceedings at page 108 in the appeal

brief) Therefore, this Court cannot reject the evidence contained in the said

report (CiOl) which is in the form of an affidavit, affirmed to by the process

server. After all, he is an officer of Court. Moreover, the appellant has not taken

steps to contradict the contents of the report of the process server at least by

calling him to the witness box.

In the circumstances, I am not inclined to accept the mere denial by the

appellant as to the service of the decree on the substituted defendants. Hence, I

accept the evidence contained in the document marked CiOI with regard to the

date of service of the decree. Accordingly, it is my opinion that the decree

entered in this case had been served on the appellant on 31.8.1998.

As mentioned before, in terms of Section 86(2) of the Civil Procedure Code,

an application to purge the default shall be made within 14 days of the service of

the decree. When the date of service of the decree is 31.8.1998, the application

under Section 86(2) of the Civil Procedure Code should have been made within

14 days therefrom. Admittedly, the application to purge the default in this case

had been made on 18.09.1998. It is a date that falls beyond the period stipulated

in Section 86(2) of the Civil Procedure Code. In the circumstances, it is clear

5

!

fI

!I !III

!ttIII

ttIIl

~ II" ~

that the appellant has filed the application to purge the default outside the

period allowed in law.

Then the question arises whether it is mandatory or not, to follow the time

frame stipulated in Section 86(2) of the Civil Procedure Code when an

application under the said Section 86(2) is made in order to have an ex parte

decree vacated. In the case of Ceylon Brewery Limited vs. Jax Fernando [200

(1) S.L.R. 270] it was held that:

"Section 86(2} of the Civil Procedure Code confers jurisdiction on the

District Court to set aside a default decree. Hence the period of 14

days provided by that section to make an application to set aside a

default decree is mandatory."

In that decision, His Lordship Justice Mark Fernando J stated as follows:

"It is settled law that provisions which go to jurisdiction must be strictly

complied with".

Furthermore, in the case of Fernando v. Sybil Fernando and another, [1997

(3) S.L.R. at page 1] it was held thus by Dr.Aamarasinghe J.:

"There is the substantive law and there is the procedural law.

Procedural law is not secondary. The two branches are

complementary. The maxim ubi ius, ibi remedium reflects the

complementary character of civil procedure law. The two

branches are also interdependent. Halsbury (ibid.) points out

that the interplay between the two branches often conceals

what is substantive and what is procedural. It is by procedure

that the law is put into motion, and it is procedural law which

6

II

~ II,!

I1I

fI,t

~ ,I,I

I ! I

JI,

f' I II I! i, !IiI•

f

puts life into substantive law, gives its remedy and effectiveness

and brings it into being".

In the case of Wijesekera v. Wijesekera and others [2005 (1) S.L.R. at

page 58] it was held thus"

"It is to the best interest of the administration of justice that judges

should not ignore or deviate from the procedural law and decide

matters on equity and justice".

In the circumstances, it is clear that it had always been held that it is

mandatory to adhere to the fourteen day period referred to in Section 86(2) in the

Civil Procedure Code when filing an appeal. The appellate courts do not have

discretion to have it waived considering the merits of each case. Accordingly, the

learned District Judge should have dismissed this application made under

Section 86(2) of the Civil Procedure Code on that ground even ex mero motu.

However, the learned President's Counsel in his oral submissions argued

that the issue as to the delay in filing the application to purge the default cannot

be raised for the first time at this appeal stage since it was not taken up in the

Court below. Hence, he was of the view that the respondents are now estopped

from taking up such a position since they have waived it off.

It is trite law that a pure questions of law can always be taken up m

appeal. It had been clearly held so, in the decisions referred to herein below.

7

tII!I

,< i iII I

~ i

IIi

tIIrI

• Talagala Vs. Gangodawila Co-operative Store Society;

[48 N. L. R. 472]

• Jayawickrema Vs. David Silva;

[76 N.L.R. at 427]

• Dassanayake Vs. Eastern Produce and Estates Co. Ltd.

[1986 (1) S.L.R. at 258]

The issue before Court is basically the period, within which an application

to have the decree vacated should be presented in terms of Section 86(2) of the

Civil Procedure Code. It has nothing to do with the facts of the case. The above

authorities show that such a question of law could always be taken up in appeal

though it was not considered in the lower court. Therefore, I am not inclined to

agree with the contention of the learned President's Counsel on that point.

In the circumstances, it is clear that the appellant has failed to comply

with the mandatory requirement mentioned in Section 86(2) of the Civil

Procedure Code when he filed the application to have the ex parte decree

vacated. Hence, the said application of the petitioner-appellant is rejected and

accordingly this appeal also is rejected.

Learned President's Counsel for the appellant in his written submissions

has extensively adverted to the issue on the question of "reasonable grounds"

that should have been shown by the petitioner who made the application under

Section 86(2) to have the ex parte decree vacated. Having looked at the evidence

of the appellant and of his son, I too believe that they have come up with

8

IIIt 1i

II

I .' ~ I!! I

sufficient "reasonable grounds" to purge the default as decided m

Rev.Sumanatissa v. Harry [2009 (1) S.L.R. at page 31] and Chandrawathie v.

Dharmaratne. [2002 (1) S.L.R. at page 43] I also agree that the Courts should

extend a liberal attitude and give flexible interpretations to the words

"reasonable grounds" found in Section 86(2) in the Civil Procedure Code.

Unfortunately, this Court is not in a position to look at those

circumstances which prevented the substituted defendants attending Court on

04.06.1998 because the petitioner-appellant has not come to Court within the

stipulated period of time mentioned in Section 86)2) of the Civil Procedure Code.

Even the merits of the main action filed by the deceased-plaintiff cannot be

examined for the same reason though the learned President's Counsel has

adverted to such facts too, in the submissions he has filed on behalf of the

appellant.

For the aforesaid reasons, this appeal is dismissed. Considering the

circumstances of the case, I make no order as to the costs of this appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

9

II

i I

1[ I ,, r I1II

t

\I

tIf

\ iI i ! III