==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Hewa Pathiranage Siriwimala Pathirana Baduwatta, Bowana, Thorayaya.

Substituted-Plaintiff-Appellant

Horatal Pedige Durayalage Dharmadasa Mutthetugala, Kurunegala.

(Deceased Plaintiff)

C.A.N0.258/98 (F) D.C.KURUNEGALA CASE N0.3326/P

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

.DECIDED ON

Vs.

1. Dewata Tejjalage Mohotha Gattuwana, Kurunegala

And 18 others

Defendant-Respondents

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J.

Dr.Sunil Cooray for the Substituted-Plaintiff-Appellant

Nilantha Kumara with Yases de Silva, Attorneys-at-Law

for the 18th & 19th Defendant - Respondents

25th MARCH 2013

07th MAY 2013

I

2

CHITRASIRI, J.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the judgment dated 19.12.1997 of the learned

District Judge of Kurunegala. In that judgment, an application to partition the land referred to

in the schedule to the plaint dated 17.11.1967 had been refused by the learned trial judge and

accordingly the case filed by the plaintiff-appellant (hereinafter referred to as the plaintiff)

was dismissed. The said dismissal of the action had been basically on the basis that the land

to which the plaintiff claims title is a distinct and separate land with clear boundaries

containing a specific extent.

However, the contention of the learned Counsel for the appellant is that the land

referred to in the plaint is a eo-owned land though the title of the plaintiff is to a separately

identified land with a specific extent. He therefore submitted that it is incorrect to dismiss the

plaint on the aforesaid basis that the title of the plaintiff set out in the plaint is to a specific

and distinct land.

It is trite law that a party cannot seek to have a land partitioned, if it does not belong to

in common. This position is clearly stated in Section 2 of the Partition Law No.21 of 1977.

The said Section 2 of the Partition Law stipulates thus:-

"where any land belongs in common to two or more owners anyone or more of them may institute an action for the partition or sale of the land in accordance with the provision of this Law".

According to the averments in the plaint, the land referred to in the schedule thereto is a

eo-owned land. Share claimed by the plaintiff from the said land referred to in the schedule to

the plaint derives from three deeds bearing Nos.3644, 24695 & 3923 marked as P16, P17 &

p 18 in evidence. Title of the plaintiff had derived from the said three deeds, is to a particular

3

land with distinct boundaries having a specific extent and also had been identified with

reference to a plan [Plan No.998 dated 22.6.1953] made long before the action was filed.

Learned District Judge depending on those circumstances had dismissed the action stating

that it is not necessary for the plaintiff to continue with this action as his land can be

identified separately. Then the issue before this Court is to determine whether the plaintiff,

being an owner to a distinct and separate land, could maintain this action in order to partition

the land described in the schedule to the plaint.

The plaintiff, having accepted that he has title to a defined and distinct land shown with

reference to a plan, had filed this case to partition a land in extent of Two Acres One Rood

and Thirty Four Perches which extent is much more than the extent that he is entitled to. The

land sought to be partitioned is depicted in the preliminary Plan bearing No.3148 dated

2.6.1969 drawn by Stanley T.Gunasekera, which is in extent of 2 Acres 1 Rood and 34

Perches. The plaintiff in his evidence has stated that the land he had purchased falls within

the land sought to be partitioned. The said evidence of the plaintiff had not been

controverted. Therefore, it is seen that the land to which the plaintiff claims title falls within

the corpus. Unfortunately, this fact has not been adverted to by the learned District Judge.

He, having stated that the plaintiff was unable to describe the boundaries and the plantation

found on the land sought to be partitioned has decided that the identity of the corpus had not

been established. Having concluded so, learned District Judge had dismissed the action on the

basis that it is not necessary to have a partition since the plaintiff's land could easily be

identified.

As described above, the land to which the plaintiff claims title falls within the corpus.

Accordingly, his claim is to a particular share out of the corpus though his title is to a distinct

and separate land. Also, it must be noted that the title of the plaintiff had derived from a

4

person by the name ofKalla Veda (paragraph 3 of the plaint). In paragraphs 28 and 29 of the

Statement of Claim filed by the 5th to 1Oth, 12th, 14th, 18th and 19th defendant respondents also

has stated that Kalla Veda became entitled to 3/4th share of the land sought to be partitioned

by deeds bearing Nos.53725 and 21952. Accordingly, it is clear that the devolution of title

shown by the opposing parties also refers to one and the same land. Moreover, it must be

mentioned that no person is prevented from purchasing a land with specific boundaries and

specific extents from a larger land becoming a eo-owner to that larger land, as occurred in

this instance.

In the circumstances, it is clear that the land sought to be partitioned is owned by more

than one person at the time that this action was filed. Therefore, merely because the title

claimed by the plaintiff refers to a specific land, this action could not have been defeated.

Therefore, it is my considered view that the learned District Judge misdirected himself when

he dismissed the action on the basis that the title of the plaintiff is to a specific block of land.

In the circumstances, I make order directing the learned District Judge of Kurunegala to

have a re-trial and to deliver judgment accordingly. However, if it is possible, learned Trial

Judge may consider adopting the evidence already recorded and to take necessary steps

thereafter, as this action had been pending for nearly five decades. Learned District Judge is

also directed to conclude this case expeditiously.

For the aforesaid reasons this appeal is allowed. I make no order as to the costs of this

appeal.

Appeal allowed without costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL