==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COUT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A. Appeal No.331/2007 H.C. Kurunegala No.230/01

Dissanayake Mudiyanselage Jayasiri

Accused- Appellant Vs. The Hon. Attorney General Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

f i

I I ! i i

C.A.Appeal No.331/2007 H.C.Kurunegala No.230/01

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

Sisira J. de Abrew, J. &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J.

Indika Mallawarachchi for the Accused-Appellant.

HaripriyaJayasundera DSG for A/G.

14.11.2013

Sisira T. de Abrew, T

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted for the murder of a

woman named Tellemulle Hettiarachchige Dulani Shiromala and was sentenced

to death. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence, he has

appealed to this Court. Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as follows:-

On the day of the incident around 10.15 a,m. the deceased

woman(Shiromala) was bringing pot of water to her house. At this time she

was accompanied by her brother Janaka Premalal. Janaka Premalal was going

ahead of Shiromala. On hearing certain words uttered by Shiromala, Janaka

Premalal looked back. Then he saw the accused-appellant hacking Shiromala

1 i f IIt

with a manna knife. In fear of being attacked, he ran to his house. On hearing

the cries of Janaka Premalal and Shiromala, their mother Gnanawathie came out

and then saw the accused-appellant straightening himself up after attacking

Shiromala with a manna knife. According to the medical evidence there were

five cut injuries. Two injuries were on the back of the head. One inquiry had

severed the spinal code. Janaka Premalal had made a prompt statement to the

police. When the police visited the scene, the investigating officer found a pot of

water fallen at the scene. He also observed that the water had got spilt from the

pot. There were blood stains at the scene. Thus the story of the prosecution is

corroborated by the police observation. The accused-appellant made a dock

statement. His dock statement may be briefly summarized as follows:-

"When the accused-appellant was pruning his hedge, Janaka Premalal

and deceased woman who were passing the place threatened him with

death saying you all will be killed. They also came to squeeze the neck of

his child. At this time Premalal attacked with a club."

Learned Counsel for the accused-appellant contended that the accused-

iC appellant had not taken up position that Premalal attacked him. But when we

A

read the dock statement it is clear that his position had been that Premalal

attacked him with a club. According to the evidence led at trial the accused-

appellant had not sustained any injury. The position taken up by Premalal in

his evidence was that the son of the accused-appellant was not at this place. But

2

I

i I !

I

i! ftIf ! f !!I I,

! I l ,

in the evidence given at the inquest he has admitted that son of the accused-

V-- appellant was near the house. This has been marked as~. In our view this

1\ contradiction is not a vital contradiction.

Learned Defence Counsel had suggested that the witness Janaka Premalal

and the deceased woman threatened to squeeze the neck of the son of the

accused-appellant. This had been denied by the witness. Witness Premalal had

further taken up the position that the son of the accused-appellant was not at the

scene of offence. As I pointed out earlier the accused-appellant had not

sustained injuries although he claims that he was attacked with a club. When we

consider all the above matters we hold that the rejection of the dock statement of

the accused-appellant by the learned trial Judge is correct. We hold that the dock

statement cannot be believed and is not capable of creating any reasonable doubt

in the prosecution case.

Learned Counsel appearing for the accused-appellant contended that the

learned trial Judge has committed certain misdirections. Learned trial Judge in

his judgment has observed that the deceased woman squeezed the neck of the

son of the accused-appellant. But there is no such evidence to conclude that the

deceased woman squeezed the neck of he son of the accused-appellant. He had

made this observation when considering the dock statement of the accused-

appellant. Learned trial Judge had also in his judgment observed that the

3

accused-appellant chased after the deceased. There is no such evidence. The

evidence is that the accused-appellant had chased after Premalal.

If When we consider the evidence let at the trial, we are of the opinion that ~ ~

the said misdirection committed by learned trial Judge has not caused any

prejudice to the accused-appellant. Learned trial Judge has observed that if the

accused-appellant takes up any exception or special exception he should prove

it. Learned Counsel for the accused-appellants contends that the decree of

burden of proof has not been stated by the learned trial Judge. She therefore

contends that this was a misdirection. When considering this argument it is

relevant to consider Illustration 'b' of the Section 105 of the Evidence Ordinance

which reads as follows:-

.r " A, accused of murder, allege" that, by grave and sudden provocation, he

A.. has deprived of the power of self control. The burden of proof is on A"

It is well settled law that if an accused person raises exception or special

exception as a plea the burden is on him to prove it on a balance of probability.

The said Illustration under Section 105 of the Evidence Ordinance clearly proves

this position. Thus when the learned trial Judge made the said observation, in

my view, he has not committed any misdirection. I therefore reject the

contention of the learned Counsel for the accused-appellant.

4

II

~iIIi

tfIII

~ I I (f If t I I f t t , ! ! f I

t

{ 1 , I

I

Learned Counsel contended that the learned trial Judge had erred by

applying the dictum of Lord Ellenborough. The prosecution in this case has put

forward very strong case. Therefore when the learned trial Judge observed that

Ellenborough's dictum applied to the facts of this case he has not committed any

misdirection. I therefore reject the submission of learned Counsel.

Learned Counsel contended that the learned trial Judge had considered

certain matters that had not been led in evidence. Learned trial Judge had

observed that the matters set out in dock statement are contrary to the position

taken up by him at the non summary inquiry. It appears that the accused had

not given any evidence at the non summary inquiry. Thus it appears to be

a misdirection on the part of the learned trial Judge. But when we consider the

evidence led at the trial, this misdirection has not caused any prejudice to the

accused-appellant. We therefore decide to apply the Proviso to Section 334 of

the Criminal Procedure Code which reads as follows:-

"provided that Court may, notwithstanding that it is of opinion that the

point raised in the appeal might be decided in favour of the appellant

dismiss the appeal if it considers that no substantial miscarriage of justice

has actually occurred."

We have considered the evidence led at the trial. We are of the opinion

that the misdirectio5 committed by the learned trial Judge have not occasioned

"

5

! 1 1 1

any miscarriage of justice or failure of justice. When we consider the evidence

led at the trial, we are of the opinion that the prosecution has proved its case

beyond reasonable doubt. We hold that there is no any merit in this appeal. For

the above reasons we affirm the conviction and death sentence imposed on the

accused-appellant and dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C.Tayathilake, T.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

KLP/-

6