==== BLOCKS ==== 

CA/HCC/335/25

1 | P a g e

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an Appeal made under

Section 331(1) of the Code of Criminal

Procedure Act No.15 of 1979 read with

Article 138 of the Constitution of the

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

Lanka.

Court of Appeal Case No. Rathnayake Arachchige Damith

CA/HCC/0335/2025 Sankalpa

High Court of Tangalle

Case No. HC/135/2021

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

Vs.

The Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo-12

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDENT

BEFORE : P. Kumararatnam, J.

R. P. Hettiarachchi, J.

COUNSEL : Sandeepani Wijesooriya for the

Appellant.

Anoopa De Silva, DSG for the Respondent.

CA/HCC/335/25

2 | P a g e

ARGUED ON : 09/06/2026

DECIDED ON : 20/07/2026

*******************

JUDGMENT

P. Kumararatnam, J.

The above-named Accused-Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the

Appellant) was indicted by the Attorney General in the High Court of Tangalle

on the following charge namely, committing the offence of rape on Vitharana

Gamage Dilmi Janithya on or about the 20th June 2019, which is an offence

punishable under Section 364(2) of the Penal Code.

After a non-jury trial, the Appellant was convicted as charged and was

sentenced to ten years RI and a fine of Rs.5000/-. In default 03 months

rigorous imprisonment was imposed. Further, a sum of Rs.350,000/-

compensation was ordered with a default term of 6 months simple

imprisonment.

Being aggrieved by the aforesaid conviction and the sentence, the Appellant

preferred this appeal to this court.

The learned Counsel for the Appellant informed this court that the Appellant

has given consent to argue this matter in his absence. Also, at the time of

argument the Appellant was connected via the Zoom platform from prison.

CA/HCC/335/25

3 | P a g e

The Counsel for the Appellant advanced the following grounds of appeal:

1. The Learned trial Judge has failed to consider the inter se and per se

contradictions and inconsistencies in the evidence of the prosecution

witnesses, which materially affect the credibility, and reliability of the

prosecution case.

2. The Learned trial Judge has erred in law in holding that the evidence

of the prosecutrix was sufficient to sustain a conviction,

notwithstanding that such evidence fails to satisfy the tests of

consistency, probability and belatedness, thereby rendering the

conviction unsafe.

3. The Learned trial Judge has failed to consider that the testimony of the

prosecutrix is contradicted by the medical evidence adduced before

Court, which contradiction creates a reasonable doubt regarding the

prosecution case.

4. The Learned trial Judge has failed to appreciate that the prosecution

has not proved the date of the alleged incident beyond reasonable

doubt, and has thereby erred in law in convicting the Appellant.

5. The Learned trial Judge has failed to properly evaluate and consider

the Dock Statement of the Appellant.

6. The Learned trial Judge has misdirected himself in law by applying

erroneous legal principles relevant to inquisitorial system.

The victim was 14 years old when she encountered this incident. At that

time, she was studying in grade 10. She had first met the Appellant at the

school sports meet. Although the Appellant had proposed to her, she did not

accept the proposal. On the day of the incident when she was at home after

school and ready to go to the bathroom for a wash only wearing the vest and

her undergarment, the Appellant had gone there, had forcefully taken her,

closed her mouth by hand and put her on a bed in her father’s room. After

removing his trouser, the Appellant had forcibly had sexual intercourse with

the victim after removing her undergarment. After the act, she had pushed

CA/HCC/335/25

4 | P a g e

the Appellant and she had run away from the room. The Appellant too, had

run away from the house. Although she went to inform this incident to PW2,

Rupika, her aunt, she could not do so due to the non-availability of her aunt.

Thereafter, she had kept quiet and had informed her aunt on 05.07.2019.

The victim had seen the Appellant going with another person thereafter.

PW2 Rupika, her aunt who was living in the neighbouring house, had come

to know about the incident only 15 days after the incident. Although she

gave evidence, she could not describe the incident divulged to her by the

victim properly.

The incident was conveyed to PW3, the mother of the victim by PW2 on

05.07.2019. After that the complaint was lodged with the police.

PW06, the JMO who examined the victim on 08.07.2019, stated that no

external injuries were found on the labia or near the vagina of the victim. No

recent or old injuries were seen in her vagina. The JMO had not excluded

sexual intercourse.

After the closure of the prosecution’s case, the defence was called and the

Appellant made a dock statement denying the incident. At the time of

incident, the Appellant was only 19 years of age.

As the appeal grounds raised by the Appellant are interconnected, all

grounds will be considered together hereinafter.

The prosecutrix’s position was that she was forcibly raped by the Appellant

on the date of the incident. According to her, full intercourse had taken place.

Although she had told the Police that the Appellant had kissed and fondled

her breasts, when giving evidence she did not mention these facts to the

court. She also admitted that the Appellant had come behind her after the

school sports meet, but she did not like it. In her evidence, it is revealed that

before she lodged her complaint, she had seen the Appellant with another

girl going in a bus.

CA/HCC/335/25

5 | P a g e

PW2, the aunt of the victim could not clearly give evidence with regard to the

rape incident. She only said that the victim had told her that the Appellant

had raped her. Even though it was demanded, PW2 had failed to reveal

actually what details she had received from the victim.

PW3, the mother of the victim in giving evidence had said that the victim had

told her that the Appellant had attempted to commit rape on her. This

evidence was recorded at page 137 of the brief.

Analysing the medical evidence is extremely important in this case, as the

Learned High Court Judge heavily relied on the medical evidence to convict

the Appellant. In the history given to the JMO, the victim had said that the

Appellant had pushed the victim to the room, closed her mouth using both

hands, touched her breasts, removed her clothes, inserted his penis, and

threatened her that he would post it on Facebook.

On the examination, the JMO had not found any injuries on the labia nor

near the vagina. No recent or old vaginal tears were noted in her vagina. No

signs of expansion or dilatation noted in the vagina. According to the JMO,

the penis can be inserted to the vagina without a tear but considering the

age of the victim, there is a high percentage or high chance that there would

be such an injury in the vagina.

When an accused is facing a serious criminal charge it is essential that every

point in favour of the accused, though it may seem trivial, should be placed

before the judge. It may well be that all such matters, if so, placed before the

judge may create a reasonable doubt, the benefit of which should accrue to

the accused.

In this case the Learned High Court judge had not considered the evidence

favourable to the Appellant. He had only considered the evidence given by

the prosecutrix and arrived at the conclusion that the evidence given by the

prosecutrix is convincing and reliable and that, therefore, the prosecution

had proved the case beyond reasonable doubt. However, considering the

CA/HCC/335/25

6 | P a g e

evidence mentioned above, I conclude it is not safe to rely on the evidence

given by the prosecutrix as it is tainted with doubt and ambiguity.

In this case the victim was 14 years old and the Appellant was 19 years old,

thus it is evident that he had just attended his adulthood.

In a criminal trial, as continuously stated by the Appellate Court, the burden

of proving a case rest entirely on the hands of the prosecution and this

responsibility never shifts to the defence unless the defence takes up a plea

to a general or special exception of the Penal Code.

In H. M. Mahinda Herath v. The Attorney General CA/21/2003 in

Appellate Court Judgments (Unreported) 2005 at page 35-39 the court held

that:

“Where it was held that in a criminal case burden is always on the

prosecution to prove the charge levelled against the accused beyond

reasonable doubt. The trial judge must always bear in mind that the

accused is presumed to be innocent until the charge against the accused

is proved beyond reasonable grounds”.

In the case of State of Rajasthan v. Raja Ram (2003) 8 SCC 180 it was held:

“The golden thread which runs through the web of administration of justice

in criminal cases is that if two views are possible on the evidence adduced

in the case, one pointing to the guilt of the accused and the other to his

innocence, the view which is favourable to the accused should be adopted.

The paramount consideration of the Court is to ensure that miscarriage of

justice is prevented. A miscarriage of justice which may arise from

acquittal of the guilty is no less than from the conviction of an innocent.”

The single most important criterion in evaluating the fairness of a trial is the

observance of the principle of equality of arms between the defence and the

prosecution. Equality of arms, which must be observed throughout the trial,

means that both parties are treated in a manner ensuring a procedurally

CA/HCC/335/25

7 | P a g e

equal position during the course of a trial. It would be difficult to identify in

advance, all of the situations that could constitute violations of the fair trial

principle.

Jayant Patel, J. in the case of Jusabbhai Ayubbhai v. State of Gujarat

CR.MA/623/2012 stated that:

“…..It is by now recognized principles that justice to one party should

not result into injustice to the other side and it will be for the Court to

balance the right of both the sides and to uphold the law.”

In the case of Zahira Habibullah Sheikh v. State of Gujarat (2004) 4 SCC

158 it was held that:

“It will not be correct to say that it is only the accused who must be fairly

dealt with. That would be turning a Nelson's eye to the needs of the society

at large and the victims or their family members and relatives. Each one

has an inbuilt right to be dealt with fairly in a criminal trial. Denial of a fair

trial is as much injustice to the accused as is to the victim and the society.

Fair trial obviously would mean a trial before an impartial Judge, a fair

prosecutor and atmosphere of judicial calm. Fair trial means a trial in

which bias or prejudice for or against the accused, the witnesses, or the

cause which is being tried is eliminated.”

In the case of Natasha Singh v. CBI (2013) 5 SCC 741 it was held that:

“Fair trial is the main object of criminal procedure, and it is the duty of the

court to ensure that such fairness is not hampered or threatened in any

manner. Fair trial entails the interests of the accused, the victim and of the

society, and therefore, fair trial includes the grant of fair and proper

opportunities to the person concerned, and the same must be ensured as

this is a constitutional, as well as a human right. Thus, under no

circumstances can a person’s right to fair trial be jeopardized. Adducing

evidence in support of the defence is a valuable right. Denial of such right

would amount to the denial of a fair trial.”

CA/HCC/335/25

8 | P a g e

After careful perusal of the evidence presented in the trial, I am of the view

that the evidence presented by the prosecution is tainted with serious

shortcomings and ambiguities. Therefore, it is not safe to act on such

evidence of the prosecution against the Appellant.

The learned Deputy Solicitor General in keeping with the highest traditions

of the Attorney General Department, left the matter to be decided by this

Court.

Considering both the Prosecution’s case as well as the case advanced by the

Defence, it is concluded that the grounds of appeal forwarded by the

Appellant carry sufficient merit to substantiate awarding the benefit of the

doubt to the Appellant.

I, therefore, set aside the conviction and the sentence imposed on the

Appellant by the Learned High Court Judge of Tangalle. The Appellant is

acquitted from the charge.

The appeal is allowed.

The Registrar is directed to send this judgment to the High Court of Tangalle

along with the original case record.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

R. P. Hettiarachchi, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL