==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

C.A. Writ Application No.423/2011

In the matter of an application for

mandates in the nature of Writs of

Certiorari and mandamus made in

terms of Articles 140 of the Constitution

of the Democratic Socialist Republic of

Sri Lanka.

1. Jayasinghe Mudalige Aruna

Kumar a,

Nissanka Attanapitiya,

Kohilegedera,

And 2 others

Vs.

Petitioners

1. Dayananda Dissanayake,

Former Commissioner General of

Elections, Elections Secretariat,

Sarana Mawatha,

Rajagiriya

And 15 others.

Respondents

.j ' j l I I I

.. l j i I I

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Written Submission on

Decided on

S.Sriskandarajah, J,

2

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

Chula Bandara

for the Petitioner,

Yuresha De Silva SC

for the Respondents

19.07.2012 and 22.11.2012

30.01.2013

The Petitioners contested the local government elections held on 17th March 2011

for the purpose of electing members for the Kurunegala Pradeshiya Sabha. The 5th to

the 16th Respondents were elected as Members at the said elections from the United

Peoples Freedom Alliance. The Petitioners complain in this application that the

Petitioners' rights to a fair and accurate counting of their preferential votes granted

under the election laws are violated. The Petitioners complained that the counting of

votes that were done at the respective counting centres were represented by Counting

Officers appointed under Section 59(a) of the Local Government Elections Ordinance.

Prior to the counting of votes, each recognized or independent group is entitled to

appoint not more than 5 Counting Agents who are authorized to be present when the

counting of vote is done in terms of Sections 60 and 61 of the said Ordinance. The

Petitioners submitted that, as per notice issued by the 3rd Respondent in terms of 61(1)

of the said Ordinance, the Kurunegala Pradeshiya Sabha votes were counted in the

counting rooms Nos.68 to 76, at the Maliyadewa Girls College Counting Centre. The 1st,

2nd and 3rd Petitioners participated at the counting of both votes and the preferential

votes conducted in room Nos.69 and 73, respectively. In addition, UPFA candidates

and other representatives were present in rooms Nos.75 and 76 respectively, as

Counting Agents. The Petitioners submitted that the tables that were used for the

I

!

f

3

counting of votes, 69, 73 and 75 were placed right across the room and, as they were

facing the entrance to the room, and the ballot boxes were placed behind the table, none

of the Counting Agents were permitted to get to the rear side of the table and thereby

they were denied to see how the counting officers marked preference in the tally sheets.

The Petitioners further submitted that when these matters were raised before the Chief

Counting Officer, the Chief Counting Officer disregarded the Petitioners' claim and

informed that there would be a check of these entries in the tally sheets and at that time

these complaints could be sorted out. As far as the Petitioners are aware, there was no

recheck of these entries, but what in fact happened was, the recheck to tally the total

number of preferential votes marked in the tally sheets with the number of preferential

votes found in the bundle of 50 ballot papers. The Petitioners contended that the

difference of preferential votes between the 6th Respondent and the 3rd Petitioner is one

vote, and the difference between the 16th Respondent and the 2nd Petitioner is 11 votes.

In view of this, the Petitioners submitted that the difference of preferential votes was so

narrow, that there could have been a change in the results if a recount was done and, in

this Application, the Petitioners have sought a Writ of Certiorari to quash the decision

of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd Respondents' preferential results and have sought a Writ of

Mandamus directing the 1st, 2nd and 3rd Respondents to recount the preferential votes of

all candidates of the United Peoples Freedom Alliance who contested the Kurunegala

Pradeshiya Sabha elections held on 20th March 2011.

If the relief sought for by the Petitioners are granted, it would nullify the said elections

to the Kurunegala Pradeshiya Sabha held on 17/03/2011. This will lead to a situation

where the Petitioners are indirectly challenging the entire election process. The entire

election process could only be challenged by an election petition provided by the said

ordinance. The Petitioners, by this Writ Application are challenging the election results

which they should have otherwise sought by an election petition. It was held in

Ratnasiri Perera Vs. Dayananda Dissanayake, Assistant Commissioner of Co-operati-ve

4

Development and others 1992 2 SLR 186, "that you cannot do indirectly which you can do

direct! y ."

The Petitioners in this Application are seeking for a Writ of Certiorari to quash

the preferential election results, as the counting and declaring the preferential election

results is not a decision or determination made by the Election Commissioner, it is only

a declaration of election by the people exercising their franchise, as the document which

reflects the results of election does not contain the decision or determination, hence a

Writ of Certiorari will not lie, to quash the election document that contained the election

results. In the case of Gamini Atukorale Vs. Dayananda Dissanayake, Commissioner of

Elections and others, 1998 3 SLR 206, it was held by His Lordship Wijetunga J. as follows:

"Counsel further submitted that what the Petitioner sought to quash was the final result

of the said election which was merely a declaration of the results of such election by the

Returning Officer in terms of Section 65 of the Ordinance. He had no discretion in

regard to the declaration of the result, in that he had merely to adopt and determine the

number of votes cast for each recognized political party or independent group from the

statements of votes cast at each polling station. That is not a "decision", but merely the

proclamation of the result and as such, it cannot be the subject of an application for a

Writ of Certiorari".

In the given circumstances, this Court is of the view that a Writ of Certiorari will not lie

to quash the said declaration and, therefore, this Court dismisses this Application

without cost.

President of the Court of Appeal