==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA. CA.PHC. APN. O5/2014 HC Colombo 3749/2007

S. Sumudu Sayakkara. Ritigahawaththa. Gonadeniya. Wakadawaka.

Surety - Petitioner Vs. Hon. Attorney General Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

C.A. (PHC)APN OS/2014(Rev.) H.C.Colombo Case No.3749/2007

f

Before K.T. Chitrasiri,J. &

Malinie Gunaratne,J

Counsel Tenny Fernando for the Petitioner

Anoopa de Silva, S.S.c. for the Respondent

Argued &

Decided on 23.07.2014

K.T. Chitrasiri,J.

This is an application to revise the order dated 26.11.2013 of the learned High Court Judge of

Colombo wherein he has made a confiscation order in accordance with the terms found in the bail bond

by which the Petitioner has agreed to produce the accused to Court in respect of the case HC

3749/2007 filed in the High Court of Colombo. The learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the

learned High Court Judge has acted upon the terms of the bail bond without giving an opportunity to

show cause why the Petitioner should not be dealt with, in terms of the said bail bond.

Learned Senior State Counsel concedes that such an opportunity has not been given to the

Petitioner before acting in terms of the bail bond.

Accordingly, learned counsel for the Petitioner moves to have this matter referred to the

learned High Court Judge to hold an inquiry before acting upon the terms of the bail bond.

Learned Senior State Counsel has no objection to this application made by the learned counsel

for the Petitioner.

In view of the above we set aside the order dated 26.11.2013 and direct the learned High Court

Judge to give an opportunity to show cause why the Petitioner should not be dealt with in accordance

with the bail bond signed by the Petitioner having assured the attendance of the accused in Court

whenever required by it.

Application allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Malinie Gunaratne.J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEA

Cr/-

f

Itt

ft

t!fI!I

!I

)

IrIl;