==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 507 I 2000 F

D.C. Balapitiya No. 1541 I M

Maththaka Gamage Chandrawathie, Bambarawana Janapadaya, Heenpanvila Road, Maththaka.

Plaintiff

Vs.

K. P. Mahindapala, Bambarawana Janapadaya, Maththaka.

Defendant AND

Maththaka Gamage Chandrawathie, Bambarawana Janapadaya, Heenpanvila Road, Maththaka.

Plaintiff Petitioner

Vs

K. P. Mahindapala, Bambarawana Janapadaya, Maththaka.

Defendant Respondent

AND NOW BETWEEN

Maththaka Gamage Chandrawathie, Bambarawana J anapadaya, Heenpanvila Road, Maththaka.

Plaintiff Petitioner Appellant

BEFORE

COUNSELS

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

Vs.

K. P. Mahindapala, Bambarawana J anapadaya, Maththaka.

Defendant Respondent- Respondent

UP AL Y ABEYRA THNE, J.

Nagitha Wijesekera with Ms. G.

Wijewardena for the Plaintiff Appellant

Defendant Respondent is absent and

unrepresented

05.02.2013

18.06.2013

The Plaintiff Petitioner Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the

Appellant) instituted the said action against the Defendant Respondent-Respondent

(hereinafter referred to as the Respondent) in the District Court of Balapitiya

praying for a judgment to recover from the Respondent a sum of Rs 375,000/- as

damages caused to her.

On the first date of trial namely on 31.08.1999 the Appellant

was absent and unrepresented. The Counsel for the Respondent has made an

application to dismiss the action of the Appellant. Upon the said application the

learned trial Judge has dismissed the Appellant's action. Thereafter the Appellant

has made an application to vacate the said order of dismissal of the action. The

3

Respondent has filed a statement of objection to the said application. After an

inquiry the learned District Judge has dismissed the said Application of the

Appellant. Being aggrieved by the said order of dismissal dated 22.08.2000 the

Appellant has appealed to this Court.

It appears from the proceedings of the case that at the aforesaid

inquiry the Appellant has led evidence to establish that on the relevant date she

came to Court late due to transport difficulties. She further said in evidence that

she left her house at about 4.30 to 5.00 in the morning and she had to travel about

29 miles from her residence to Court.

It is apparent from the said evidence that the reasons for the delay in

appearing in court at the time of calling the case was not due to her mistake or

negligence but due to unavoidable circumstances which were beyond the control of

the Appellant. Hence I am of the view that the reasons adduced by the Appellant

were sufficient to vacate the order of dismissal.

When I consider the said evidence it seems to me that the learned

Additional District Judge without paying his attention to the provisions contained

in Section 87(3) of the Civil Procedure Code has dismissed the Appellant's said

Application. Section 87(3) of the Code stipulates that;

"The plaintiff may apply within a reasonable time from the date of

dismissal, by way of petition supported by affidavit, to have the

dismissal set aside, and if on the hearing of such application, of which

the defendant shall be given notice, the court is satisfied that there

were reasonable grounds for the non-appearance of the plaintiff, the

court shall make order setting aside the dismissal upon such terms as

4

to costs or otherwise as it thinks fit, and shall appoint a day for

proceeding with the action as from the stage at which the dismissal for

default was made."

It seems from Subsection (3) that if the court is satisfied that there are

reasonable grounds for the non-appearance of the plaintiff, then the court shall

make order setting aside the dismissal. Hence the duty of the trial judge is to

consider whether the evidence before him reveals reasonable grounds for setting

aside the dismissal.

In the said circumstances I am of the view that the learned Additional

District Judge has erred in rejecting the evidence of the Appellant and dismissing

the application to vacate the dismissal of the action of the Appellant. It appears that

the learned trial judge has embarked on a voyage of discovery in finding the

shortcomings of the evidence of the Appellant.

In the said circumstances I set aside the order of the learned District

Judge dated 22.08.2000 and allow the appeal of the Appellant with costs. I direct

that this case be sent back to the District Court of Balapitiya to proceed with the

trial. The learned District Judge of Balapitiya is directed to hear and conclude this

case expeditiously according to law.

Appeal allowed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal