==== BLOCKS ==== 

1 I I 1 ! 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI

LANKA

C.A.No.518/97{F)

D.C.Kandy No. 7908/P

A.M. Heenbanda

Sirimalwatta, Gunnepana

Plaintiff

Vs -I

1. A. Piyaratne

2. H.M.Dingiri Banda (Deed) 3. R.V.George Singho

4. M.D.T.K.L.R.Mudiyanse

5. (A) W.M. Weerakoon (Legal Representative of the deceased 04, 05 Defendants 6. Mendhinona

6{a) W.M.Jennona (Legal Representative

of 06th Defendant)

7. H.M. Kiribanda

8. A. Balaappuhamy - all of Sirimalwatta,

Gunnepana

Defendants

AND

W.M. Jennona

W.M.Mudiyanse

H.M.Heenmenike - all of Karathamada,

Sirimalwatta, Gunnepana

6A,5A & 2nd Added Defendant Appellants

Vs

I ! ; I ! 1 I

j I J 4

\

'\ I

I

2

BEFORE: Deepali Wijesundera J and

M.M.A. Gaffoor

H.M.Henbanda,Sirimaliwatta

Gunnepana

Plaintiff-Respondent

A. Piyarathna and 6 others

Defendant-Respondents

AND NOW BETWEEN

01.5. Appuhamy

02.1. Abeykoon

03.Kalu Banda

04. H.M. Banda

OS. H.M.Ran Banda

06. H.M. Balaya Banda

06A.H.M.Lakshmi Kumari

.-\

Added-Defendant-Respondents

Vs

Kalupahanage Karunawathi

Added s(a) Substituted Defendant

Respondent

COUNSEL: G.P.Janaka Silva for the 6B Substituted Defendant Appellant

Bimal Rajapakse with S.A. Kulasuriya for the s(A) Defendant

Appellant

J.C.Boange for the Plaintiff Respondent

Daya Guruge for the 04th Defendant Respondent

ARGUED ON: 12.02.2015

3

DECIDED ON: 06.07.2015

.M.A. Gaffoor J. t

This an appeal from the judgment of the learned District Judge of Kandy

dated 12.12.1996. The Plaintiff-Respondent filed this action for the partition of

the land described in the schedule to the plaint. Substituted 4th and 6th

Defendants and the added 2nd to 6th Defendants contested the devolution of title

pleaded by the Plaintiff. Substituted 6th Defendant and 2nd to 6th (\dded

Defendants contended that title Deed No. 4657 upon which the 4th Defendant

claimed title to an undivided share of this land, was not an act and deed of its

grantor. They in fact moved for a commission on the Examiner on Questioned

Documents to compare the signature of the grantor in the said deed with his

signature found on certain other documents. The learned trial Judge refused the

application on the ground that the application for a commission was belated.

The learned trial Judge ordered the partition of the land granting also a

share on a deed executed long after the action was registered as a lispendence.

The appellants in this appeal challenged the propriety of the judgment of

the learned District Judge on the following grounds:

i) The trial Judge erred in allotting a share to the 4A Defendant since

the due execution of the deed upon which he claimed title to a share

{4657 (4V3}) of the corpus had not been established and the said

deed had been executed long after the case was registered as a lis

pendence;and

4

ii) The trial Judge erred in allowing the witness whose name did not

appear in the list of witnesses tendered before the date of the trial to

testify;

Section 25 of the Partition Law No. 21 of 1977 as amended, requires

the Court to investigate the title of each co-owner before proceeding to

partition the land. He must investigate the title irrespective of what the

parties mayor may not do. However, it is to be borne in mind that the

Judges are not expected to go on a voyage of discovery in finding evidence

for the parties.

It is correct for the Court to say that an application for the

commission under Section 428 of the Civil Procedure Code may be

dismissed for its belatedness but that is not a rule of law. This section

confers discretion on the Court to issue a commission even at the later

stage of the trial but before the judgment if it is required for the proper

adjudication of the dispute between the parties. This being a partition

action the learned trial Judge should have allowed the motion to issue a

commission on the Examiner on Questioned Documents which would have

assisted the Court to a very great extend in investigating the title of the

parties.

Section 68 of the Evidence Ordinance requires that if a document is

required by law to be attested it shall not be used as evidence until one

attesting witness at least has been called for the purpose of proving its

execution. But in partition proceedings these documents can be admitted

in evidence without further proof. However, when fraud is alleged the

5

burden of proving the due execution of a particular deed is on the party

who relies on that document. The Plaintiff Respondent called one of the

attesting witnesses to testify at the trial. Section 68 does not require that

both witnesses to be called but when fraud is alleged. In my view, mere

calling only one witness is not sufficient however much the learned trial

Judge believes his or her evidence. The learned trial Judge in the case

analyzed his evidence but merely says that he believes his evidence. I am

-l therefore of the view that the learned trial Judge should have allowed the

motion of the Appellants to issue a commission on the Examiner on

Questioned Documents to examine the signature of the grantor in Deed

"4V3".

This case has been registered as a lis pendence on OSthOctober 1970,

and Deed "4V3" has been executed on 01st November 1989, more than

nineteen years later, pending this action.

thus:

Section 66 of the Partition Law No. 21 of 1977, as amended provides

i) After a partition action is duly registered as a lis

pendence under the Registration of Documents

Ordinance no voluntary alienation, lease or

hypothecation of any undivided share or interest of or in

the land to which the action relates shall be made or

effected until the final determination of the action by

dismissal thereof, or by the entry of a decree of partition

under Section 36 or by the entry of a certificate of sale;

6

ii) Any voluntary alienation, lease or hypothecation made

or effected in contravention of the provisions of sub-

section (1) of this Section shall be void;

iii) Any assignment, after the institution of a partition

action, of a lease or hypothecation effected prior to the

registration of such partition action as a lis pendence

shall not be affected by the provisions of sub-section (i)

.~ and (2) of this action;

In view of the above provisions the Deed "4V3" does not

confer title on the 4th Defen dant and the learned trial Judge has

erred in allotting a share to the 4th Defendant and the learned trial

Judge has erred in allotting a share to the 4th Defendant.

It is also important to note that when a party dies during the

pendency of a partition action, his rights do not devolve on the party

substituted in his place. Even where a party dies any share of the

corpus should be allotted to the deceased party and not to the

substituted party. A person is substituted in the room of a deceased

party only for the purpose of prosecuting the action. The rights of

the heirs of the party deceased cannot be adjudicated upon the same

action ..

For the reasons set out above I am of the view that the learned

trial Judge has failed to discharge his duty to investigate the title of

the parties as required by the Partition Law No. 21 of 1977, as

amended.

I

f

fI

7

Section 23 of the Partition Law only requires the parties to file

their respective lists of documents 30 days before the trial, it does

not require the parties to file lists of witnesses.

Most of the allegations in the petition of appeal are that

certain shares transferred after the action was registered as a lis

pendence have not been allotted to such parties. This allegation is

without merit for the reasons set out above. .~

In my view, although the parties are inconvenienced, this case

has to be sent back for a trial de novo.

The appeal is allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Wijesundera J.,

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.:

I

f

t

t

}