==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA 1292/98 (F)

DC Galle Case No.11337/L

N.K. Jayaratne

Defendant-Appellant Vs. A.M. Sithy Fathima, Navinna, Unuvatune, Galle.

Plaintiff - Respondent.

..

CA Case No. 1292/98(F) DC Galle No. 11337/L

Before Ani! Gooneratne, J.

Counsel Defendant Appellant is absent and unrepresented.

S.N. Vijithsingh for the Plaintiff Respondent

Argued &

Decided on 27.08.2012

Ani! Gooneratne, J.

This was an action filed in the District Court of Galle for a

declaration of title and ejectment / damages against the Defendant-

Appellant. The land in dispute is described as lots 9 and 10 in plan

marked P 1 bearing No. 134A. At the trial Plaintiff has also produced a

final decree marked as P 3 in case No. L 124. By the said final decree

the 2nd and 3rd Defendants in that case became entitled to the said lots 9

and 10. There is also evidence to the effect that Plaintiffs mother is the

3rd Defendant in case No. L 124. There is also evidence to the effect that

the 2nd Defendant is the Plaintiffs mother's sister and as such 2nd & 3rd

Defendants are both sisters. It has also been submitted to this Court by

learned counsel for Respondent that the 2nd Defendant died subsequent

1

to decree marked P 3. It was also in evidence that by deed of gift marked

P 4, the 3rd Defendant in case No. L 124 became entitled to the

inheritance of the deceased 2nd Defendant in case No. L 124. It is also in

evidence that the Plaintiffs mother (3rd Defendant in case No. L 124)

during her life time executed a deed of gift marked as P 4 bearing No.

3469 in favour of the Plaintiff Respondent. When deed marked P 4 was

produced in evidence in the District Court there was no objection to the

said deed.

The position of the Defendant Appellant is that he has prescribed

to the above lots shown as lot Nos 9 and 10 in plan marked PI . In order

to prescribe to the said lots 9 and 10 it is important for the party

concerned to satisfy Court that he has established the ingredients in

Section 3 of the Prescription Ordinance. In this case the Defendant

Appellant relies on deed marked V 3 to prove his title to lots 7 and 8 of

plan marked P 1. Lots 9 and 10 are adjacent to the above lots 7 & 8.

The learned District Judge having considered the evidence led at the trial

has entered judgment in favour of the Plaintiff Respondent. Perusal of

the judgment it appears that the Trial Judge has been satisfied that the

Defendant Appellant has not proved prescriptive title to the above lots 9

and 10. This Court having perused the judgment in relation to the

evidence led at the trial is satisfied that the Trial Judge has correctly

2

arrived at a finding rejecting prescriptive rights of the Defendant

Appellant. I do not wish to disturb the findings of the learned District

Judge. As such I affirm the judgment of the District Judge. Appeal

dismissed without costs.

6J~ CG<N~~

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

KL./-

3