==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for Mandates

in the nature of a Writ of Certiorari under

article 140 of the Constitution of the

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

*******

C.A. (Writ) Application No.348/2011

1

Vs

Indeera Wickramasinghe

No. 03, Sarasavi Uyana

Katuwewa, Weeraketiya.

PETITIONER

1. Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign

Employement

2. Kinsley Ranawake - The Chairman

3. Bhatiya Sumityarachchi

4. Taranga Nalin Gamlath

5. Mrs. P.AK.P. De Silva

6. Mrs. M. Gamage

7. Mrs. N. Gunasekera

8. W.M. Seneviratne

9. AKusumsiri

10. H.D.P. Gamage

11. H.D.}. Wickramasinghe

12. Harischandra Batagoda

General Manager

13. G. Jinadasa - Inquiry Officer

All of

Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign

Employement,

No.234, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mw,

Koswatte, Battaramulla.

14. Commission to Investigate

2

Allegation of Bribery or Corruption.

36, Malalasekara Mawatha,

Colombo 07.

Respondents - Respondent

1. I. Anzar

2. Ashoka Alawaththa

3. E.M.S.B. Ekanayake

4. Susil Ranasinghe

s. LA Ranjith Nihal Perera

6. M.Z.M. Manzoor

7. P.B. Niyadandipola

8. A.R.B. Nihatdeen

9. M.P. Pathirana

10. Rohan Somawansa

All of

Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign Employment,

No.234,Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mw

Koswatte, Battaramulla.

Added-Respondents- Respondent

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

Oeepali Wijesundera J.

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

: K.G. Jinasena for the Petitioner.

Anusha Samaranayake S.S.C.

for the 1 st to 13th Respondents.

: 25th June, 2014

: 1th October, 2014

The petitioner has filed this application seeking writs of Certiorari

to quash his interdiction letter marked as P8, charge sheet served on

him marked as P9 and his letter of dismissal marked as P13.

The petitioner was employed by the Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign

Employment, a person from a Foreign Employment Agency who had

come to obtain an extension of a license had alleged that the petitioner

demanded a bribe from him. This had resulted in a complaint being

made by the 1 st respondent to the Commission to Investigate

Allegations of Bribery or Corruption and a decoy was placed to entrap

the petitioner by the 14th respondent. The petitioner had been

3

subsequently arrested and produced before the Magistrates Court and

indicted in the High Court. The 1 st respondent had conducted a

disciplinary inquiry which resulted in the dismissal of the petitioner.

The petitioner seeks to challenge the interdiction which he had

been notified by P8 dated 22/04/2009 on the basis that it had been

sig ned and issued by the Acting Chairman who was not authorized to

issue the said letter. He also seeks to challenge P9 and P13 on the

basis that there has been no delegation of powers of the Board to

appoint and to terminate employment as permitted under Sec. 16 (2) (e)

of the Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign Employment Act No. 21 of 1985.

The petitioner submitted that in terms of Sec 11 (1) and (2)

powers vested with the 1st respondent can be delegated and by P14

powers had been delegated to the 2nd respondent however in making

the delegation no reference had been made to Sec. 11 of the Act the

petitioner stated no absolute power had been delegation to the 2

nd

respondent chairman of the Bureau.

The petitioner stated that it is illegal and is in violation of Natural

justice for the 2nd respondent to get involved in the disciplinary

4 I

f

proceedings as he had a direct involvement on the alleged bribery

incident. The petitioner cited the judgment in Jinasena Vs University of

Colombo and others 2005 3 SLR 9. The facts of this case are different

from the instant case where the council members have given evidence

at the domestic inquiry. In the instant case none of the makers of PS, P9

and P13 where witness at the domestic inquiry.

Citing the judgments in Mercelin Perera Vs Sockalingam

Chettiar 1947 NLR 265 and Shardul Singh Vs State of MP 1986 (Vol

53) 193 the petitioner's counsel stated that the 2nd respondent had

issued charges against the petitioner without the approval of the Board

of Directors therefore the issue VII and VIII raised by 2nd respondent

should be answered in favour of the petitioner and went on to frame

issues. The learned counsel has mistaken the instant application which

is an application for a writ to a case in the District Court where the

counsels frame issue and at the end of the trial the court answered each

issue in favour of either party.

The petitioner's counsel in his submission has cited a number of

judgments which are applicable to Labor Tribunal application and have

no relevance to the instant case.

5

The learned counsel for the respondents stated that the decision

contained in PS, P9 and P13 had been made under the powers of the

Board of Directors of the 1st respondent in Sec. 16 (2) (e) of the Sri

Lanka Bureau of Foreign Employment Act No. 21 of 1985 and that

powers have been delegated to the 2nd respondent under Sec. 11 of the

said act. The delegation is contained in documents P14, 2R3 and 2R6.

The respondent further submitted that P8 was issued while the 3rd

respondent was functioning as Acting Chairman. The respondents

stated that there was a valid delegation by the Board to the 2nd

respondent before issuing P13 dismissing the petitioner and it was

forwarded to the Board of Directors and their approval was taken as

shown in 2R7.

Learned counsel for the respondents' submitted that the petitioner

filed CA writ application 562/10 challenging PS and later withdraw the

matter thereafter the instant case was filed in May 2011 which can be

only described as belated, vexatious and futile.

The respondents stated that the petitioner when served with P9

had only made a bare denial and at the disciplinary inquiry petitioner

6

elected not to give evidence. He was found guilty after the conclusion of

the inquiry.

The petitioner seeks to challenge his interdiction (P8) dated

22/04/2009 on the basis that it had been issued by the Acting Chairman.

Sec. 11 of the Act status;

(1). The Board may delegate to the Chairman, a Director

or an employee of the Bureau any of its powers and

duties as may be necessary for the efficient

administration of the affairs of the Bureau.

(2). Every person to whom any power or duty is

delegated under subsection (1), shall exercise or perform

such power or duty subject to the general or special

directions of the Board.

The Board can delegate powers not only to the Chairman or a

Director but also to an employee of the Bureau for necessary

administration of the Bureau.

7

Sec. 16 status;

(1). The Bureau shall have power to do anything necessary

for, or conducive or incidental to, the carrying out of its

objects.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers

conferred by subsection (I), the Bureau shall have power.

(2)(e) To appoint, terminate the employment of,

remunerate and control, its officers, servants, and

representatives and to direct and decide all matters

connected with the administration of its affairs;

Sec. 12 (2) of the Act status that "If the Chairman of the Board of

Directors is unavailable the Minister may appoint one of the Directors to

act in his place". Therefore the petitioner can not say the Acting

Chairman had no authority to sign a letter, under Sec. 12 (2) he has all

the rights of the Chairman.

The petitioner's argument that P13 his letter of dismissal was not

put to the Board is not correct. Document 2R7 shows that the

8

petitioner's dismissal was put before the Board of Directors and

approved by them on 24/03/2011.

For the afore stated reasons I decide that the petitioner's

application is not a fit case to issue a writ of certiorari. Petition is

dismissed with costs fixed as Rs. 25,0001=.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

9

i II•II!I III! II

[I

!t

Il

~

i

I

~tff

l-I,