==== BLOCKS ==== 

209/2012

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an appeal in terms

Of section 331 of the Criminal

Procedure Act No. 15 of 1979 as

Amended

Kirrwala Mudalige Chaminda

Accused-Appellant

C.A.Case No:-209/2012

H.C. Colombo Case NO:-4853/2009

v.

Han. Attorney-General

Respondent

Before:- H.N . .I.Perera, J &

P.W.D.C.Jayathiiake, J

Counsel:-Anil Silva P.c. with Nandana Perera for the Accused-

Appellant

S.Thurairaja D,S.G. for the Respondent

Argued On:- 02.09.2014/03.09.2014

Written Submissions-29.09.2014/09.12.2014

Decided On:-21..01.2015

~ 1 1 I I I

H.N.J.Perera, J.

The accused-appellant was indicted in the High Court of Colombo for

being in possession and trafficking of 6.4 g of Heroin and thereby

committing an offence punishable under Section S4A(b) and Section

S4A(d) of the Poisons, Opium and Dangerous Drugs Ordinance.

The accused pleaded not guilty and the case proceeded to trial. After

trial the accused-appellant was convicted for both charges and

sentenced to death. Aggrieved by the said conviction and sentence

the accused-appellant has preferred this appeal to this court.

At the appeal the Counsel for the accused-appellant relied mainly on

two grounds of appeal.

(a)Leading of evidence relating to the bad character of the

a ccused-ci ppella nt

(b)The effect of the Trial Judge extensively questioning the

Accused-appellant

The prosecution case rested mainly on the evidence of three

witnesses. Out of the three witnesses the first and second were the

investigating officers whereas the third witness was the Senior

Additional (~overnrnent Analyst.

The fact~ pertaining to this case are briefly as follows:

According to IP.\t\/elegedera and PC Lal Kumara on information

received bV PC LalKumara they proceeded to Peliyagoda and close to

Pearl Ray Hotel the accused-appellant was arrested and on

examination in hiS" pocket IP Welagedera found a bag containing

heroin and small packets also containing Heroin. Thereafter he was

taken to the Narcotic Bureau and on the following day produced in

court and remanded. The accused-appellant denied that he was

f

arrested at Peliyagoda. His position was that he was arrested at

Kadawatha at the residence of his sister Chamila. He also denied that

he had Heroin in his possession and no Heroin was recovered from

the house either.

It was contended by the learned President's Counsel for the accused-

appellant that as there was two diametrically opposed views as to

what happened on 14.03.2007 a careful analysis of the evidence is

needed by the learned High Court Judge in an impartial manner.

The appellant's first ground of appeal was that in the course of the

trial, evidence of bad character of the accused was elicited from the

accused-appellant by the State Counsel as well as by the learned Trial

Judge when he gave evidence. It was argued that the accused on his

own did not volunteer to state that he has a good character and that

he was questioned about whether he had any problems with the

Police. It was '(he position of "the Counsel for the accused-appellant

that the said evidence was elicited in cross examination to show that

the accused had a case pertaining to Heroin in Negombo and also he

was involved in ;:·m inc;dent in the Dematagoda police area.

The legal position rela-:ing to the leading of evidence of bad character

is set out in the Section 54 of the Evidence Ordinance .The Section

states as follows:-

{lIn criminal prnc€edipgs the fact t'1at the person is of bad character

is irrelevant,' ')nles5 eviden(€ I-Jas been given that he has a good

character, in which case it becomes relevant."

In Roshan V. j~ttornev Genera! 2011(1) SLR. 366 it was held that:-

{lThere is a paramount duty cast on a trial judge to exclude

inadmissib!= e'/idence and pre\,ent ~uch evidence creeping in to the

record. The re~ulta:1t situation is such tha! these offending items of

bad character evidence has now crept in to the record and formed

part of the proceedings. This is extremely prejudicial to the interests

of the accused and would adversely affect the right of an accused to

a fair tria!."

It is contended on behalf of the accused-appellant that in the instant

case when evidence of bad character has been led, the defence has

not objected but the learned trial judge instead of preventing the

leading of such evidence, actively took part in the questioning of the

witness and the evidence was permitted to get in to the record.

Further in this case the learned trial judge has referred to the

evidence of bad ~haracter he did not refer to the fact that he was not

taking that evidence into account but went further and stated that it

was the reason 'NhV the defence evidence was rejected. Therefore it

is very clear in this case that the learned trial judge was in fact

influenced by the evidence of bad character that was led in finding

the guilt of the accused.

It was argued by Counsel for the appellant that the conviction should

be set aside on the ground of the admission of irrelevant evidence of

character of the appellant. This was based on the fact that in cross-

examination of the accused-appellant the State Counsel as well as

the trial judge elicited evidence of bad character of the accused

when he gave evidence.

Counsel for the Respondent sought to meet the objection by the

argument that mere reception of inadmissible evidence will not

vitiate a conviction if there is other evidence to support it and

secondly if it cannot be shown that the trial judge was influenced by

such evidence.

In Aron V. Amerawardene 49 N.L.R.167, Basnayake, J. held that in a

case where irrelevant evidence as to character has been admitted it

is open to the Appellate Court to apply the provisions of Section 167

of the Evidence Ordinance and uphold the verdict if there is

sufficient admissible evidence to justify it.

In Stireland V. Directore of Public Prosecutions {1944} 2 All England

Law Reports 13, the House of Lords did not interfere with a

conviction in a case where apart altogether from the impeached

evidence there was an overwhelming case proved against the

accused.

In King V. Pila (1912) 15 N.L.R. 453 Lascelles, CJ., observed that there

was no question but that the Appellate Court, under Section 167 of

the Evidence Ordinance, has power to uphold a conviction if it was of

opinion that the evidence improperly admitted did not affect the

result.

Section 167 of the Evidence Ordinance declares that the improper

admission or rejection of evidence sha!1 not be a ground itself for a

new trial or reversal of any decision in any case, if it shall appear to

the court before which such objection is raised that, independently

of the evidence objected to and admitted, there is sufficient

evidence to justify the decision.

In the case of King V. Pila 15 N.L.R. 453, where several witnesses

stated in evidence that they were deterred from coming forward to

give evidence bV the fact that the accused were reputed rowdies,

gamblers and ':hieves, Larcelles c.J. while declaring the evidence of

character as irrelevant observed:-

"There can be no question but that this Court, under section 167 of

the Evidence Ordinan,:e, has power to uphold the conviction, if we

are of opinion that th2 evidence improperly admitted did not affect

the result of th 2 triaL"

Further in Abdul Rahim V. Emperor (1946) A.I.R.Peivy Council 82 at

85 it was held that:-

"The appellate Court must apply its own mind to the evidence, and

after discarding what has been improperly admitted decide whether

what is left is sufficient to justify the verdict. If the appellate Court

does not think that the admissible evidence in the case is sufficient

to justify the verdict then it will not affirm the verdict and may adopt

the course of ordering a new trial or take whatever other course is

open to it. But the ap~ellate Court if satisfied that there is sufficient

admissible evk-jence to justify the verdict, is plainly entitled to uphold ·t /I I .

It was never tl--.e position of the Counsel for the appellants that the

finding of the learned High Court Judge cannot be sustained even on

facts and that there is abundant reason for this Court to interfere

with the decision.

There can be no question but that this Court, under section 167 of

the Evidenc'2 Ordinance, has power to uphold the conviction, if we

are of the opinion that the evidence improperly admitted did not

affect the result of the trial.

In the present case the findings of the learned High Court Judge does

not rest on the evidence to which exception is taken, and I am

satisfied that there is sufficient evidence to justify the verdict.

Section 165 of the Evidence Ordinance states 3S follows:-

"The judge ma)! in order to discover or obtain proper proof of

relevant facts, ask an',! question he pleases in anv form, at any time

of ary vJitness or of fie parVes about any fact relevant or irrelevant;

and may order the production of any document or thing; and neither

the parties nor their agents shall be entitled to make any such

objection or order, nor without the leave of the court to cross

examine any witness upon any answer given in reply to any such

question.

Provided the judgment must be based upon facts declared by this

Ordinance to be relevant and duly proved ...... "

It is submitted by the learned President's Counsel for the accused

appellant that the learned trial judge ex~ensively questioned the only

defence witness called and the said questioning has nothing to do

with the ({discovery or to obtain proper proof of facts."

In Queen V r\';malasena De Zoyso (LV) Vol. CLW 49 Basnayake CJ.

observed that:-

({That the me!'"€: fc:·(:t that the trj;:~ judge in the exercise of power

vested :n him under ~,ection 165 of Evidence Ordinance put a large

numb'2~ of questions to a witness e'/en if the number is greater than

the number put by the prosecution or the defence is not a ground for

quashing a conviction. The appeal Court will quash a conviction only

if the appellant satisfy that the fact that the judge put so many

ques-:iofls rf.:'3Jited in a misc3rric:.ge of jL.::;ticE."

It is evident that in the instant case the learned High Court Judge has

exercised this power granted to him under section 165 of the

evidence Ordinance and has questioned the said witness extensively.

Yet, I cannot agree that this has resulted in a miscarriage of justice.

It \.va~, ·:ori~en.~J2d ~Jy H'E C)Ur2~(~! fo' t'-,e Respondent that the

prosecution has proved their case beyond reasonable doubt.

On a perusal and considercltion of the learned High Court Judge's

judgment and totality of the evidence rEd in the case we are of the

considered 'view that he '-lad come to d right decision in finding the

accused-appellant guilty of all the charges. In conclusion, for reasons

I

stated above I hold that the accused-appellant has failed to satisfy

this court on any ground urged on his behalf that a miscarriage of

justice had occurred. Therefore I dismiss the appeal of the accused-

appellant and affirm the conviction and the sentence dated

15.03.2012 of the learned High Court Judge of Colombo.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C.Jayathiiake, J

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

,

I

~ fIIt

f