==== BLOCKS ==== 

Page 1 of 4

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

In the matter of an Application for Bail under section 83 of the Poisons, Opium and Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act No. 41 of 2022.

Thalarambage Jagath Shaminda Fernando CA Case No: BAL/539/2023 HC- Panadura Accused Case No: HC 4027/2020 MC- Moratuwa Thalarambage Sashika Dilhani Fernando, Case No: B 239/2019 No. 23, Dandeniyawatta, Dewala Road, Katubedda, Moratuwa.

Petitioner

(On behalf of the Accused above-named)

Vs.

1. Hon. Attorney General,

Attorney General’s Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

Before: R. Gurusinghe J.

&

M.C.B.S. Morais J.

Counsel: Priyantha Deniyaya for the Petitioner.

Jehan Gunasekara, SC for the Respondent.

Inquiry on: 21.03.2024

Decided On: 16.05.2024

Page 2 of 4

M.C.B.S. Morais J.

The petitioner is the daughter of the accused in the case bearing number HC 4027/2020 in the

High Court of Panadura. It is apparent that the accused was arrested on or about 05th of

February 2019 based on an information received by the Police and was produced before the

Magistrate Court of Moratuwa and facts were reported under Case No. B/239/2019. The

accused was indicted in the High Court of Panadura for being in possession and trafficking of

766.5 grams of ‘Diacetylmorphine’ alias ‘Heroin’ but the initial gross quantity was said to be

1002.0 grams.

The petitioner has made this application before us under section 83 of the Poisons, Opium

and Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act, No.41 of 2022. As for the provisions of section

83(2),

“83(2) notwithstanding the provisions of sections 84 and 85, a person suspected or

accused of an offence under subsection (1) of section 54A and section 54B-

(a) of which the pure quantity of the dangerous drug, trafficked, imported, exported,

or possessed is ten grams or above in terms of the report issued by the Government

Analyst under section 77A; and

(b) Which is punishable with death or life imprisonment, shall not be released on bail

except by the Court of Appeal in exceptional circumstances.”

In, Ramu Thamotharampillai V. The Attorney General [2004] 3 SLR 180, it was held that;

“the decision must in each case depend on its own peculiar facts and circumstances”

In, Labynidarage Nishanthi V. Attorney General CA (PHC) APN 48/2014), said that;

“…the term „exceptional circumstances‟ has not been explained or defined in any of

the statutes. Judges are given a wide discretion in deciding in what creates a circumstance

which exceptional in nature.”

In, Welathanthrage Amila Sampath Botheju V. Attorney General CA/BAL/0239/23, it was

held that;

“…a certain situation amounts to exceptional circumstances or not, has to be

considered on a case-by-case basis, unique to each application before the court.”

Page 3 of 4

When applied in relation to the facts before us, in paragraph 08 of the petition, the petitioner

pleads certain grounds which are alleged as exceptional grounds and they are as follows:

a) The accused has been in remand since 06.02.2019 over four and half years up to date.

b) The accused is suffering from acute kidney failure, the medical reports of which could

not be obtained in due course to be annexed here to.

c) The wife of the accused has left the country for Kuwait to earn the living expenses for

her two daughters, who are 15 years and 21 years respectively and both of them are in

a dire need of parental care and protection.

It is apparent that the accused has been in remand custody for more than 63 months and there

is nothing to indicate that the evidence of the first prosecution witness has been concluded

yet. Therefore, it is apparent that there is a long delay which is unusual in general.

Though the petitioner has failed to submit the reports of alleged medical grounds and

circumstances, it is apparent that he has been produced before medical officers time to time

for ill health and according to the page number ‘34’ of the High Court case record annexed

and submitted as ‘X’, it is confirmed that the suspect has undergone a surgery for a kidney

ailment.

According to the page number ‘58’ of the High Court case record, this suspect has no

previous convictions or pending cases.

Therefore, all of these are taken together I am of the view that this is a fit and proper case to

grant bail.

Accordingly, bail is granted on the following conditions.

1. The accused should provide a cash bail of Rs. 200,000.

2. To provide two acceptable sureties. They must sign a bond of Rs. 2,000,000/= each.

3. The accused should report to the Officer in Charge of the Police Narcotics Bureau on

every first Sunday of the month until the conclusion of the matter.

4. The bail should be canceled and/or confiscated upon this accused being arrested again

in connection with another offence alleged to have been committed while on bail or

on violation of any of the bail conditions.

Page 4 of 4

5. To surrender the passport of the suspect if any, to the court. A travel ban is imposed

on the accused. The controller of Immigration and Emigration is to be informed of the

travel ban of the accused.

6. The permanent residing address of the accused should be provided to the court, and

such residence should not be changed without leave of the court until the conclusion

of the case.

Subject to the conditions set out above, bail is granted. The registrar of this court is directed

to send copies of this bail order to the High Court of Panadura and the Officer in Charge of

the Police Narcotics Bureau to inform due compliance of the suspect to the trial court.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

R. Gurusinghe J.

I agree

Judge of the Court of Appeal