==== BLOCKS ==== 

< ,

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for Orders in

the nature of Writs of Certiorari and

Mandamus under and in terms of Article

140 of the Constitution of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

*******

C.A. (Writ) Application No.972/2008

1

Vs

K.A Shirani,

41/19F, Madulawa Road,

Meegoda.

PETITIONER

1. Ceylon Electricity Boad,

Sir Chittampalam A.Gardiner Mw,

P.O. Box 540, Colombo 02.

2. M.M.C. Ferdinanda,

Acting Chairman

3. K.A. Ranaweera

Vice-Chairman

4. D.A. Galwatta

Member

5. Lalith R. De Silva

Member

I

JlI!

I

!f

ItI

Il

. ,

6. S.K. Attygalle

Member

7. R.V.D. Piyathilake

Member

2nd to 7th Respondents were of

Board of Directors,

Ceylon Electricity Board

Sir Chittampalam A.Gardiner Mw

P.O. Box 540, Colombo 02.

(7 A) Prof.Wimaladharma Abeywickreme

Chairman

(7B)W.D. Anura Senaka Wijayapala

Vice-Chairman

(7C)P.P. Gunasena

Member and Working Director

(7D)Dr. B.M.S. Batagoda

Member

(7E)Dr. Nihal Jayathilake

Member

(7F)W.D. Jayasinghe

Member

(7G)K.D. Ranasinghe

Member

7 A to 7G Respondents are of

Board of Directors,

Ceylon Electricity Board,

Sir Chittampalam A.Gardiner MW

P.O. Box 540, Colombo 02.

2

Ir

r!

t

\

· \

3

8. Badra Jayaweera

Former General Manager

Ceylon Electricity Board,

Sir Chittampalam AGardiner Mw

P.O.Box 540, Colombo 02.

(SA)Nihal Wickremasuriya

General Manager,

Ceylon Electricity Board

Sir Chittampalam AGardiner Mw

P.O. Box 540, Colombo 02.

9. D.R. Pulleperuma

Former General Manager of the

Ceylon Electricity Board

No.3, Alubogahawatte

Anderson Road, Dehiwala.

10. S. Rajakulendran

Finance Manager

Ceylon Electricity Board

Sir Chittampalam AGardiner Mw

P.O.Box 540, Colombo 02.

11. Prema Ariyatunga

Accountant

Ministry of Power and Energy

493/1, T.B. Jayah Mw, Colombo 10.

12. V. Edmond

Retired Deputy Auditor-General

Member

Institute of Chartered Accountants

of Sri Lanka,30A, Malalasekera MW

Colombo 07.

· \

4

13. B. Chandrajith De Silva

Deputy Finance Manager

Ceylon Electricity Board

Sir Chittampalam AGardiner Mw

P.O.Box 540, Colombo 02.

14. R.AB.}. Ranasinghe

Deputy Finance Manager

Ceylon Electricity Board

Sir Chittampalam AGardiner Mw

P.O.Box 540, Colombo 02.

15. S.c. Robertson

Deputy Finance Manager

Ceylon Electricity Board

Sir Chittampalam AGardiner Mw

P.O. Box 540, Colombo 02.

16. S.N. Fernando

Deputy Finance Manager

Ceylon Electricity Board

Sir Chittampalam AGardiner Mw

P.O.Box 540, Colombo 02.

17. M.K. Susila

Deputy Finance Manager

Ceylon Electricity Board

Sir Chittampalam AGardiner Mw

P.O.Box 540, Colombo 02.

RESPONDENTS

, ,

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

Deepali Wijesundera J.

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

: Shyamala A. Collure with

Dilanka Perera for the Petitioner.

D.S.G. Vikum De Abrew for the

Respondents.

: 30th May, 2014

: 04th August, 2014

The petitioner has filed this application seeking a writ of Certiorari

to quash the 1st respondent's act or decision to promote the 14th, 15th,

16th and 1 th respondents as Deputy Finance Managers referred to in

letters marked P10, P13(a) to P13(g) and also for a writ of Mandamus

to direct the 1 st to 8th respondents to cancel the said promotions and to

remove the letters (P14(a) (b) (c) and (d» dated 16/09/2008 from the

personal file of 14th to 17th respondents.

5

• I

I I i j 1

1

The Petitioner has been appointed as a Class II Grade II

Accountant of the 1st respondent Board on 01/09/2000 (P1 and P2). The

post of Deputy Finance Manager of the 1st Respondent Board was

advertised (P4) and the employees of the 1st respondent were sent a

notice dated 24/04/2008 (P3). The required qualification for the

employees of the 1st respondent was 9 years and outsiders 3 years

service apart from the professional qualifications. The petitioner and 14th

to 1 ih Respondents have applied as external applicants since they did

not have the required 9 years service experience. The 13th respondent

had the required number of years and his appointment the petitioner is

not challenging. An interview was conducted but external candidates did

not attend the said interview subsequent to the said interview the 14th to

1 ih respondents were promoted to Class II Grade I as Deputy Finance

Managers along with the 13th respondent on the scheme of external

recruitment.

The petitioner's counsel stated that the 14th to 1ih respondents

were very much junior to the petitioner and that the Ceylon Electricity

Board accountants' Association protested against the said promotions

(PS, P9 and P10). The petitioner has appealed to the Deputy General

Manager (Personal) the 9th to 10th respondents and to the Minister of

Power and Energy stating that the 1st respondent had deviated from the

6

, ,

approved scheme of recruitment and promotion in order to favour

certain officers.

The learned counsel for the petitioner stated that the petitioner

holds a Bachelor of Science Degree and is also an Associate Member

of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka.

The petitioner stating that the 14th to 1 ih respondents were

illegally and arbitrarily and irrationally promoted and that the petitioner

was thus compelled to demand the 1st to 8th respondent through her

lawyer that the said promotions be cancelled within one month. The

letters of Demand is marked P13(a) to P13(g). The respondents have

not replied to the said letters. The petitioner's counsel stated the said

letters (P13(a) to P13(g» were against the petitioner's legitimate

expectations and was made arbitrarily and in excess of jurisdiction and

thus completely contrary to law. He stated the 1st to 8th respondents had

a public duty to cancel the promotions of the 14th to 17th respondents

when a demand was made but it has been refused.

The petitioner's counsel stated that the 14th respondent's

application marked as "1 R2" shows that he has applied as an internal

7

applicant hence he was not even eligible to be called for the interview as

he did not possess the required 9 years service. He further stated that

the scheme applicable for external candidates required 5years post

qualifying experience in executive level in an organization having a head

count of over 100 persons and that the 16th respondent's application

marked 1 R4 shows that this requirement was not considered when the

16th respondent was promoted.

Citing the judgment in Perera and Another Vs Cyril Ranatunga,

Secretary Defence and Others (199 1 SLR 39) the petitioner counsel

submitted that as it was held in the said case the ad hoc procedure

adopted by the 1 st respondent was arbitrary, unpredictable and

unguided by any rule or principle known in advance.

Petitioner's counsel further submitted that the marking scheme

applicable to internal candidates allocates 30 marks for experience and

that the 14th to 1 ih respondents are employees of the 1 st respondent

Board but the 1 st respondent having set its own criteria for promotion of

its employees had zigzagged its way arbitrarily avoiding its own criteria.

He stated that non-disclosure of the marking scheme either in advance

or at the interview was perse a fatal irregularity and the scheme

disclosed to this court for the first time was not proper.

8

The learned Deputy Solicitor General for the respondents stated

that the said marking scheme applied for internal candidates and it did

not apply to the external candidates and in the absence of a marking

scheme the respondents have followed a marking scheme described in

the document marked 1 R8 and evaluated all candidates on the same

criteria. He stated that the petitioner's performance at the interview was

duly assessed and no prejudice was caused. While admitting the

allegation of the petitioner that the 9th respondent went out of the

interview room without waiting for the petitioner's interview to answer a

telephone call the Deputy Solicitor General stated that the other

members posed questions to the petitioner.

The counsel for the respondent stated that the decision sought to

be challenged is not before court and that the letters of appointment are

not decisions, and court would not quash a document which is not

before cou rt.

He further submitted that mandamus cannot be issued since the

petitioner has failed to establish a legal right and duty on the statutory

functionary. He cited the judgments in Borella Private Hospital Vs

9

Bandaranayake 2005 1 ALR 27. Also the judgments in Perera Vs National

Housing Development Authority 2000 (3) SLR 53 and Maritland International

(Pvt) Limited Vs Director General of Customs CA 16/2012(writ) and

Wickramasinghe Vs Ceylon Electrycity Board 1997 2 SLR 377. All three

judgments discuss when a writ of Mandamus can be granted and is not

relevant to the respondent's arguments.

According to the Scheme of Recruitment and Promotion of the 1 st

Respondent Board contained in the General Managers circular marked

as P6 vacancies for the said post can be filled by promotion of suitable

Class II Grade II officers and by appointment externally if there are no

suitable applicants in the Board and there is a marking scheme

applicable to the internal candidates. The respondents have adopted

their own marking scheme at the interview which was not shown or

made aware of to the candidates' therefore one can not say it was a

transparent marking scheme no marks were given to the work

experience of the candidates.

Document marked as 1 R6 which lays down the rules for

recruitments and promotions item No. 13 in page 47 under marking

scheme for promotion of Executives in Class II Grade II to Class II

Grade I to which the petitioner and 13th to 17th respondents belong to, it

10

is stated maximum of 30 marks has to be given for experience. This has

not been considered in 1 R8. In 1 R8 it is titled interview for the post of

Deputy Finance Manager Date of interview August 04, 2008 and five

officers who were in the interview board has signed at the bottom and

they have recommended the promotion of 14th to 1ih respondents. It

does not state whether they have been given marks as external or

internal candidates, which is contrary to 1 R6 which is the scheme of

recruitments and promotions of the Ceylon Electricity Board.

I n the case of Perera Vs National Housing Development Authority

2001 (3) SLR 50 it is stated thus;

"On the question of legal right it is to be noted that the

foundation of Mandamus is the existence of a legal right

Mandamus is not intended to create a right but to restore a party

who has been denied his right to the enjoyment of such right". In

the instant case the interview Board has disregarded the scheme of

promotion and recruitment of the 1st respondent which is a legal right of

the petitioner as an employee of the 1st respondent.

11

I

Petitioner was subsequently promoted but after losing her

seniority to the 14th to 1ih respondents who had only 4 years service

experience to the petitioner's 7 % years. By not considering the

petitioner's years of service according to 1 R6 the petitioner has been

denied the due rights which should be restored by a writ of Mandamus

as stated in the above case.

In Perera and Another Vs Cyril Ranatunga Secretary, Defence and

Others (11931 SLR 39) it was held;

"In the absence of proof of 'substantial demerit' against

senior officers or consideration of special skills or aptitudes

justifying the appointment of junior officers over their seniors, the

test for selection should be the existence of the minimum

competence in a candidate to discharge the duties of the higher

post and any officer having such competence would be entitled to

appointment, in order of seniority': In the instant case the procedure

adopted by the 1st respondent was unpredictable and not guided by any

rule or principle therefore it becomes arbitrary.

12

I

· .

For the afore stated reasons this court decides that the petitioner

is entitle to the relief prayed for in prayer (d) and (e) of the petition. The

prayer (d) and (e) of the petition is allowed.

~J~~

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

13