==== BLOCKS ==== 

1 I f i

1 IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. 21- 22/2009

1. Kodituwakkulage Pradeep

Samantha Alias Fredie

2. Panangalage Don Nilanka

H.C. Colombo 861/2002

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

The Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

RESPONDNET

A.K. Chandrakanth for the 1st Accused-Appellant

Neranjan Jayasinghe for the 2nd Accused-Appellant

Wasantha Nawaratne Bandara P.C, A.S.G. for the Respondent

09.05.2014

30.05.2014

1

f

I

2

GOONERATNE J.

The two Accused-Appellants were indicted for the murder of one

Atulugamage Dimuthu Dilrukshan Silva. Both Accused were convicted of murder

and sentenced to death. At the hearing before this court learned counsel who

appeared for the 1st Accused-Appellant informed this court that he does not wish

to challenge the conviction and would only mitigate the sentence. However the

2nd Accused-Appellant did not follow suit but challenged both the conviction and

sentenced, and indicted to court that the 2

nd Accused-Appellant was only 16 years

old on the date of incident. Learned counsel also produced a certified copy of the

Birth Certificate of the 2

nd Accused-Appellant. Learned Additional Solicitor

General Mr. Bandara P.e. appeared for the Attorney General did not object to this

application.

The case of the prosecution very briefly is that witness No.1, the

deceased's mother testified that the deceased use to visit her periodically and on

the day of the incident he had come to see her and had gone to a nearby

boutique. The witness had been looking at her sons movement from the time the

deceased left the house and got on to the road to proceed to the boutique. Then

3

after a while the witness saw the 2

nd Accused attacking the deceased with a club,

and when the deceased fell on the ground the 1st Accused attacked and stabbed

the deceased with a knife. The witness also state that she ran closer to the place

of incident and had seen the entire incident in close proximity. It is also in

evidence that the 1st Accused attacked on the forehead was clearly witnessed by

the mother of the deceased.

The learned counsel for the 2nd Accused-Appellant based his

argument on the footing that the 2

nd Accused-Appellant had no murderous

common intention. He referred to certain sequences of evidence to demonstrate

that it differ in certain aspects. In that respect referred to the evidence at pg.

133/134 suggesting that the witness could not identify, and also about the

incident. Then again at pg. 141 the aspect of identifying the club used to commit

the offence. The learned counsel for 1st Accused-Appellant as observed above

only concentrated on the sentence and submitted to court that a lesser sentence

should be imposed on the 1st Accused-Appellant.

The learned Additional Solicitor General in his address to court

emphasized on the following:

(a) Defence never touched on motive and whereas the suggested items of

evidence based on motive, highlighted at pg. 106 & 112, i.e deceased

II

· ,

4

intervened and stopped a fight on an earlier occasion where the Accused

were involved. As such Accused were angry about it.

(b) Not even a suggestion was put to witness No.1, to falsely implicate the

accused.

(c) The main witness's evidence corroborate in all respects.

(d) 1st Accused pleaded guilty to the charge.

(e) The evidence of the main witnesses truthfulness and no contradiction,

omissions surfaced during the course of the trail.

(f) Main witness's evidence corroborated with medical evidence i.e injury

No.7.

(g) 1st & 2nd Accused absconded and surrendered to court.

In all the facts and circumstances of this case, I am of the view that

there are no proper acceptable grounds for this court to intervene and

interfere with the Judgment of the High Court Judge. Learned counsel for both

Accused-Appellants have not been able to convince this court to favour both

Accused to grant any relief other than to urge the age requirement as at the

date of incident. The 2nd Accused-Appellant was only 16 years old. This fact

was not disputed. It is the view of this court that the need to consider

amendment to Section 281 of the Criminal Procedure Act No. 15 of 1979 by

the Amendment Act No. 52 of 1980, wherein Section 11 the words "under the

age of 16 years" has been t

f

i

1

f I f I

t f 1 !

I

5

substituted by the words ((under the age of 18 years. 2nd Accused-Appellant

was only 16 years old. As such court pronounces in view of the sentence of

death.)a sentence of life imprisonment on the 2nd Accused-Appellant. Subject

to above appeal is dismissed. Conviction of 1st Accused-Appellant is affirmed.

Appeal dismissed.

~ £2 ("",,_D"l ~) C----JUDGE OFIHE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL