==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

H.M. Karunaratne alias Danapala.

Accused-Appellant.

Vs.

The Hon. Attorney General.

Respondent.

CA NO.246/2012

HC BADULLA CASE NO. 133/2008

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED &

DECIDED ON:

Sisira J De Abrew J. (Acting PICA) &

P. W.D.C. Jayathilake, J.

Amila Palliyage for the Accused-Appellant.

Thusith Mudalige sse for the Respondent.

06.02.2014.

Sis ira J De Abrew J. (Acting P / CAt .

1

ft

II

\

ffI,

2

Accused produced by the Prison Authorities IS present In

Court.

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted for raping

a girl under 16 years of age and was sentenced to a term of 12

years rigorous imprisonment, to pay a fine of Rs. 25,000/- carrying

a default sentence of four years imprisonment and to pay a sum

of Rs. 300,000/- carrying a default sentence of four years

imprisonment. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the

sentence the accused-appellant has appealed to this Court.

Learned Counsel for the accused-appellant does not challenge the

conviction. However he makes an application to implement the

sentence from the date of sentencing by the learned trial Judge.

According to the facts of this case 46 years old accused-

appellant raped a girl under 16 years of age. Since the learned

Counsel for the accused-appellant does not challenge the

conviction, we do not interfere with the Judgment of the learned

trial Judge. However we notice an illegality in the default

sentence in respect of non-payment of compensation ordered by

the learned trial Judge. According to Section 364(4) the maximum

default sentence that can be imposed for non-payment of

i

f I

t, !! f ~ I!I i

rI

~

t

fII

fIr

• 3

compensation IS two years. But the learned trial Judge has

imposed a term of four years. We therefore, set-aside the said

default sentence of four years and impose a term of two years

imprisonment in default of the compensation. Learned trial Judge

has imposed a default sentence of four years imprisonment for

non-payment of fine of Rs. 25,000 j -. We feel that the default

sentence is unreasonable. We therefore set-aside the default

sentence of four years imprisonment for non-payment of the fine

Rs. 25,000 j -. We impose a term of one year im prisonmen t for

non-payment of the fine. We direct the Prison Authorities to

implement the sentence from the date of sentencing by the learned

trial Judge. The learned trial Judge is directed to issue a fresh

committal indicating the sentence imposed by this Court. Subject

to the above variations of the default sentence, appeal of the

appellant is dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

P.W.D.C. Jayathil~ke, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

Mmj-.

1I

I

Ji1i ftI! ,I