==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 83 I 2000 F

D.C. Colombo No. 474 I DR

Bank of Ceylon, No.4, Bank of Ceylon Mawatha, Colombo 1.

Plaintiff Vs.

1. N adesan Manoharan, 2. Bawathi Manoharan, Are carrying on a business in the name and style of "Glamorutte", At No. 451, Galle Road, Colombo 3.

Defendants

AND NOW BETWEEN

1. N adesan Manoharan, 2. Bawathi Manoharan, Are carrying on a business in the name and style of "Glamorutte", At No. 451, Galle Road, Colombo 3.

Defendant Appellants

Vs

Bank of Ceylon, No. 4, Bank of Ceylon Mawatha,

Colombo 1.

Plaintiff Respondent

I!

~ ! ! I

IIl!l

1II ! III

BEFORE

COUNSELS

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

1st and 2nd Defendant Appellant- Absent and

unrepresented

A.H.M.D. Nawaz DSG for the Plaintiff

Respondent

16.10.2012

23.01.2013

The Plaintiff Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the Respondent)

instituted the said action against the 1st and 2nd Defendant Appellants (hereinafter

referred to as the Appellants) in the District Court of Colombo seeking to recover a

sum ofRs. 3,116,387.15 and the interest under and in terms of the Debt Recovery

(Special Provisions) Act No 02 of 1990.

Accordingly a decree nisi has been entered against the Appellants as

prayed for in the prayers to the plaint. The Appellants, upon the receipt of the said

decree nisi, have preferred an application seeking permission of court to appear

and defend the case. The learned Additional District Judge after inquiry has

dismissed the said application of the Appellants. Being aggrieved by the said order

dated 27.01.2000 the Appellants have preferred the instant appeal to this court.

The Appellants have admitted that they were carrying on a business in

the name and style of "Glamoroutte" at No 451, Galle Road Colombo 3, they were

III

i

I

I!

!

\

3

operating a current account No.0260220306 at Main Street Branch of the

Respondent's Bank and they have obtained an overdraft facility of Rs 2900000/-

on 14.08.1996. The Appellants have further averred that the 1st Appellant who was

also a partner of City Tex Traders had invest a part of said sum at City Tex

Traders, the 1st Appellant had certain problems with the other partners of City Tex

Traders which ended up in litigation and the 1st Appellant was prevented from

carrying out any business activity of City Tex Traders thereby affecting his other

businesses and as a result of the said problems there has only been a delay in

depositing money in the current account of the Appellants.

Needless to say that under Section 6 (1) ofthe Debt Recovery (Special

Provisions) Act No. 9 of 1990 a Defendant shall not appear or show cause against

a decree nisi issued by court unless the defendant first obtains leave from court to

appear and show cause. For this purpose a defendant should disclose a valid

defence. But the Appellants in their affidavit have not disclosed such a defence

other than raising some trivial objections to the Action filed by the Respondent.

On other hand the Debt Recovery (Special Provisions) Act does not

provide the aggrieved party a right of appeal. The right of appeal is a statutory

right. It should be expressly created and granted by the statute.

In the case of Martin Vs Wijewardena (1989) 2 SLR 409 (SC) it was

held that "A right of appeal is a statutory right and must be expressly created and

granted by statute. It cannot be implied. Article 138 is only an enabling Article and

it confers the jurisdiction to hear and determine appeals to the Court of Appeal.

The right to avail of or take advantage of that jurisdiction is governed by the

several statutory provisions in various Legislative Enactments."

4

In the case of Bandara Vs The Peoples Bank (2002) 3 SLR 25 it was

held that "The Debt Recovery (Special Provisions) Act is an Act which has created

special jurisdiction and it is a procedure whereby no right of appeal has been

bestowed on a party aggrieved by a decree absolute."

In the aforesaid circumstances I see no reason to interfere with the

order of the learned Additional District Judge dated 27.01.2000. Therefore I

dismiss the appeal of the Appellants with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal