==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

CA (Writ) Application No.509/2011

In the matter of an application for

orders in the nature of Writ of

Certiorari and Writ of Mandamus under

in terms of Article 140 of the

Constitution of the Democratic Socialist

Republic of Sri Lanka.

Jayakody Arachchige

Kumara Jayakody,

106/14, Outer Circular Road,

Ratnapura.

Dhammika

Petitioner

Vs.

1. Kamalini De Silva,

Secretary,

Ministry of Justice,

Superior Courts Complex,

Colombo 12.

Substituted 1st Respondent

2. Gayana Wijethunga

Assistant Secretary (Administration)

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued on

Decided on

S.Sriskandarajah, J,

2

Ministry of Justice,

Superior Courts Complex,

Colombo 12.

3. Rauf Hakeem

Minister of Justice,

Superior Courts Complex,

Colombo 12.

4. The Human Rights Commission of

Sri Lanka,

No.108, Barnes Place,

Colombo 07.

Respondents

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

Shantha Jayawardane with Duleeka Tmbuldeniya

for the Petitioner,

Janak de Silva DSG,

for the 1st 2nd and 3rct Respondents

09.11.2012

11.03.2013

The Petitioner, by a letter of appointment dated 5/10/2004, was appointed as a

Temporary Inquirer into Sudden Deaths for the town limits of Ratnapura under Section

108 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act No.15 of 1979 by the Secretary to the

Ministry of Justice and Judicial Reforms. The Petitioner was thereafter appointed as an

Additional Inquirer into Sudden Deaths for the town limits of Ratnapura with effect

3

from 1/11/2005 by the letter dated 24/10/2005 issued by the Secretary to the Ministry

of Justice.

The Petitioner submitted that in relation to certain incidents that had taken place

at the Ratnapura General Hospital, the Ratnapura Police came to his residence on

27/10/2010 and recorded a statement from him, informing him that the statement is

recorded as a complaint was made to the Police Station against the Petitioner by Dr. P.B.

Dissanayake, that the Petitioner had threatened to throw acid at him and kill him. The

Petitioner also submitted that thereafter he was summoned to the Ministry of Justice on

the 28/10/2010 and a statement was recorded from him by the 2nd Respondent. After

his statement was recorded, he was given a letter, temporarily suspending his services

as an Inquirer into Sudden Deaths, until the official inquiry into the complaint made by

Dr. P.B. Dissanayake is concluded, and he was requested to hand over his official

documents to the Magistrate of Ratnapura. It is the position of the Petitioner that at the

time he was called for the inquiry at the Ministry of Justice on 28/10/2010, and at the

time his statement was recorded by the 2nd Respondent, the Petitioner was unaware of

any complaint made against him by Dr.P.B. Dissanayake other than the one which the

Ratnapura Police told him. The Petitioner submits that the 2nd Respondent did not

inform him of any allegation against him and he had only inquired about the incident

on 25th October 2010 at the Ratnapura hospital. The Petitioner further submitted that by

letter dated 3/03/2011, issued by the 1st Respondent, the Petitioner was informed that

his services as an Inquirer into Sudden Deaths were terminated with immediate effect.

The Petitioner contended that he was neither served with a Charge Sheet nor was an

inquiry held against him before his services were terminated. The Petitioner was not

aware of the allegations made against him by Dr. P.B. Dissanayake. His complaint to

the Human Rights Commission was turned down by the Human Rights Commission of

Sri Lanka informing him that there was no violation of the Petitioner's fundamental

rights and the Human Rights Commission has closed its file.

4

The Petitioner contended that in the above said circumstances, the termination of the

Petitioner's services as an Inquirer into Sudden Deaths is illegal and against the rules of

natural justice and against the principles of proportionality. The Petitioner claims that

he is entitled to a Writ of Certiorari to quash the termination of his services as an

Inquirer into Sudden Deaths, which is reflected in the document marked P19 dated

3/03/2011, issued by the Ministry of Justice.

The facts reveal that on 25/10/2010, Dr. P.B. Dissanayake had lodged a Police

complaint stating that the Petitioner had, on that date, threatened to throw acid on him.

The Police have conducted an investigation into this complaint and recorded a

statement from U. Pushparani (Attendant), K. Nihal Wickremaratne (Attendant), M.L.

Wijeratna (City Coroner), B.L. Sarath Wimalasiri (Retired), Dr. H.D.M. Sisira Kumara

Dissanayake, Dr. P. Kamal Gamalal, L. Mallika (Retired), Dr. M. Atula Ratnasiri and the

Petitioner. Considering the gravity of this incident, the 2nd Respondent conducted an

investigation and the Petitioner was suspended pending the completion of the

investigations. The Respondents also found that there were numerous complaints as to

the conduct of the Petitioner in the performance of his duties. The learned Magistrate of

Ratnapura, by his report dated 16th November 2009, informed the Ministry that the

Petitioner was not suitable to function as an Additional Inquirer into Sudden Deaths.

After considering all the statements recorded and the report submitted by the learned

Magistrate, the 2nd Respondent recommended that the services of the Petitioner be

terminated for the reasons stated by him in his report. After taking into account the

said report submitted by the 2nd Respondent, Mr. Sugathe Ganlath, then Secretary of the

Ministry of Justice, made recommendations to the 3rd Respondent, the Ministry of

Justice, that the Petitioner was not suitable to function as an Additional Inquirer Into

Sudden Deaths. Based on this report the Minister of Justice approved the termination

of the services of the Petitioner.

5

The Petitioner is not holding a permanent post in the public service. As such,

that there is no statutory requirement to serve any Charge Sheet and/ or to hold a

formal inquiry against the Petitioner, the Petitioner was not paid a salary, but he was

paid only Rs.300/- (later amended to Rs.500/ -) for every inquiry he conducted, in

addition to payment of travelling expenses. In the above circumstances his services

could have been terminated at any time by the Minister for reasons adduced. The

Petitioner was informed of the complaint made against him by Dr. P.B. Dissanayake,

and the Petitioner's conduct was also been observed and a report was called from the

Magistrate of Ratnapura, and he too recommended that the Petitioner is not suitable to

hold the said post. Under these circumstances the termination of the services of the

Petitioner as an Inquirer into Sudden Deaths is justified. In the above circumstances the

Petitioner's claim that he is entitled for a Writ of Certiorari to quash the decision to

terminate his services has no basis and, therefore, this Court dismisses this Application

without costs.

President of the Court of Appeal