==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 624/2001(F)

D.C. Colombo Case No. 17515/L

Before

Counsel

Argued on

Janeetha Martel Loren Perera nee

Coorey of No.8, Block M.

Government Flats,

Bambalapitiya, Colombo 4.

Plaintiff-Appellant

Vs.

1 (a) Weerasinghe Arachchige Amarawathie 2(a) Karunawathie Ranasinghe 3(a) M.W. Dharmawathie 4(a) Princy Priyadarshanie Perera 5. Henry Lenard Perera

All of No. 1600, Cotta Road,

Colombo 8.

Defendant-Respondents

W.L.R. Silva, J. and

A.W.A. Salam, J.

Gamini Marapana P.C. with Navin Marapana and Keerthi Gunawardane for the Plaintiff-Appellant.

N.R.M. Daluwatte P.C. with Daya Guruge for the Defendant-Respondents.

06.12.2010,02.12.2010 and 05.10.2010

Written submissions tendered on: 15.03.2011

Decided on : 03.10.2011

f I

A. W. Abdus Salam, J.

'J"'he question that arises in this appeal for consideration

1 pertains mainly to the propriety of the two issues read out

and answered by the learned district judge for the first time

while delivering the judgment. The said issues have been thus

raised after the conclusion of the trial followed by the receipt

of written submissions. The judgment which is impugned in

this appeal culminated in the dismissal of the plaintiffs action

purely by reason of the district judge electing to raise those

issues at the eleventh hour.

The background to the dispute, as it transpired on the

pleadings, needs to be put it in a nutshell for the proper

comprehension of the crucial point arising for determination

in this appeal. The plaintiffs action against the five defendants

was to seek inter alia a declaration of title to the subject

matter, possession of the same and their ejectment. It is

common ground that the husband of the plaintiff was the

owner of the subject matter at one point of time and upon his

demise it devolved on the plaintiff by virtue of his last will that

was duly proved and admitted to probate.

The 1 st, 2nd, 3rd and 5th defendants in their answer denied

the alleged accrual of the cause of action to sue them and

maintained that the husband of the plaintiff instituted a rent

and ejectment action against the mother of the defendants

and during its pendency, he caused the action to be laid-by on

the pretext that the premises are to be acquired by the Urban

Development Authority. As the plaintiff in this action, never

claimed to be the owner of the premises in suit nor demanded

rent from them thereafter, the defendants urged that there is

no legal basis for the institution of the present action.

rl rl o N o rl m o

u. rl o o N -..... ~ N U) « u

2

In the plaint, the plaintiff set out the alleged cause of action

against the defendants in paragraph 7 which when translated

would convey the following expression ....

7. The aforesaid defendants without any manner of title or rights whatsoever to the said premises morefully described in the schedule wrongfully and unlawfully occupying the same causing loss and damages to the plaintiff in her estimation at Rs 10000/- per mensum.

Traversing paragraph 7 of the plaint the defendants

vehemently denied the contents therein and stated nothing

more or less.

Admittedly, the husband of the plaintiff was the owner of the

premises in suit. The plaintiff has adduced cogent and

overwhelming evidence to establish her position that she had

become the owner of the subject matter by virtue of the last

will of her husband. As has been commented by the learned

district judge in her judgment, despite the fact that the

plaintiff was able to establish her title to the property, since

she has failed" to conform to section 40 (d) of the Civil

Procedure Code the plaintiff's action should fail. (Page 7 of the

impugned judgment)

A careful reading of the plaint reveals that the plaintiff has

failed to plead the exact date or the probable period at or

during which the cause of action is alleged to have accrued to

her to sue the defendants for relief. This is a clear violation or

non-observance of the provisions of section 41 (d) of the Civil

Procedure Code which requires that a plaint in addition to

other requirements should contain a plain and concise

statement of the circumstances of each cause of action and

where and when it arose.

M M o N o ri m o

U-ri o o N :,;:-

N ILl « u

3

I I I i I 1 I

, l l I !

In terms of section 75(d) of the Civil Procedure Code the

answer of the defendant requires him to admit or deny the

several averments of the plaint, and set out in detail plainly

and concisely the matters of fact and law, and the

circumstances of the case upon which he means to rely for his

defence. Even though it was open to the defendants to have

attacked the plaint for non-observance of section 40(d) of the

Civil Procedure Code, they chose not to avail of any such

defence but relied amongst other matters on proceedings No.

RE 4245 and moved for a dismissal of the plaintiffs action.

It is trite law that where a plaint which is not defective ex Jacie

is presented and accepted, and summons is duly served on

the defendants, as has occurred in this matter, the Court

loses its control over the document, and it is usually left to the

defendants to raise any questions as to its legal sufficiency to

support the intended action. It is therefore permissible to

object to the plaint for non-compliance of the requirements of

the law in the answer of the defendant or on certain occasions

by way of a simple motion. However, in this matter

summonses having been served on defendants, they have

chosen not to admit the plaintiffs claim, but to deliver to the

court a written answer as was done by them.

Be that as it may, whatever be the position taken by both

parties in their pleadings the question of fact or of law to be

decided between them are stated in the form of an issue and

the court thereupon proceeds to determine the same. (Vide

section 146 (1) of the Civil Procedure Code). It is to be

observed that the question of raising issues under 146 (2) by

court did not arise at the commencement of the trial.

..-t M a N a M m a

4

The issues thus raised by the parties when translated would

be as follows ...

1. As stated in the various averments of the plaint did the

plaintiff become the owner of the subject matter of the action?

2. Did the defendants from 16.06.1996 continue to remain on

the subject matter challenging the title of the plaintiff?

3. If the above two issues are answered in the affirmative, is the

plaintiff entitled to relief as prayed for in the plaint?

4. (a) Did the husband of the plaintiff previously institute action

against the mother of the defendant in proceedings No. RE

4245?

(b) Subsequently, were the defendants added as parties to that

action?

5. Has the husband of the plaintiff in that action stated that

the mother of the defendants occupied the premises in

question as a tenant?

6. Was the cause of action pleaded in that case for reasonable

requirement of the plaintiffs husband?

7. In· that action, at the request of the husband of the plaintiff

were the proceedings laid by on the basis that the premises

were to be acquired by the state for the Urban Development

Authority?

8. If so, can the plaintiff maintain the present action for the

reliefs sought in the plaint?

It may be useful to take a commonsense approach to ascertain

the rationale behind the requirement of having to plead as to

when and where the cause of action arose. Such a requisite in

a plaint will undoubtedly give the plaintiff or the defendant as

the case may be to admit or deny the jurisdiction (patent or

latent) and also an opportunity to plead the defence as to

rl rl o N o rl co o

5

whether the action is barred by a positive rule of law. It may

also facilitate the defendant or the plaintiff as the case may

be, when there is a counter claim in the answer, to raise a

plea of alibi or such other defence which may fmally useful to

decide the fate of the action.

As far as the present case is concerned there is no such

defence raised by the defendants. They neither pleaded that

the action is time-barred nor their inability to plead to it as

the date of the cause of action is not mentioned in the plaint.

The plea of prescription being the special plea must be

specifically pleaded. In the circumstances, on a perusal of the

answer it is quite obvious that the defendants in their defence

have not been prejudiced by the absence of the particulars

required to be stated under 40 (d) of the Civil Procedure Code.

In other words the main purpose of pleadings in writing under

the CPC is to avoid prejudice through catching the rival party

{\~cW unprepared withAelement of surprise. Nevertheless, the case

under consideFation· when the plaintiff had raised the issue

relating to the cause of action and when it arose the

defendants have not objected to it and taken part at the trial,

cross examined the witnesses, produced documents and the

3rd defendant has given evidence as well.

Moreover, the plaintiff joined issues with the defendant at the

commencement of the trial and one of the issues was whether

the defendants from 16.06.1996 continue to remain on the

subject matter challenging the title of the plaintiff.

In the case of Hanaffi V s N allamma SLR -1998 Vol 1 at Page 73

the Landlord sued the tenant (1 ST defendant) for ejectment. On

the summons returnable day, another person (2nd defendant)

ri ri o N o ri

M o

U-ri o o N ----<:t N \,0 <l: u

6

appeared claiming to be the tenant and moved that he be

added as a party. In the meantime, the 1st defendant died and

the plaintiff was permitted to proceed against the 2nd

defendant. Judgment was then entered against the 2nd

defendant. It was urged on behalf of the 2nd defendant that

the plaint did not disclose a cause of action against the 2nd

defendant and that the judgment against him was bad in the

absence of an amended plaint. Delivering the judgment of the

Supreme Court His Lordship G P S De Silva, CJ, held inter

alia that "there was no reference to the 1 st defendant in the

issues and there was no issue as to whether the plaint

disclosed a cause of action. Once issues are framed the case

which the court has to hear and determine becomes

crystallized in the issues and the pleadings recede to the

background. On the basis of the issues raised by the parties

the crucial issue was whether the 2nd defendant a tenant

under the plaintiff, and that in the light of the issues framed

and the evidence on record the District Court rightly entered

judgment for the plaintiff against the 2nd defendant".

In the case of Pure Beverages Ltd., Vs Shanil Fernando 1997

SLR volume 3 page 202 the facts were that the plaintiff fIled

action for damages that he had suffered damages in

consequence of the consumption of the contents of a Coco-

Cola bottle that allegedly contained parts of a decomposed

worm on 12.6.84. However one of the issues raised by the

plaintiff without objection was that consumption was on

12.6.94. The District Court rejected the application of the

defendant to try issue as to whether the alleged cause of

action ex facie prescribed in law. Upon an interlocutory appeal

being preferred against the said order, it was held by this

court that as to whether the incident arose on 12.6.1984 or

7

12.6.1994 is a proposition of fact upon which the parties are

at variance on the issues that have been settled and accepted

by Court. It was further held that the plaintiff respondent by

raising issue (3) on the footing that the relevant date was

12.6.1994 and not 12.6.1984 (date set out in the plaint) must

clearly be taken to have abandoned the date given in the

plaint and the defendant not objecting to such a departure or

abandonment must be deemed to have clearly acquiesced on

the plaintiff raising the issue giving a new date. Incidentally,

the impugned order in that case was delivered by me in my

capacity as the district judge of Colombo.

Even in this matter, when the plaintiff suggested the issue

relating to the accrual of the cause of action the defendants'

maintained absolute silence which meant, if not their consent,

at least their acquiescence.

The learned President's counsel of the plaintiff-appellant has

contended that the rules in the Civil Procedure Code make it

perfectly clear that the case has been decided on the basis of . . pleadings and on the basis of issues on which the trial

proceeded and there is no provision for any questions of fact

or of law to be raised after the parties have closed their

respective cases. He has further contended that the judge is

required at the commencement of the trial to put in issue the

disputed questions and deal with them and answer them in

the judgment subject however to the reservation that

depending on the evidence placed before court during the

course of the trial, further issues may be raised with liberty to

lead further evidence on the matter. In principle, the

contention of the learned President's counsel appears to me as

quite consistent with the requirement of the law and the audi

alram partem or audiatur et altera pars which literally means

M M o N 6 M m o

u. M o o N -<:t N \D <X: u

8

"hear the other side" or "hear the alternative party". It is most

often used to refer to the principle that no person should be

judged without a fair hearing in which each party is given the

opportunity to respond to the evidence against them.

As has been submitted on behalf of the appellant, the trial had

been concluded and the defendants in their written

submissions had suggested 4 new issues assigning them the

number as 9 to 12. The issues thus suggested in the written

submissions of the defendants pertain to the question of

tenancy. The learned additional district judge having carefully

considered them, quite correctly refused to entertain them as

issues arising from the dispute involved. The basis on which

she has refused the application is that no evidence had been

adduced on those suggested issues.

However, to the utmost surprise of both parties, the learned

district judge on her own volition raised two issues giving

them the numbers as 9 and 10. Issue No 9 which is the

substantial issue raised by the learned additional district

judge was whether the plaintiff had failed to plead as to when

the cause of action arose and if so whether the action is

maintainable. The two issues raised by the learned district

judge at page 9 of her judgment are reproduced below with the

answers given to them.

9. Has the plaint been presented in compliance of section

40 (d) of the Civil Procedure Code? No

10. If the above issue is answered in the negative should the

plaint be dismissed? Yes

On behalf of the appellant the learned President's counsel

complains that the parties could never been asked whether it

was correct to raise such issues, after they have closed their

rl ri a N a rl M a

U-ri a a N "'-~ N <.0 ~

U

9

cases nor were they consulted on the question whether it was

possible for the court to dismiss an action on technical

grounds such as the one raised by the learned judge.

I am in total agreement with the submission that the facts and

the application of the law to this case must be distinguished

from certain cases where a special duty is cast on court, such

as in a partition action to investigate into the title as required

by section 25 of the Partition Act.

In the case of Thilagaratnam Vs Athpunathan And Others SLR

Vol 2 page 66, it was positively laid down by this court

although there is a duty cast on court to investigate title in a

Partition action, the court can do so only within the limits of

pleadings, admissions, points of contest, evidence both

documentary and oral. Anandacoomaraswamy, J. in the

course of his judgement stated that "Court cannot go on a

voyage of discovery tracing the title fmding the shares in the

corpus for them; otherwise parties will tender their pleadings

a11d expect the. court to do their work and their Attorneys-at

Law's work for them to get title to those shares in the corpus."

The discretionary power of the district judge to raise issues

after the closure of the case of all the parties and before

judgment was the subject of discussion in the case of Hameed

Vs Cassim reported in 1996 SLR - Volume 2 Page 30.

Commenting on the discretionary power and as to how and

when it should be exercised, Dr Ranaraja, J, stated that the

provisions of S.149 of the Civil Procedure Code do not

preclude a District Judge from framing a new issue after the

parties have closed their respective cases and before the

judgement is read out in open Court. His Lordship further laid

ri ri o N o ri

M o

U-ri o o N -...... .:t N \!) « u

1 o

down that "It is not necessary that the new issue should arise

on the pleadings. A new issue could be framed on the evidence

led by the parties orally or in the form of documents. The only

restriction is that the Judge in framing a new issue should act

in the interests of justice, which is primarily to ensure the

correct decision is given in the case."

Notwithstanding the fact that the learned district judge was

quite conscious of this decision and that of Cynthia De Alwis

Vs Mrujorie D'alwis And Two Others 1997 SLR- 3-113 as she

has distinctly referred to them in her judgment, quite

unfortunately she had not been correctly guided by the

principles enunciated in those judgments.

The learned district judge was completely blind to the ratio

decidendi in the case of Cynthia De Alwis which was a

decision of this court in respect of an appeal against a

judgment in a partition case. In that case the District Court

held that the Commissioner of National Housing, though failed

to fIle a statement of claim and in the circumstances there

was no justification and provision in the Partition Act to

permit an issue to be raised as to title and interests vested in

the Commissioner. Taking into consideration the nature of a

partition action being an action in rem and that a fmal decree

in such a case being one against the whole world this court

held that the duty to investigate title by raising the necessary

"points of contest" is a sacred duty of the district judge

although it may appear to have arisen outside the pleadings.

It seems that the principle behind this rule applicable to

partition actions stems from the fact that a district judge in

exercise of this sacred duty to investigate title cannot be found

fault with for being too careful in such an exercise as those

proceedings are considered actions in rem and final decree as

..-1 rl o N o rl M o

U-ri o o N ---...

'<:t N <.0 « u

1 1

one binding the whole world notwithstanding certain type of

specified irregularities.

Therefore, as regards a partition action the right of the judge

to step out of the pleadings and documents to frame the

correct points of contest cannot be disputed. However, the

opinion expressed in the same case in relation to a rei

vindicatio action is only obiter.

It is of much relevance to refer to the judgement in

Wickramathilaka V s Marikkar 2 NLR page 9 where Bonser CJ

held that the district judge should not give effect to technical

objections. This was once again emphasized by the often

quoted dictum of Abraham CJ in Velupillai Vs The Chairman,

District Urban Council, 39 NLR 464 where His Lordship

echoed the same principle in a different way with the words of

wisdom that "This is a Court of Justice and not an Academy of

Law". The judges of the present day and the Bar at large

should recall this concept every moment of discharging the

~acred duty jointly cast on them, if they are committed to

achieve expeditious disposal of cases by throwing away

technicalities that may stand in their way.

Had learned district judge properly exercised the discretion

and in fact refrained from raising the two unwarranted issues,

the approach to the resolution of the present dispute could

have been totally different. No doubt, the right to raise the

proper issues is primarily a matter that should be left to the

discretion of the trial judge but in this partiCUlar case the

discretion has not been exercised with a touch of proper

judicial mind or understanding of the correct principles

involved.

rl rl o N o rl

('f) o

LL. rl o o N --....

'<:I" N t..O « u

1 2

I am quite conscious that an appellate court should be slow to

interfere with the discretion of the district judge in this type of

matters but being mindful of the manifest injustice caused to

the appellant and the miscarriage of justice that had occurred,

it is with great reluctance I am compelled to disapprove the

capricious manner of raising the two controversial issues

against all known norms of the law to the detriment of the

plaintiff.

As the learned district judge has categorically stated that the

plaintiff has established her ownership of the property, the

burden of proving the right to continue in occupation of the

plaintiffs land and premises lies entirely on the defendants.

The resulting position in such a situation has been lucidly

explained by His Lordship Sharvanada CJ in Theivendran

Ramanathan Chettiar 1986 2 SLR 219 in the following

manner ..

"An own~r of a land has the right to possession of it and

hence is entitled to sue for the ejectment of a trespasser.

In a vindicatory action the claimant needs merely to

prove two facts; namely, that he is the owner of the thing

and that the thing to which he is entitled to possession

by virtue of his ownership is in the possessIOn of the

defendant. Basing his claim on his ownership, which

entitles him to possession, he may sue for the ejectment

of any person in possession of it without his consent.

Hence, when the legal title to the premises is admitted or

proved to be in the plaintiff, the burden of proof is on the

defendant to show that he is in lawful possession".

As I have remarked earlier the learned district judge in no

uncertain language has disclosed her finding that the plaintiff

has successfully accomplished her task of proving her 1 3

•

ownership to the subject matter and the defendants are in

unlawful occupation of the same as disclosed in her evidenc~

from 16.06.1996. As has been decided by our courts an owner

of immovable property is entitled to enjoy it without

disturbance and without fear of unjustifiable interference from

outsiders and if his enjoyment is disturbed the remedy of

rei vindicatio action is always available.

For purpose of ready reference the relevant passage of the

impugned judgment is given below ...

qa~c gQ»)~ Q)OC)) CDz~ae ~flC)Q)~ ~flC)a qQ6 ~o6a

qa~c CD®)a qz~ Q)C) o.!S»)O 6)Oae Q»)6ccmoc @@Q)

C)~(iC~ CI!!) gG))~ C)~(iC~ O(~ qzaiaai oz~6}@Q)oz ctl;!C)

Q)C)ai ~ao C~)O 6)O®a qCiO)(i(5))Cai gC)(i(5))ai ~flQ)QC

c)6oQ) Ci<5))O<5) Q)O C3'CDJ oze1>i~.@ Q)Qzil96). CiQ)CiO CiOCDcl,

~flaE) 5~c C)o~ ~ qz~ Ci(OCi6~ qa& CD®J ctl;! Q)C)

C~JO 6)O®a ~@c»O ~ 1!Dz~C) ~

5cla>Q)oza 50z(~o C3'~aocl Q)O qz~ oz~6}@6 85@ <5)fl

5~J~ c Q@e1>Cid 40(qz) C)~ C)G)~ooa q~~6C) ~~aocl Q)O

6)Q)c g~.

(pages 6 and 7 of the impugned judgment)

On the own showing of the learned district judge the

defendants do not seem to have established their right to

occupy the subject matter. They have admittedly not

recognized the plaintiff as the landlord or paid any rent from

18.06.1985. In terms of D2 the rent and ejectment action has

been laid-by on that day. By way of a simple reckoning no

difficulty would arise to conclude that the defendants have not

paid any rent or recognized the plaintiff as the landlord or

taken any steps to have them placed as tenants in the shoes

of their mother at least from 18.06.1985. This is an unusual

.-1 ri o N c:i ri M o

U-ri o o N ---

<::t N UJ « u

1 4

r i 1 !

j ! , i J I I

"

length of time (26 years as a today) to keep an owner of a

property in suspense.

If the two controversial Issues are expunged from the

judgment the learned district judge would have had no

alternative but to answer the issues suggested by the plaintiff

and the defendants in the affirmative.

Hence the fmdings, judgment and the decree which ended

up in the dismissal of the plaintiffs action are liable to be set

aside. The learned district judge who heard the case is

ceased to be a judge of the original court and may not be

able to rehear the case. Taking into consideration all these

circumstances, to send this case back to the district court

for a re-trial would mean further litigation, unnecessary

expenses for both parties, and a further mearIingless appeal.

Such a course, if adopted would mean prolonging the agony

which would certainly be unfair and not at all beneficial or

conducive to the best interest of the parties.

As such I feel that justice in this matter be meted out by

answering the issues afresh in the following marmer.

1. As stated in the vanous averments of the plaint did the

plaintiff become the owner of the subject matter of the

action? Yes

2. Did the defendants from 16.06.1996 continue to remain on

the subject matter challenging the title of the plaintiff? Yes

3. If the above two issues are answered in the affirmative, is

the plaintiff entitled to relief as prayed for in the plaint? Yes

4. (a) Did the husband of the plaintiff previously institute

action against the mother of the defendant in proceedings

No. RE 4245? Yes

...-t rl o N o rl

M o

1 5

•

(b) Subsequently, were the defendants added as parties to

that action? Yes

5. Has the husband of the plaintiff in that action stated

that the mother of the defendants occupied the premIses

in question as a tenant? Yes

6. Was the cause of action pleaded in that case for reasonable

requirement of the plaintiffs husband? Yes

7. In that action, at the request of the husband of the plaintiff

were the proceedings laid by on the basis that the premises

were to be acquired by the State for the Urban

Development Authority? Yes

8. If so, can the plaintiff maintain have and maintain the

present action on the reliefs prayed for in the plaint? Yes

For the foregoing reasons, I am compelled to set aside the

judgment of the learned district judge as it had manifestly

ended up in a travesty of Justice and direct that judgment and

decree be entered in favour of the plaintiff in terms of the

reconsidered answerers given to the issues.

Subject to the above this appeal stands allowed. Parties shall

bear their own costs. ~~ ... Judge of the Court of Appeal

I agree.

W L R Silva, J t J;;;

of J Court of Appeal

NTj-

1 6