==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for mandates

in the nature of Writ of Certiorari and Writ

of Mandamus in terms of the Constitution.

W.M. Navarathna Bandara

Ratna Mahal

Marapona,

Rathnapura.

Petitioner

C.A. (Writ) Application No. 279/2011

1. Ravindra Hewawitharana Commissioner General of Agrarian Dvelopment,

Department of Agrarian Development No.42, Sir Marcus Fernando Mw, Colombo 07.

2. Awanthi Senarathne Assistant Commissioner of Agrarian

Development Department of Agrarian Development (Regional Office) Moragahayata, Rathnapura.

3. National Gem and Jewelry Authoriy No.25, Galle Face Terrace, Colombo 03.

4. Ravindra Seevali Wickramasingha Pansalwatta, Marapona South, Rathnapura.

1

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSION ON

DECIDED ON

5. P.G. Senerath Bandara Alvitigala, Marapona, Rathnapura.

6. Palitha Weerasingha alias Pubilis Ganegama,

Helayangoda, Marapona, Rathnapura.

7. Chamila Widyalankara, No.ll9, Marapona, Rathnapura.

Respondents

: S.Sriskandarajah J. (PICA)

2

Deepali Wijesundera J.

: M.V.M. Alizabry with Kusan

Premaratne for the Petitioner.

: Yuresha Fernando SC for 1st and

2"d Respondents.

: S.N. Wijithsinghe for the 4th.sth,6th

and th Respondents.

: oth December, 2012

: 22"d January, 2013

: 22"d February, 2013

Deepali Wiiesundera J.

The petitioner has filed this application against the respondents

praying for a writ of certiorari to quash the decision made by the 1st

respondent on 30/09/2010 marked P17 and also for a writ of mandamus

against the 1st and 2nd respondents to compel them to issue a letter of

clearance in terms of Sec.34 and 36 of the Agrarian Development Act

No.46 of 2000 to permit him to engage in gem mining in the land called

lriyagahavila Kumbura.

The petitioner has made an application to the National Gem and

Jewelry Authority for a license to engage in gem mining in the said land

which was refused. He appealed against this refusal to the Secretary of

the relevant Ministry and it was allowed on 26/10/2005 (marked as P6).

Since the land in question is a paddy land the petitioner applied for

permission in terms of Sec.34 and 36 of the Agrarian Development

Authority Act No.46 of 2000. Permission was granted on the condition

that he had to deposit 1/3 of the proceeds of the sale of minerals with

the 3rd respondent to be given to the parties who claimed rights to the

said land.

The th respondent has made a complaint to the 2nd respondent

that her rights are affected and the 2nd respondent has called the

petitioner for an inquiry. After the inquiry the 1st respondent by P17

dated 30/10/2010 has made order that 4th, 5th and 6th respondents be

put back to possession in the said land. According to these findings of

3

the inquiry the 3rd respondent has suspended the petitioner's mining

license. The petitioner is seeking to quash this document marked P17.

The counsel for the petitioner stated that he owned 2/3 of the

said land and that the 1st respondent has no right to determine the

ownership of the petitioner and that he cannot review his own order. He

also submitted that the 1st respondent has exceeded his jurisdiction in

entertaining and proceeding with the inquiry against the petitioner.

The petitioner stated that 4th, 5th and 6th respondents being co-

owners whose rights were sold to one Kasturiarachchi, cannot be both

tenant cultivators and co-owners. He has cited the case of A.M.P.

Adikaram Vs. D.A.D.R. Somaweera and Another BASL news 115-

6/90 CA 99fl5 where Justice Gunawardena states.

" .............. where there is an owner cultivator to a certain field there

is no possibility of there being an ande cultivator~~

The petitioner submitted that since the said land is a paddy land

an application was made under Sec.34 and the license was issued

under Sec.34 and 36 of the Agrarian Development Act No.46 of 2000.

He further submitted that the 1st respondent had no jurisdiction to act on

the ih respondent's complaint and decide on her rights which has to be

decided by a court of law.

4

The petitioner citing several cases stated that he did not get an

opportunity to defend himself and state facts at the inquiry and that it

amounts to a blatant violation of rules of natural justice.

The respondent's argument was that the petitioner's application

should be dismissed. The respondents denied the fact that the petitioner

was not given a hearing at the inquiry stated that he was duly informed

of the same marking document 2R1.

The respondents also stated that the petitioner has withheld or

misrepresented material facts which is necessary when seeking

prerogative relief.

The respondents have marked the findings of the inquiry held by

the Commissioner General of Agrarian Service date 30/09/201 0 marked

R6 and stated that 4th to th respondents and the petitioner were present

at the inquiry and that the petitioner cannot say he was not given a

proper hearing.

Respondents producing documents P15 and P16 stated that 4th

and 5th respondents have transferred their title and not the "ande" rights

to Kasturiarachchi. They further submitted that the petitioner is guilty of

laches and his application should be dismissed with costs.

5

The license issued by the 3rd respondent and the clearance letter

issued by the 1st respondent to the petitioner had lapsed at the time of

filing this application.

The 4th and 5th respondents are tenant cultivators and the 6th

respondent is a land owner cultivator. The 7th respondent is a co-owner;

title deeds of the 6th and ih respondents are marked as R1 and R2. The

findings of the Agrarian Services Commission after an inquiring dated

07/07/2010 are marked as R4. Apart from these respondents there is a

major shareholder of the said land according to the petitioner and also

the respondents who is one Kasturiarachchi. He has not been made a

party to this action.

According to R9 dated 29/10/2008 inquiry held under the Agrarian

Development Act it was decided that the petitioner did not have any

rights to this land. Report of the Commissioner of Agrarian Services

which was produced with a motion states that the petitioner has violated

the rights of the cultivators and has forcibly evicted them and that it is an

offence under Sec.90 of the Agrarian Development Act No.46 of 2000.

Section 34(1) of the Agrarian Development Act reads;

"No person shall use an extent of paddy land for any purpose

other than for agricultural cultivation except with the written

permission of the Commissioner-General".

6

Section 36( 1) of the Agrarian Development Act reads;

"Where the tenant cultivator of any extent of paddy land refuses

to give his consent to the owner of such extent of paddy land to extract

any mineral resources from that extent of paddy land, the

Commissioner-General may permit the owner of such extent of paddy

land to use an extent not exceeding twenty perches of that extent of

paddy land for the purpose of extracting such mineral resources during

a specified period of time. The permission granted under this section is

permission granted for the use of such extent of paddy land and shall

not be construed as a license permitting the extraction of such mineral

resources".

The petitioner argument that when there is an owner cultivator to

the land there is no possibility of there being an ande cultivator is a futile

argument in this application and the judgment cited in this regard does

not apply to this case since there are so many other co-owners and one

who has not even been made a party to this action.

On perusal of all the documents marked and produced by both

parties and for the afore stated reasons I decide to refuse the

application of the petitioner with costs fixed as Rs. 50,000/=.

7

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

S. Sriskandarajah J. (PICA)

I agree.

PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

8