==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA (Writ) Application No. 60/2012

The University of Peradeniya Peradeniya

PETITIONER Vs. lustice G.W.Edirisuriya Chairman University Services Board, 20, Ward Place, Colombo 7. Mr. E.M.G.Edirisinghe University Services Board, 20 Ward Place, Colombo 7. Mr. Anton Alfred University Services Appeals Board, Ward Place, Colombo 7. Gamini Wijekoon "Green View Garden" Polgolla. The University Grants Commission 20 Ward Place, Colombo 7. Hon Attorney General Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

RESPONDENTS

CA WRIT 60/12

BEFORE : K.T. Chitrasiri, J. &

L.T.B. Dehideniya, J

COUNSEL :Kushan D' Alwis, PC with Kanchana Ratwatte for

the Petitioner.

J.C. Boange for the 1st and the 3rd Respondents.

Dr. S.F.A. Cooray for the 4th Respondent.

Arjuna Obeysekara, DSG for the 5th and the 6th

Respondents.

ARGUED &

DECIDED ON 14.05.2015

K.T. Chitrasiri. J.

Learned President's Counsel for the Petitioner concluded his

submissions.

At this stage, Court observes that the impugned order dated

22.11.2011 marked as P32 filed with the amended petition, had

been signed only by the two members of the University Services

Appeals Board. One member has not placed his signature in that

1

f

order. At the same time, we note that the proceedings found in the

first page of the aforesaid order indicate that the inquiry had been

conducted before Justice G.W. Edirisuriya as the Chairman, Mr.

E.M.G. Edirisinghe as the Vice Chairman and Mr. Anton Alfred as

a member of the Appeals Board. Apparently, Mr. Anton Alfred

being a member of the Board before whom the inquiry was held

has not placed his signature on that document which is the

impugned order of the University Services Appeals Board.

Section 81 of the Universities Act No 16 of 1978 stipulates that

the Appeals Board shall consist of a Chairman, a Vice Chairman

and another member ... ; and

Section 83 (2) states that the quorum for a meeting of the Appeals

Board shall be two members.

However, as referred to above the proceedings before the Board

have been conducted before a 3 member panel, namely the

Chairman, Vice Chairman and the other member of the Appeals

Board. Therefore, the provision as to the quorum referred to in law

does not apply in this instance.

However, the order clearly shows that one of the members, namely

Mr. Anton Alfed has not signed the impugned order. Therefore, it is

clear that the order that is being impugned in this application is ex

facie bad in law.

2

At this stage, it is to be noted that the aforesaid error found on the

face of the record has come into place, not due to any fault on the

part of the 4th respondent or petitioner or the 5th respondent.

Therefore, we 6ecide --to direct the University Services Appeals )---

Board to conduct a fresh inquiry in this connection.

For the reasons set out above, the order dated 22.11.2011 is

quashed. Subject to the above direction made by this Court, this

application is allowed. No costs.

Application allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

L.T.B. Dehideniya. J

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

NRj-

3