==== BLOCKS ==== 

-1-

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA (PHC) No.153/2013 HC Matara Case No. 123/13 1 REV MC Morawaka Case No.17202

BEFORE: K.T. Chitrasiri J.

1. Abeywickrema Dhanapala Saman Sirilal Muththetugodawatte Thapaththala Rotumba

Claimant- Petitioner - Appellant

Vs.

Officer in Charge

Police Station Pitabeddara

Plaintiff - Respondent -Respondent

The Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department Colombo 12

Respondent -Respondent

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne, J.

Counsel: A.I. Irfana - for the Appellant

Anoopa de Silva, SSC - for the two Respondents

-2-

Argued on: 17.9.2014

Decided on: 11.11.2014

Malinie Gunaratne, J.

A confiscation inquiry had been held by the learned Magistrate of

Morawaka regarding the vehicle bearing No. SP LE 3153 and after inquiry,

by her order dated 28.08.2013, the learned Magistrate had ordered the

confiscation of the said vehicle.

Aggrieved by this Order, the Appellant filed an application in revision

(HCA 123/2013) in the High Court of the Southern Province, Holden in

Matara. On 08.l0.2013, learned Judge of the High Court made order

dismissing the revision application and affirmed the order of the learned

Magistrate dated 28.08.2013.

Being aggrieved by the said order made by the learned Judge of the

High Court Matara, the appellant has come before this Court, seeking to set

aside the order dated 08.10.2013 of the learned High Court Judge Matara and

the order dated 28.08.2013 made by the learned Magistrate of Morawaka.

The facts of this appeal were not disputed and it was common ground

that the Pitabeddara Police had instituted proceedings in the Magistrate Court

of Morawaka against the accused for possessing and transporting 38 Jak

(Koss) logs valued at Rs.2,490/50 on 29.03.2011 without a lawful permit and

thereby committing an offence punishable under the Forest Ordinance. The

accused was convicted on his own plea by the learned Magistrate. Thereafter,

II

r!t iI I II

-3-

the learned Magistrate has proceeded to confiscate the vehicle No.SP LE

3153, after an inquiry in terms of the provisions contained in the Forest

Ordinance as amended subsequently.

I will now refer to Section 40 in the Forest Ordinance upon which the

confiscation of the vehicle had been made.

Section 40 of the Forest Ordinance, states as follows:

(1) Where any person is convicted of a forest offence-

(a) All timber or forest produce which is not the property of the State

in respect of which such offence has been committed; and

(b) all tools, vehicles, implements, cattle and machines used In

committing such offence,

shall in addition to any other punishment specified for such offence, be confiscated by Order of the convicting Magistrate:

"Provided that in any case where the owner of such tools, vehicles, implements and machines used in the commission of such offence, is a third party, no Order of Confiscation shall be made if such owner proves to the satisfaction of the Court that he had taken all precautions to prevent the use of such tools, vehicles, implements,

cattle and machines, as the case may be, for the commission of the offence".

The learned Counsel for the appellant submitted that the appellant has

specifically stated in his evidence that he had no knowledge about the

transportation of timber and accordingly he submitted that the appellant had

-4-

established that the illegal transportation of timber has taken place without his

knowledge.

I will now draw my attention to the evidence which the appellant had

given at the inquiry. The appellant in his evidence has stated that on that

particular day, at 8.00 a.m. he sent the vehicle to the service station through

his driver (the accused in the main case). Further he has stated that, in the

evening while he was at home, a Police Officer of Pitabeddara Police Station,

informed him that his vehicle has been taken into police custody for

transporting timber illegally. It is significant to note that, although he has

sent the driver at 8.00 a.m. to the service station, he has not made an attempt

to inquire about the vehicle until the Police Officer came in the evening to his

home and informed him that his vehicle had been taken to police custody. In

cross examination he has stated that he requested the driver to go to the

service station and he will come to the service station with the money. But he

has not stated the reason why he could not go with the money.

Further the appellant has stated that he had instructed the driver not to

engage in any illegal activities. But it is important to note that he has not

stated even a single word, that he had taken necessary precautions to prevent

an offence being committed by using his vehicle. He has only stated that he

had no knowledge or participation in the commission of the offence.

Is it sufficient for the owner merely to say that he was not aware or that

he had no knowledge that the vehicle was used in the commission of the

offence and instructions had been given to the driver not to use the vehicle for

illegal purposes? The answer to this question is purely in the negative.

-5-

Giving mere instructions or stating that the vehicle had been used for

the commission of the offence without his 1 her knowledge is not sufficient in

order to discharge the burden embodied in the proviso to Section (40) (1) of

the Forest (Amendment) Act.

The appellant cannot escape liability by stating that he was not aware

or he had no knowledge that the vehicle was used in the commission of the

offence. He must show that he had taken all precautions available to prevent

the use of the vehicle for the commission of the offence. ( Vide Mary Mati Ida

Silva vs. Inspector of Police Habarana and The Finance Company PLC vs.

Agampodi Mahapedige Priyantha Chandana and others).

The learned Magistrate has considered the provision laid down in

Section (40) (1) of the Forest (Amendment) Act and has come to the

conclusion that the Court has a discretion to confiscate a vehicle after an

inquiry, on the basis that the owner of the vehicle had not been able to take

every possible step to prevent the committing of the offence in question.

Counsel for the appellant has referred to an earlier decision pronounced

by me in respect of the same issue. It is the case of CA (PHC) Appeal

03/2013 dated 25.07.2014. According to the material and the facts found in

that case, the Court has decided that the claimant had no knowledge as to

the commission of the offence committed in that case. Thus the said decision

is not directly applicable in this case since the facts and circumstances of this

case are quite different to the facts in that other case.

-6-

Accordingly, when I consider the facts of this case and the evidence

given by the appellant, I am of the view that the appellant has not established

on a balance of probability any of the following matters:

(i) that he had taken necessary precautions to prevent an offence

being committed by using his vehicle;

(ii) that the vehicle has been used for the commission of the offence

without his knowledge.

F or the above mentioned reasons I am of the view that the Order of

confiscation had correctly been made by the learned Magistrate.

I therefore refuse to interfere with the Orders of the learned Magistrate

and the learned High Court Judge.

Accordingly I dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M. Malini Gunaratne, J.

K.T. Chitrasiri, J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL