==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Pathirage Don Abeyratne, Panadura Road, Ingiriya ..

Plaintiff -Appellant

Vs C.A.NO.818/97 (F) D.C.HORANA CASE NO.49181L

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

Gamage Don Chandradasa, Weerananda Mawatha, Rathmalgoda, Poruwadanda ..

Defendant-Respondent

SISIRA DE ABREW,J

K.T.CHITRASIRI,J.

Shiran Lakthilaka with N.J.P.Silva Attorney-at-Law for the Plaintiff-Appellant

Defendant- Respondent is absent and unrepresented

I ST JUNE 2011

23 RD JUNE 2011

\

2

CHITRASIRI, J.

Plaintiff-Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the plaintiff) filed this appeal

seeking to set aside the judgment of the learned District Judge of Horana, dated 11 th

September 1997 wherein he dismissed the plaintiff s action with costs.

Plaintiff in his plaint had claimed damages in a sum of Rs.400,OOOI- with

interests on the ground that a prosecution had been instituted maliciously against

him upon the initiative of the defendant-respondent. (hereinafter referred to as the

defendant) In that plaint it is stated that the plaintiff was prosecuted in the

Magistrate's Court of Horana in the Case bearing No. 75959 on a charge of

contempt of Court pursuant to a complaint made on the 28th November 1986 by the

defendant. The Magistrate having recorded part of the evidence of the defendant,

being the first and the star witness in that case, acquitted the accused (plaintiff) as

there was no sufficient evidence to prove the charge of contempt of court. Relying

upon the said acquittal; plaintiff filed this action in the District Court for malicious

prosecution stating that the said prosecution was a result of the complaint dated 28th

of November 1986 of the defendant.

This appeal being an application to revise a judgment concerning a claim

made for malicious prosecution, I will first refer to the law relevant to the claims

made for the injuria caused by malicious prosecution. In "THE LAW OF

DELICT" by R.G.McKerron (Sixth Edition at page 244) it is mentioned that:

3

"It is an actionable wrong to institute criminal proceedings against any person

maliciously and without reasonable and probable cause. But to entitle the plaintiff

to succeed in an action for malicious prosecution he must show that the institution

of the proceedings caused him pecuniary loss, or that the charges were calculated to

injure his reputation. [This rule is substantially the same in English Law.

Ref.Salmond 717] Thus, a charge which is not of a scandalous nature and which

can result in the imposition of a fine only- for example, a prosecution for the breach

of a municipal by -law prohibiting the parking of motor-cars in a non-parking area

will not ground an action for malicious prosecution, unless it causes pecuniary

loss."

Having explained the nature of the delict of malicious prosecution,

McKerron goes on to mention the ingredients that are necessary to establish such a

delict. At page 246 of the same text book he states;

"In an action for malicious prosecution or other malicious proceedings, the plaintiff

must show that;

1) The defendant instituted the proceedings;

2) The defendant acted without reasonable and probable cause;

3) The defendant was actuated by malice; and

4) In the case of certain classes of proceedings, the proceedings

terminated in his favour."

4

These matters have been discussed by Shirani Thilakawardane J. in the case of

Silva V. Silva as well. [2002 (2) S L R 29 at page 31] In that decision it is stated;

"In a case of malicious prosecution whilst the onus of proof is on the plaintiff, he

must prove on a preponderance of evidence or on a balance of probabilities that:

• There was a prosecution on a charge that was false;

• Such prosecution was instituted maliciously or with animo injuriandi and

not with a view to vindicate public justice,

• There was want of reasonable or probable cause for such action,

• The prosecution terminated in favour of the plaintiff as against the

complainant. "

Having referred to the applicable law, I will now look at the facts of this case to

ascertain whether the plaintiff was successful in establishing the aforesaid criteria

referred to in the aforementioned authorities.

In the complaint alleged to have been made by the defendant to the police, (P 1 )

he had stated that the plaintiff threatened to kill him and also used obscene language

whilst the threat was being made. He also had said that the incident occurred near the

accused box in the court-room. At the trial held in the Magistrate's Court too, the

defendant has given evidence in the same manner which fell in line with the contents

found in the said complaint to the police. However, the contents in the statement to the

police and also in the evidence recorded before the learned Magistrate did not reveal

that there had been any disturbance for the conduct of the proceedings of the

5

Magistrate's Court though the charge levelled against the plaintiff was that of a

contempt of court based upon the contents of the statement made by the defendant.

Subsequently, considering the evidence recorded before him learned Magistrate

acquitted the accused (plaintiff in this case) of the charge of contempt for want of

sufficient evidence to prove the same.

Therefore, it is beyond doubt that the proceedings in the Magistrate's Court

had been terminated in favour of the plaintiff. However, merely because the decision in

the lower court was in his favour, damages for malicious prosecution cannot be

awarded to the plaintiff, unless the other necessary requirements referred to in the

aforesaid authorities are proved on a standard required in a civil suit namely on a

balance of probability.

As mentioned by Mckerron, defendant himself should have instituted action

in the Magistrate's Court for the plaintiff to succeed in a case to claim damages for

malicious prosecution. However, McKerron also state that if the defendant had set the

law in motion having made a complaint against the plaintiff then the defendant could

have been made liable for the delict of malicious prosecution.

Although the case in the Magistrate's Court was a result of the complaint by

the defendant, the learned Magistrate had found that there had not been sufficient

evidence to prove the charge of contempt of court filed against the plaintiff. However,

such an acquittal based on a specific charge cannot rule out the fact that the plaintiff

6

could have had the similar result namely an acquittal, in the event the correct charge

was filed in accordance with the material available to the police. Contents of the

statement of the defendant to the police may have been sufficient to file a different

charge that could have been sustained successfully to obtain a conviction. Therefore, I

am unable to decide that there had been falsehood in the statement of the defendant

which instigated the police to file action in the Magistrate's Court. As no cogent

material to establish the falsehood of the complaint of the defendant that led to file

action in the Magistrate's Court, it is impossible to conclude that the defendant set the

law in motion to prosecute the plaintiff.

Moreover, it is a fact that the filing of charges had been done solely by the

police and the defendant had no hand in deciding upon the charges that were to be filed.

This proposition is supported by looking at the dates relevant to the incident as well.

Charge of contempt of court under the provisions of the Judicature Act was filed only

on the 15th of May 1990 whereas the complaint which led to file the same was made on

the 28th November 1986, leaving a gap of nearly three and half years. Such a

background also shows that the defendant had had no authority to decide upon the

charges filed. Hence, it is my view that the contents of the complaint of the defendant

had not been properly considered by the police when filing the charge of contempt

though it was the starting point to commence police investigations. In the absence of

any participation by the defendant in filing the charges, he cannot be held delictually

liable for having prosecuted the plaintiff maliciously.

7

Such a background also shows that the defendant by making the complaint

against the plaintiff had not acted maliciously. More importantly, it is clear that the

defendant was not at fault as far as the filing of the charge of contempt of court against

the plaintiff is concerned. Accordingly, since there was no sufficient evidence to

establish wrongful intent (animus injuriandi) or dolus on the part of the defendant,

liability under actio injuriarum cannot be imposed on him.

In the circumstances, it is my considered opinion that the plaintiff had not

established the necessary ingredients to prove his case for damages. Hence, I hold that

the learned District Judge had correctly dismissed the plaint of the plaintiff.

Learned Counsel for the plaintiff also had argued that the defendant had

stated falsehood to the police as there had been an animosity between the parties.

However, truth of the statement of the defendant which led to prosecute the plaintiff

cannot be ascertained since the Magistrate had terminated the proceedings on the basis

that the charge was defective even before the defendant finished with his evidence in

chief without looking at the facts. Mere presence of animosity between the parties

cannot be a deciding factor to determine the correctness of the statement in issue.

Hence, I am unable to agree with the said contention of the learned Counsel for the

appellant.

Learned Counsel for the plaintiff also submitted that the learned District

Judge had answered the issues No.2 and No.8 in the opposite direction although both

those issues raise the same question and had contended that such a position cannot co-

8

exist. Plain reading of the two issues do not seem to contain the same question as

suggested when one look at the two issues. The Issue No.2 have been framed to prove

that the case in the Magistrate's Court was filed pursuant to the complaint made by the

defendant whilst the issue No.8 is directed to establish whether the charge filed in the

Magistrate's Court was in accordance with the contents of the complaint made by the

defendant. Therefore, it is my view that it is incorrect to argue that the aforesaid two

issues raised, pose the same question.

F or the aforesaid reasons, I dismiss the appeal with costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

SISIRA DE ABREW, J

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL