==== BLOCKS ==== 

, .

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA LA 107/2000 F

DC Kalutara 4677/P

Before

In the matter of an application for

leave to appeal

Olin Mendis"

76, Police School Road,

Nagoda, Kalutara

Defendant-Petitioner

Vs.

WSillinona,

81,Abrew Road,Kalutara

Plaintiff-Respondent

S.Aidis de Silva, ,

Mahawaskaduwa,

Waskaduwa and others

Defendant-Respondent

A.W.A. Salam, J.

Counsel M R de Silva with Pubudini Wickramaratna for the

defendant-petioner, lasitha Chaminda 3A defendant-respondent, Kaushalya

Navaratna for 29A defendant-respondent and C Ladduwahetti for the 28th defendant-

respondent .

Decided on 03.06.2011

• •

• A W A Salam,J

'J"'his is an interlocutory appeal to set aside an order

1 confirming the scheme of partition prepared by

the commissioner and admittedly leave has so far not

been obtained. Briefly the facts are that the plaintiff-

respondent instituted partition action in respect of the

corpus known as Dombagahawatta and judgment and

interlocutory decree were entered on 8.1.1996 to

partition the land among the co-owners as set out in the

interlocutory decree. Subsequently, Mr W.S.C.Vithana,

the commissioner prepared a scheme of partition

bearirig No.426 produced in these proceedings as P2.

According to the scheme of partition suggested by the

commissioner lot 5 has been suggested to be given to

32nd defendant-petitioner whilst lot 7 with the house

had been suggested to be given to the 12 defendant. The

main grievance of the petitioner is that all the sides of

the house on lot 7 other than the south-west opens on

to the petitioner's land which is lot 5.

2

I [ I , I i I I

f l I

I

j , ! t

i L

.i ,

In this matter since one of the boundaries of the subject

matter is the seashore, the parties who have been

allotted shares by the interlocutory decree have been

apportioned their lots adjacent to the seashore by the

commIssIoner.

At the stage of argument it came to light that the

buildings on the corpus, particularly the building on lot

5 in P2 had completely got washed away as a result of

the Tsunami. In any event, it is trite law the scheme of

partition of the commission should not lightly be

interfered with unless sufficient grounds are shown. In

this matter the commissioner has made every possible

endeavour to suggest an equitable and reasonable

division of the land and therefore the order of the

learned district judge confirming the plan should not be

interfered with. For these reasons the leave appeal

under consideration stands refused.

There shall be no costs.

4~·· Judge of the Court of Appeal

3