==== BLOCKS ==== 

\~

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 136/2010 H.C. Ratnapura Case No. 02/2009

Seepadalage Sumathipala, Akarella, Ihala Udagama, Openayake.

Accused-Appellant

Vs

Republic of Sri Lanka.

Respondent.

C.A. No. 136/2010 H.C. Ratnapura Case No. 02/2009

Before

Counsel

Argued & Decided on

Ranjith Silva, J. & H.N.J. Perera, J.

Dharmasiri Karunaratne for the Accused-Appellant.

Rohantha Abeysooriya, SSC, for the A.G.

20.03.2012.

********

,

< .'<

2

Ranjith Silva, J.

Accused appellant is present in Court brought In custody.

Heard Counsel for and against this appeal respectively.

The accused-appellant was indicted on 3 counts In the High

Court of Ratnapura; for statutory rape coupled with ins est under

Section 364 A(3)(a) of the Penal Code No. 22 of 1995. The accused-

appellant was found guilty in respect of all three counts and was

sentenced to 15 years rigorous imprisonment on each count to run

consecutively. In addition he was fined Rs. 45,0001= in default 1

year ngorous imprisonment. This appeal is preferred against the said

convictions and the sentences. At the stage of arguments before us

Mr. Karunaratne Counsel for the Appellant took up four grounds of

appeal namely that there was duplicity of charges, that there was no

corroboration of the story of the victim, that the evidence of the victim

was not credible and fourthly that the dock statement made by the

accused appellant has not been properly evaluated. In addition to that

the Counsel also urged that the victim has falsely implicated the

accused appellant. With regard to 1 st ground 'duplicity' we find that the

3

charge reads as follows; the accused committed the offences within a

period of 8 months commencing from the 1 st of February 2006 to 31 st

of October 2006. This is permissible under Section 174 of the

Criminal Procedure Code. At a glance one would wonder whether all

these charges were the same. But we find that in the 2

nd count, the

second incident has been separated from the 1 st count and that has

been expressly stated so in the second charge. The 3rd charge is

completely different and it is a separate and distinct one from the

first and the second. There had been such sexual acts performed,

according to the victim, on more than three occaSIOns but since the

section permits only the amalgamation of three offences at a time the

prosecution has included only 3 charges on the indictment.

According to the evidence of the victim she specifically

remembered the last act and that is how she could remember the first

incident which happened 8 months prior to the last act. It is on that

footing the prosecution was able to calculate the time gap. The joining

of the charges, in our opinion has not caused any prejudice whatsoever

to the accused appellant in his defence.

., ; ! I

4

We find that the Counsel for the accused appellant has

made an attempt to attack the credibility of the witness. Regarding

the Issue of belatedness of the complaint explanations are recorded in

her evidence found at pages 59 and 72 of the brief. When she was

questioned as to why she did not mention this to anybody promptly

she had said that by doing so she feared that she may upset and disrupt

the affair she was carrying on with her boy friend as she feared that

her boy friend would foist the blame on the accused appellant (father)

and desert her. When she was questioned as to why she did not

inform the police in time she had said that her father the accused

appellant was the sole bread winner and were very worried that they

will be deprived of their lively hood. When the victim gave evidence

she was questioned as to why she did not complain to the police

promptly she explained that her mother told her that if she did so

there was no one to look after them, as their father was the sole

bread winner. These explanations cannot be refuted and are reasonable

and logical explanations. (Vide. Ajith Samarakoon V s The Republic 2004

(2) S.L.R Page 209 at page 220 and Paulin de Croose Vs The Queen 71

N.L.R 169.) On the other hand we find not a single contradiction or

omission marked in her evidence. In other words this witness had

5

t~ ,

been steadfast and unshaken in her evidence and could be considered as a

genuine and a truthful witness. The learned High Court Judge had

put so many questions to the victim and finally decided that the

victim was a credible witness.

With regard to the ground of appeal that there was no corroboration

we would like to refer to the following two cases.

Bhoginbhai Harijibhai Vs. State of Gujarat 1983 Criminal Law

Journal 1983 A.I. R SC. 753 .

In Guncharan Singh V s State of Haryana A.I.R. 1972 SC 2661 wherein

Their Lordships of the Indian High Courts have held that to seek for

corroboration as an essential feature is adding insulting to injury.

Corroboration is not the sine qua non for a conviction in sexual offences.

On the other hand we find that there IS medical evidence

corroborating the evidence of the victim. With regard to the fact that

the accused appellant had been falsely implicated we observe that

despite the risk of loosing her boy friend in complaining to the police

and dispute the fact that they would loose their sole bread winner she

had complained to the police. We find that there is no reason for a

6

daughter to falsely implicate her own father. It would be a stigma to

the entire family and the people of that village would ostracize them.

We find that there is no merit in any of the grounds of appeal. It is

worthy at this stage to consider the ground of appeal that the dock

statement made by the accused appellant was not evaluated properly.

We find that the dock statement has to be evaluated in the light of

the totality of evidence and should not be compartmentalized. The

dock statement should not be compared with the evidence of the

prosecution and the dock statement should not be considered as

inferior evidence. In considering the dock statement one has to be

mindful that if the dock statement is neither accepted nor disbelieved

still if it is sufficient to create some doubt the benefit of the doubt

should be given to the accused appellant. What is important here is

to consider the dock statement in the light of the totality of the

evidence and it cannot be considered by compartmentalizing the dock

statement. In this regard I would like to refer to the judgment of

Justice Rodrigo in James Silva Vs. Republic of Sri Lanka 1980 - 2

S.L.R. 167 and the decision in Kamal Addaraarachchi V s The State

2002 1- S.L.R. 312.

7

In VIew of all these circumstances and the reasons we

have enumerated in the foregoing chapters of this judgment we affirm

the conviction and the sentences and dismiss the appeal.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

H.N. J. Perera, J

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

AKN