==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DECMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA 232-2005 KANDY HIGH COURT CASE NO. JURY 1929/99

Bambarunde Yapa Mudiyanselage Wickramasinghe

Appellant Vs. Hon. Attorney General Attorney General's Department Colombo 12.

Complainant Respondent

CA 232-2005

Before

Counsel

Decided on

Sisira De Abrew J.

KANDY HIGH COURT

CASE NO. JURY 1929/99

Sisira De A brew J. Sunil Rajapakshe, J.

Accused-Appellant is absent and unrepresented. V.K. Malalgoda A.S.G. for the Respondent.

16.01.2013

Accused-Appellant is absent and unrepresented.

Chief Jailer of Welikada by his letter dated 7th December 2012

addressed to the Registrar of this Court has informed that the Accused-

Appellant has escaped from the Prisons. Learned Additional Solicitor

General is heard in support of his case.

The Accused-Appellant in this case was convicted for raping a girl

named Polwatte Gallage Shamalee and was sentenced to a term of 10

years rigorous imprisonment, to pay a fine of Rs. 2000 I- carrying a

default sentence of two months rigorous imprisonment and to pay a sum

of Rs. 10,000/- to the victim carrying a default sentence of six months

I rigorous imprisonment. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and

the sentence the Accused-Appellant has appealed to this court.

According to the facts of this case the Accused-Appellant who was

working in the boutique of the father of the victim has come to the house

of the victim and raped her. After committing sexual intercourse on the

girl the Accused-Appellant has threatened the girl not to divulge the

lI III l

2

incident to anybody. Later the principal of her school Neeta

Dissanayake on an anonymous Petition sent to her has found that the girl

was pregnant. Doctor has given evidence confirming the pregnancy of the

girl. At the time of the incident the victim was 11 years old girl. The

accused, in his dock statement, denied the incident. When we examine

I the evidence of the case we feel that there are no reasons to interfere with

the judgment of the Learned High Court Judge. We therefore, affirm the

conviction and the sentence and dismiss the appeal. Since the accused

appellant is absconding the Learned High Court Judge should take

necessary step to arrest the accused. The sentence imposed by the

learned High Court Judge should be implemented from the date on which

the accused-appellant is brought before the High Court or surrenders to

the High Court.

Appeal dismissed.

Sunil Rajapakshe, J,

I agree.

Mm/-.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

I

r I