==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

M.A. Mary Margrate Wanahangoda Hanwella

Respondent-Appellant

Vs

CA (PHC) 68/99 HC A vissawella 73/97

Before

Counsel

1. The Chairman, Road Development Authority.

2. The Executive Engineer, Road Development Authority.

3. The Chairman,

Sisira de Abrew J & KT Chitrasiri J

Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabahawa.

Applicant Respondents

Wijedasa Rajapaksha PC with S. Perera

for the Respondent-Appellant Janak de Silva SSC for Applicant-Respondents

Argued on Decided on

3.5.2011 24.6.2011

Sisira de Abrew J.

2

This is an appeal to set aside the order of the learned High Court

Judge (HCJ) dated 15.12.98 wherein he affirmed the order of the learned

Magistrate dated 10.10.97.

The Executive Engineer of the Road Development Authority

(RDA) , the 2nd respondent, by his letter dated 27.3.95, informed the

respondent appellant (the appellant) to remove the building that she was

constructing as the said building was being built within the building limit of

the Colombo Hanwella road. The building limit is defined in Section 24 of

the Thoroughfares Ordinance as amended by Act No.9 of 1988 (hereinafter

referred to as the Act). He sent a further letter dated 22.5.95 stating that he

would take steps to remove the building as she did not comply with the

earlier letter. The appellant did not comply even with this letter. He

thereafter sent a notice dated 22.7.95 in terms of Section 26 of the Act

directing her to remove the building as it had been built within the said

building limit. Since the appellant did not comply with the said notice the 2nd

respondent made an application to the Magistrate Court (MC) of

Avessawella in terms of Section 26(3)(a) of the Act to demolish the

building. The learned Magistrate, by his order dated 10.10.97, allowed the

app Ii cati on.

3

Learned President's Counsel contended that according to the

notice sent by the 2nd respondent and the application filed in the MC, the

building has been built in the building limit and that therefore the appellant

had not violated Section 24 of the Act. His contention was that the 'building

limit' is an area which is permitted by law to construct buildings. He

therefore contended that the application should have been dismissed by the

Magistrate. Although learned PC contended so, the 'building limit',

according to Section 24 of the Act, is fifteen meters from the centre of the

road in respect of 'A' class road and 12 meters in respect 'B' class road.

Therefore the 'building limit' stated in the notice and the application filed in

the MC is the area where no one is permitted to build any building without

permission of the 2nd respondent. Therefore the above contention of the

learned PC cannot be accepted.

Learned PC further contended that the learned Magistrate had

ordered the demolition of the entire building. He contended that what can be

demolished is only the portion that falls within the prohibited area. I am

unable to agree with this contention when I consider Section 26(3)(a) and (b)

of the Act. Under Section 26(3 )(b) of the Act, person who violates Section

24 of the Act is giveh an opportunity to remove the building. Therefore

when such an opportunity is given, he can remove the part of the building

which falls within the prohibited area (building limit) and claim that

construction of the building had not violated Section 24 of the Act. But if the

construction of the building has violated Section 24 of the Act, the

Magistrate is empowered under Section 26 (3)(a) of the Act to make an

4

order to demolish the building. It is difficult to believe that RDA must draw

up a plan and demolish only the portion of the building that falls within the

prohibited area. If the RDA is going to embark on such a project, it will

definitely cause damages to the remaining portion of the building and will

give an opportunity for the owner of the building to claim damages from the

RDA. If that is so the RDA which is maintained by Government funds will

be compelled to pay compensation for the wrongful act initiated by the

owner of the building. It is difficult to believe that the legislature, by

enacting the Act, intended to spend Government funds to pay compensation

for the wrongful acts of the person who violated the law. For these reasons I

reject the above contention of the learned PC.

Learned PC next contended that the RDA should have produced

a survey plan under Section 32 of the Act indicating the portion of the

building which falls within the prohibited area. In my view production of a

survey plan in Court is not discussed in Section 24 and 26 of the Act. I am

therefore unable to agree with this submission.

Learned PC contended that appellant had not violated Section 24 of

the Act since his building plan has been approved by Seethawaka Pradeshiya

Sabahawa. It is correct that said Pradeshiya Sabahawa had approved the

appellant's building plan. This is evident by the letter dated 30.3.95 sent by

the 3rd respondent (vide page 87 of the brief). But t he said letter reveals

that the construction of the building has exceeded the 50 feet limit from the

building to the centre of the Colombo Avissawella road. The 3rd respondent,

5

by the said letter, has even indicated that he would take steps to demolish the

building. When I consider all these mattes, I am unable to agree with the

above contention of learned PC.

For the above reasons I hold the view that the order of the learned

Magistrate dated 10.10.97 is correct. Learned HCJ was also correct when he

dismissed the appeal filed by the appellant.

Learned PC contended that the affidavit filed in the MC cannot be

accepted as the jurat is wrong. I now advert to this contention. In my view,

this is a technical objection. However I cannot conclude that contents of the

affidavit are false. I therefore reject the above contention of learned PC.

There is another matter that I should consider. The point that I am

going to discuss was not brought to the notice of Court at the hearing of this

appeal. The appellant being aggrieved by the order of the Magistrate dated

10.1 0.97 filed an appeal in the High Court and the learned HCJ, in the

exercise of its appellate powers, dismissed the appeal. It is against this order

that the appellant has appealed to this Court. It is this appeal that is being

decided in these procGedings (vide page 5 of the brief). When the HCJ, in

the exercise of his appellate powers, dismissed an appeal filed against an

order of the Magistrate, the person aggrieved by the said order cannot invoke

the appellate jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal. He has to appeal to the

Supreme Court. This view is supported by the Judgment of the Supreme

Court in Wickramasekara Vs orc Ampara [2004]1 SLR 257 wherein Justice

6

Bandaranayake held: "The Court of Appeal does not have appellate

jurisdiction under Article 138(1) of the Constitution read with Article 154

(P) 6 in respect of the decisions of the Provincial High Court made in the

exercise of its appellate jurisdiction and it is the Supreme Court that has

appellate jurisdiction in respect of the appeals from Provincial High Court as

set out in Section 9 of the High Court of the Provisions (Special Provisions)

Act, No of 1990."

For the above reasons, I dismiss the appeal of the appellant. When I

consider the facts of this case I do not intend to make an order as to costs.

Appeal dismissed.

KT Chitrasiri J.

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.