==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 1109 I 2000 F

D.C. Kegalle No. 2544 7 I P

1. Heelbathdeniya Arachchilage W eeraratne,

Ethiriyagala, Hettimulla. 2. Heelbathdeniya Arachchilage Piyasena, Evunugalle, Hettimulla.

Plaintiffs

Vs.

Udawela Arachchilage Dingiri Mahaththaya, Ethiri yagala, Hettimulla.

Defendant

AND NOW BETWEEN

Heelbathdeniya Arachchilage Piyasena, Evunugalle, Hettimulla.

2nd Plaintiff Appellant Vs Heelbathdeniya Arachchilage W eeraratne, Ethiriyagala, Hettimulla.

1st Plaintiff Respondent

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

Udawela Arachchilage Dingiri Mahaththaya, Ethiriyagala, Hettimulla.

Defendant Respondent

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

Rasika Nilantha for the 2nd Plaintiff

Appellant

S.N. Vijithsingh for the Defendant

Respondent

Upul Kumarapperuma with Udumbara

Dasanayake for the 1st Plaintiff Respondent

04.12.2012

22.02.2013

The Plaintiff Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the Respondent)

instituted the said action against the 1st and 2nd Defendants in the District Court of

Kegalle seeking to partition the land described in the schedule to the plaint. After

trial the learned District Judge delivered judgment to partition the land. Being

aggrieved by the said judgement dated 11.12.2000 the 2nd Plaintiff Appellant has

preferred the instant appeal to this court.

3

At the hearing of this Appeal the learned Counsel for the Appellant

and the Respondents conceded that the notice appeal has not been signed by the

Attorney on record.

I have carefully perused the said notice of appeal. It is clear that the

said Notice of Appeal has been signed by the 2nd Plaintiff Appellant. The Attorney

on record of the said Appellant has not signed the said Notice of Appeal.

The main case record bears the fact that Mr. H. A. Premachandra

Attorney At Law has filed a proxy on behalf of the 2nd Plaintiff Appellant. The said

proxy is still remaining in force. Therefore the said Notice of Appeal should have

been signed by said Attorney At Law of the Appellant. It is well settled law that

when the Registered Attorney at Law is alive and his proxy remains on a record

without being revoked, the Notice of Appeal must be signed by such Attorney and

by no one else.

In the case of Fernando Vs Sybil Fernando and 2 others [1996] 2 SLR

169 (CA) held that "Section 24 of the Civil Procedure Code gives the freedom to a

party to make any appearance or application or appear in Court unless the law

authorized that he should be expressly represented by an Attorney-at-Law. But

once an Attorney-at-Law was duly appointed by the party concerned he foregoes

his rights to tender and sign the Notice of Appeal when the Registered Attorney at

Law is alive and his proxy remains on a record without being revoked."

Supreme Court in Fernando Vs Sybil Fernando and others [1997] 3

SLR 1 held that "A litigant has a statutory right to act for himself unless the law

provides otherwise (section 24 CPC). But so long as an instrument of the

4

appointment (proxy) under section 27(1) CPC of a registered Attorney-at-Law is in

force, a litigant who has executed such an instrument must act through his

registered attorney until all proceedings in the action are ended and judgment

satisfied so far as regards that litigant: while the proxy is in force, he cannot

himself perform any act in court relating to the proceedings of the action. When the

instrument (proxy) is filed, it shall be in force, unless revoked, or until the client or

registered attorney dies or become incapable to act or until all proceedings in the

action are ended and judgment satisfied so far as regards the client (section 27(2)

CPC). Where therefore there is an attorney on record, the notice and petition of

appeal must be signed by such attorney and by no one else; if it is signed by the

party himself or by some other attorney, it is not in conformity with the law and

must be rejected.

The provision m section 755(1) CPC, that every notice of appeal

"shall be signed by the appellant or his registered attorney" must be conferred with

reference to the content and other clauses of the Code. Where the notice of appeal

is signed by the appellant himself when he had a registered attorney on record, the

lapse is fatal and is not curable in terms of section 759(2) CPC."

In the said circumstances I dismiss the instant appeal of the 2nd

Plaintiff Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal