==== BLOCKS ==== 

....

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Attorney General

Vs I. Nissanka Swarnapala alias Chandare 2. Weeramudalige Peelix 3. Mudiyanselage Manjula Samankumara 4. Liyanadurage Dhamasiri 5. Narayana Mudiyanselage Vasantha Accused

CA 20 A-B/2010 HC Anuradhapura 171/2002

Before

Counsel

Argued on Decided on

And now between

1. Mudiyanselage Manjula Samankumara 2. Liyanadurage Dhamasiri 3. Narayana Mudiyanselage Vasantha Accused-Appellants

Vs Attorney General

Respondent

Sisira de Abrew J & Sunil Rajapakshe J

Prasanthalal De Alwis PC with Malaka Niroshana and Diwani Kaushalya for the 1st appellant (3rd accused) Dr. Ranjith Fernando for the 2nd and 3rd appellants (4th and 5th accused)

Jayantha Jayasuriya ASG,PC for the Respondent.

18.12.2012, 19.12.2012 and 20.12.2012 28.2.2013

2

Sisira de Abrew J.

The above named five accused were convicted for committing the offence of

gang rape on VG Sriyani Chandralatha and each accused was sentenced to term of

fifteen years rigorous imprisonment (RI), to pay a fine of Rs.5000/- carrying a

default sentence of one year imprisonment and to pay a sum of Rs.20,000/- to the

victim carrying a default sentence of two years imprisonment. Being aggrieved by

the said conviction and the sentence the 3rd, 4th and 5th accused have appealed to

this court. The 1st and the 2nd accused have not appealed. Facts of this case may be

briefly summarized as follows:

Victim Chandralatha whose husband works in a town called Avissawella

usually sleeps with her children and the mother-in-law in her house. The mother

who lives two miles away from her house did not, on 27.8.1997, come to sleep. On

27.8.87 around 10.00 p.m. Chandralatha went to sleep but woke up little later as

she heard a sound of somebody walking inside the house. When she turned the

light on she saw the five accused inside the kitchen. Somebody among the five

removed the bulb in the kitchen. At this stage 1st accused kept a knife to her mouth

and pressed her to the table in the kitchen and held by her hands. The 2nd accused

too held her. At this time the other three accused were little away from her. The 1st

accused put her on the ground and raped her while the 2nd accused was holding her.

After the 1st accused finished the sexual act, he invited the 2nd accused. Then the

2nd accused raped her while the 1st accused was holding her. After the 2nd accused

finished his sexual act, he invited the 3 rd accused. When the 3 rd accused came near

her, she grappled with him and thereafter became unconscious. When she regained

consciousness she heard somebody among the gang addressing another member in

the following language: "This woman is pretending." Somebody in the gang at this

stage addressed her in the following language: "Do not tell this to anybody. Do not

3

insult us. These things happen in the village." There is no any evidence to say that

the 4th accused and 5th accused uttered any word or did any act. In fact she says that

when the 1st and the 2nd accused were holding her, the other three accused were

little away from her.

Learned PC for the 3 rd accused did not challenge the conviction but

submitted that the sentence imposed him was excessive. The question that arises

for consideration is whether the 4th and 5th accused, in view of the evidence of the

victim, could be convicted for gang rape. Learned Addl.SG citing explanation I to

Section 364 (2) of the Penal Code as amended by Act No.22 of 1995 and section

100 and 113A of the Penal Code contended that the 4th and the 5th accused could be

convicted for the offence of gang rape. Explanation I to Section 364 (2) as

amended by Act No. 22 of 1995 reads as follows:

"Where the offence of rape is committed by one or more persons in a group of

persons, each person in such group committing or abetting the commission of such

offence is deemed to have committed gang rape."

Supreme Court in Sajeewa alias Ukkuwa and others V s Attorney General

(Hokandara case) [2004] 2 SLR 263 at page 285 interpreted this section as follows:

"Accordingly, in terms of the Penal Code (Amendment) Act, there is no

need for a member a group of persons to be held liable for an offence of gang rape,

to establish that each member of the group acted with a common intention to

commit the said offence. What is necessary is to establish that the accused had

been members of the group and had either committed rape or had abetted the said

crime. Once it is established that one of the accused had committed the offence of

rape and there has been aiding and abetting, then all of them guilty under section

364(2) g in terms of the explanation I of the Penal Code (Amendment) Act No.22

of 1995 irrespective of the fact that whether the victim was raped by more than one

of them." I have to follow this judgment as I am bound by it. In the present case

4

three people in the group have raped the victim. Therefore on the basis of the

explanation I above, what is necessary is to consider whether the 4th accused and

5th accused abetted the commission of the act of rape. Abetment is defined in

Section 100 of the Penal Code which reads as follows:

A person abets the doing of a thing who-

Firstly- Instigate any person to do that thing; or

Secondly- Engages in any conspiracy for the doing of that thing; or

Thirdly- Intentionally aids, by any act or illegal omission, the doing of that thing."

There is no evidence to suggest that the 41h and the 51h accused instigated

the 1st accused and/or 2nd accused and/or 3rd accused to do the act of rape. There is

no evidence to say that 4th and the 5th accused by any act or illegal omission

intentionally aided the 1

5\2nd or 3rd accused to do the act of rape. Learned ASG

heavily relied on the 2nd limb of abetment and contended that they (4th and 5th

accused) engaged in conspiracy to do the act of rape. Conspiracy is defined in

Section 113A of the Penal Code which reads as follows:

"If two or more persons agree to commit or abet or act together with a common

purpose for or in committing or abetting an offence, whether with or without any

previous concert or deliberation, each of them is guilty of the offence of conspiracy

to commit or abet that offence, as the case may be."

Thus in order to convict the 4th and 5th accused there must be evidence to

say that they agreed with the 1st and/or the 2nd accused and/or the 3rd accused (1) to

commit the act of rape or (2) to abet the commission of rape or (3) to act with a

common purpose to commit the act of rape or abet it.

In order to prove that the 4th and the 5th accused committed conspiracy with

the 1st accused and/or the 2nd accused and/or 3rd accused to commit the offence of

rape on the victim learned ASG pointed out the following matters.

1. All five accused forcibly entered victim's house in the night.

5

2. The 1st accused threatened the victim and kept a knife near her mouth.

3. He pressed the victim against the table.

4. He removed her clothes.

5. He put her down on the ground.

6. He raped her while the 2nd accused was holding her.

7. The 2nd accused raped her while the 1st accused was holding her.

8. The 3rd accused grappled with her.

9. The 4th and the 5th accused were inside the house when these things were

taking place

10. They left the house saying not to tell this to anybody.

11. They all left the house together.

It can be contended that they all had agreed to enter the house. Did they agree only

on this? Then why did the 4th and 5th accused continue to remain in the house when

the act of rape was being committed by the other three members. Why did the 1st to

5th accused, in the night, enter the house in which a woman was sleeping? Is it to

commit to robbery or theft? There is no allegation that they committed robbery or

theft. When I consider all these matters it is clear that they, before entering the

house, have agreed to commit the offence of rape. Did the 4th and the 5th accused

withdraw when the act of rape was being committed? The answer is no. They

continued to remain in the house until the others raped her. This behaviour of the

4th and the 5th accused shows that they had agreed with the other members of the

group to act with a common purpose to commit the act of rape on the victim or

abet it. When I consider all these matters I hold the view tha,t all accused have

engaged in a conspiracy to commit the offence of rape. Therefore I hold that the

acts of the 4th and the 5th accused come within the 2nd limb of the definition of

abetment. I therefore hold that the 4th and 5th accused have abetted the other

members of the group to commit the offence of rape. Therefore the decision of the

6

trial judge that they are guilty under the explanation I to section 364 (2) of the

Penal Code as amended by Act No 22 of 1995 is correct. _

When the victim regained consciousness she heard somebody among the

4 to 5 people (group which entered the house) saying that she was pretending. The

learned trial judge concluded that these words were uttered by the 4th and the 5th

accused. This is a misdirection committed by the learned trial judge.

The 1st accused in his dock statement admitted that on the day of the

incident around 10.30 p.m he went to the house of the victim as he saw a male

person inside this house and he came out when he saw the victim sleeping with

somebody. The 2nd and the 3 rd accused in their dock statement said they too had to

say the same thing. But the 4th accused and the 5th accused said they did not

commit any offence. The learned trial judge at page 193 of the brief concluded that

all five accused admitted that they were inside the house of the victim at the time

alleged by the victim. But the 4th and the 5th accused, in their dock statements, did

not admit such a thing. This is another misdirection committed by the learned trial

judge. But I have earlier held that the decision of the trial judge convicting the 4th

and the 5th accused of the offence was correct. When the Court of Appeal holds

that the trial judge was correct convicting accused of the charge, should their

conviction be set aside on the basis of misdirection? In such a situation Court of

Appeal should consider the proviso to Section 334 of the Criminal Procedure Code

which reads as follows: "Provided that the court may, notwithstanding that it is of

opinion that the point raised in appeal might be decided in favour of the appellant,

dismiss the appeal if it considers that no substantial miscarr~age of justice has

actually occurred." When I consider the evidence and the misdirections, I hold that

the misdirections have not occasioned a failure of justice. I therefore apply the said

proviso and affirm the conviction of the 4th and 5th accused.

Learned PC for the 3rd accused submitted that term of 15 years imposed

7

on the 3rd accused was highly excessive. But I note that he was convicted for the

offence of gang rape. According to the evidence led at the trial the 3 rd accused did

not hold the victim when the 1st and the 2nd accused committed the act of rape.

Learned PC for the 3rd accused without wasting time of court honourably admitted

that his client was guilty of the offence. Considering all these matters I ,Set aside

the term of 15 years RI imposed on the 3 rd accused and sentence him to a period of

ten years RI. The fine and the amount of compensation remain unaltered. I have

earlier affirmed the conviction of the 4th and 5th accused. I note that according to

the evidence they did not commit any sexual act on the victim. Therefore in my

view the term of 15 years RI is excessive. I therefore set aside the tenn of 15 years

RI and sentence each of them to a period often years RI. The fine and the amount

of compensation remain unaltered. The sentence imposed by this court on 3rct, 41h

and 5

111 accused should be implemented from the date of sentencing by the learned

trial judge. Subject to the above variation of the sentence the appeals of the

appellant are dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

Sentence altered

Sunil Rajapakshe J

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Judge of the Court. of Appeal