==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA(PHC)APN/RV /17/07

H.C.R.A. No. 658/04

MC Mt. Lavinia NO.648/5/02

J.M.L. Jayasekara, Director General,

Urban Development Authority,

27, D.R. Wijewardena Mawatha,

Colombo 10.

Complainant.

Vs.

Abdul Majeed Mohideen Meerasa, 50/1, Mayura Place, Wellawatte, Colombo 06.

Respondent.

And Then Between

Abdul Majeed Mohideen Meerasa, 50/1,

Mayura Place, Wellawatte, Colombo 06.

Respondent-Petitioner.

Vs.

J.M.L. Jayasekara, Director General,

Urban Development Authority,

27, D.R. Wijewardena Mawatha,

Colombo 10.

Complainant-Respondent.

q-o 00 LI'l lO

o .c

E o '0 u U :J:

c o 'iii '> Q) 0::

r--o o N -r--.-t Z Q. « U

:J: Q. ~

U 1

i

1Itl

Before

Counsel Petitioner.

And Now Between

Abdul Majeed Mohideen Meerasa, 50/1, Mayura Place, Wellawatte, Colombo 06.

Respondent-Petitioner-Petitioner.

Vs.

J.M.L. Jayasekara, Director General,

Urban Development Authority,

27, D.R. Wijewardena Mawatha,

Colombo 10.

Complainant-Respondent-Respondent.

: A.W.A. Salam, J. &

Sunil Rajapakshe, J.

D.H. Siriwardane for Respondent-Petitioner-

Neil Unamboowe DSG for Complainant-Respondent-Respondent.

Argued on : 12.07.2013 & 31.08.2013

Decided on : 09.09.2013

A.W.A. Salam, J.

This is an application to have the order of the learned and High Court

judge dated 7 February 2006 and the learned Magistrate dated 1

October 2002 revised and set aside. The impugned order of the learned

Magistrate has been made under the Provisions of the State

"'" o -00 L/') \.0

o .0

E o o u u :c

c:: o 'Vi 'S:

OJ 0::: " o o N -" ..-i Z a... « G :c a... ~ U

2

r

Lands (Recovery of Possession) Act No 7 of 1979, allowing the

complainant-respondent-respondent (respondent) to obtain vacant and

peaceful possession of the State land and premises that were the

subject matter of the application before the learned Magistrate. The

impugned judgment of the learned High Court judge has been entered

consequent upon the respondent-petitioner-petitioner (petitioner)

invoking the revisionary jurisdiction of the Provincial High Court to

challenge the order of the learned Magistrate.

The order of the learned and Magistrate was challenged in the High

Court inter alia on the following grounds.

1. That the application of the complaint-respondent-

respondent, (respondent) namely the competent authority

is contrary to law.

2. The respondent had no locus standi to file the said

application in the Magistrate's Court.

3. The respondent had not invoked the jurisdiction of the

Magistrate's Court, under and in terms of the procedure

established by law.

4. The learned and Magistrate had no jurisdiction to

entertain the said application and/or inquire into the same

and/or to make any order thereafter.

As stated above, quite remarkably the order of the learned and High

Court judge dismissing the revision application has been made as far

back as in February 2006. However, the revision application in question

has been made on 9 February 2007 nearly one year after the impugned

""" ~

LI'l \0

o .c

E o (5 u u :::r::

c o 'Vi 'S;

Q) c::::

r--o o N -r--.-I Z c.. « U :::r:: c.. ~

U 3

order of the High Court judge had been entered. Besides, the petitioner

has not supported the application for notices on the revision

application before this court for nearly 6 years. The unexplained

lethargic attitude of the petitioner by itself is a ground which

disqualifies him from seeking the prerogative remedy to invoke the

revisionary jurisdiction of this court.

In the revision application the petitioner states that he is diagnosed to

be a patient with hypertension and paralysis for nearly 3 Yz years and

right now under medication. He states that he cannot do his work on

his own and most of the time he is confined to bed. He further states

that owing to his acute illness and partial paralysis his livelihood as a

small-time businessman has been affected which in turn rendered him

helpless and destitute and that he is unable to generate any income.

The petitioner further states that his wife who is a teacher by

profession had undergone by-pass surgery and she too is ill and under

medication. Whatever may be the unfortunate medical condition of the

petitioner and his wife it may be, the particular Legislation under which

the eviction of the petitioner is sought being a draconian law which

requires strict compliance of the Provisions of law to continue in

possession of the land in question, the petitioner is under a legal

obligation to establish that he is in possession or occupation of the land

in question upon a valid permit or other written authority of the State

granted in accordance with any written law and that such permit or

authority is in force and not revoked or otherwise rendered invalid.

<:t o -;;0

LI'l I.D

o .c

E o a u u :r:

c:: o 'Vi '::;

(l.I a:

,...... o o N r:::-

..-t Z a.. « U :r: a.. ~ U 4

NR/-

The document produced by the petitioner to justify his occupation is

marked X3 dated 29 December 1979. The caption to the document

reads "EXPRESSION OF CONSENT FOR BILATERAL DEVELOPMENT OF

THE NEW DEVELOPMENT SCHEME UNDER THE HOUSING AND URBAN

DEVELOPMENT MINISTRY".

The said document produced by the petitioner does not constitute a

valid permit or other written authority of the State granted in

accordance with any written law as contemplated by the Provisions of

State Lands (Recovery of Possession) Act.

In the circumstances, I have no alternative but to refuse entertained the

revision application filed by the petitioner and accordingly I refuse

notice to be issued on the respondents.

There shall be no costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Sunil Rajapakha, J

I agree

Judge of the Court of Appeal

<:t ~

LIl U)

o .0

E ..Q o u U :I:

c o "iii "::;

OJ 0:::,

"-8 N -"-..... z c.. « U

:I: c.. <C u 5