==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA (Writ) 670/10

Don. Gamini Dissanayake, No. E/11 /C, Sri Wickrama Mawathe, Mattakkuliya, Colombo 15. Ranuluge Shelton Fonseka, No.343/3, Nagahawela Road, Kotikawatta.

Petitoners - Vs- Urban Development Authority, 6th Floor, "Sethsiripaya", Battaramulla. The Chairman, Urban Development Authority, Director General, Urban Development Authority, Deputy Director General, Urban Development Authority, All of Urban Development Authority, 6th Floor, "Sethsiripaya", Battaramulla.

Respondents

Before

Counsel

Argued & Decided on

S. Sriskandarajah, J PICA

CA67012010

S. Sriskandarajah, J PICA

A.M.L. Amarasinghe with N. Malkumara for the Petitioner.

15.02.2013

The petitioners in this application were employed by the 1

51 respondent as

Project Coordinating Officers from 18.10.2005. They were appointed on

contract basis and the salary stipulated is Rs. 10,0001- per month. When the

petitioner came to know that the other officers who are placed in the similar

position drawing a higher salary, they made representation to the 3rd

respondent and the 3rd respondent after consideration placed the petitioners

also on the same salary scale that was drawn by the other officers who are

holding the same position in the said authority. This decision was approved

by the board and came in to effect from 01.08.2008. The respondent also

decided that the arrears of salary from 2005 to 2008 should not be paid to

them. The petitioners sought the intervention of the Human Right

Commission for the said arrears and the Human Right Commission has

recommended for the payment of said arrears. The petitioner in this

application is seeking a writ of mandamus to implement the said

recommendation. A writ of mandamus will lie when the petitioners have a

1

legal right and there is a corresponding statutory duty on the part of the

respondent to perform the said duty. In the instant case the petitioners have

got only a recommendation from the Human Right Commission for the

payment of arrears. This will not create a legal right for the Petitioners to

claim the arrears and at the same time the respondent does not have a

corresponding legal duty to pay the said arrears. In these circumstances, this

court dismisses this application without costs.

President of the Court of Appeal

Naf-

2