==== BLOCKS ==== 

In the Court of Appeal of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

CA 968/96 F DC Batticaloa 3243/Misc.

Before: A W A Salam J

COUNSEL: Nizam Kariapper

for the Plaintiff-Appellant.

M I A vvaumma, Division No 3, Kattankudy

Plaintiff-Appellant

Vs

M I Ahamed Lebbe, Division No 6, Kattankudy

Defendan t -Responden t

Defendan t -Responden t absent and unrepresented.

Argued on: 24.01.2011

Written Submissions filed on: 21.02.2011.

Decided on: 02.06.2011.

- 2 -

A W A Salam,J

The facts that led to this appeal briefly are that the

I plaintiff by her plaint dated 7th March 1989 claimed the

right to draw water from a common well based on

acquisition of such right by virtue of deed No 18468 dated

7th September 1967 produced at the trial marked PI.

Both the plaintiff and the defendant are owners of two

adjoining premises bearing assessment No's 116 and 120

respectively. The plaintiff alleged that the defendant broke

the door on the wall of the plaintiffs property leading to

the common well and blocked it by constructing a kitchen

on the path thereby depriving her of the right to use the

well. Admittedly, both of them are siblings and they

became the owners of said premises by right of gift made

by their father.

The pivotal question that arose for consideration at the

trial was whether the plaintiff had abandoned the right to

draw water from the common well. At the trial the plaintiff

gave evidence and stated that she had given the premises

in question on rent from the time it was gifted to her by

the father and that she never exercised the right to draw

CA 968/96F Batticaloa 3243/Misc Judgment 02.06.2011

- 3 -

water from the common well. The learned district judge

held inter alia that the burden being on the plaintiff to

establish her right to the alleged servitude, failed to

discharge the same and hence not entitled to any relief.

This decision of the lower court is based on the admitted

fact that the plaintiff had in fact abandoned the right to

draw water from the common well. The plaintiff has never

possessed the property in question by herself. From the

time it was gifted to her, it had been possessed for and on

her behalf by her tenants. As conceded by the plaintiff

none of the tenants had ever exercised the right to draw

water over or across or through the path from the common

well.

As has been clearly observed by the learned district judge,

the servitude of aquae haustus involves the right to draw

water from a well situated on the property of another. By

contrast, the servitude of aquae ductus entails the right of

leading or conveying water across or through the servient

tenement to the dominant tenement and both these rights

have received recognition in the law of Sri Lanka.

CA 968/96F Batticaloa 3243/Misc Judgment 02.06.2011

- 4-

To reiterate the remarkably weak version of the plaintiff,

she had never possessed the property in question by

herself except through her tenants who too had elected

not to avail of the servitude right granted under Pl. In the

case of Fernando Vs Mendis 14 NLR 101, it was held that

the abandonment of a right of servitude to draw water

from a well standing on another's land destroys it, not

only when such abandonment is express, but also when it

is tacit.

The principle enunciated in the judgment relied upon by

the district judge reported in 40 NLR 495 (Don Simon Peter

et al. v. James Fernando) is also worthy of being repeated.

The question that arose for decision in that case was

whether the right of way as accessory to wit, aquae haustus

should be regarded as being abandoned, when the

principal servitude itself is abandoned. Based on what was

stated by Voet to the effect that "Servitudes are indivisible

in their nature and where there are two servitudes-the one

principal and the other accessory, which are due at the

same time-and the principal is abandoned, the accessory

also is regarded as abandoned" (Voet in part VIII. 6, 5) the

court dismissed the plaintiffs action based on the footing

CA 968/96F Batticaloa 3243/Misc Judgment 02.06.2011

- 5 -

that the principal servitude had gone into disuse.

In other word the established principle of law is that where

there are two servitudes consisting of a principal and an

accessory, the accessory must also be regarded as having

been abandoned if the principal is abandoned.

The learned counsel of the appellant contended that the

admission made by the defendant under cross-

examination that there is a common well used to draw

water by all, as per PI the plaintiff is entitled to draw

water from the common well. However, the counsel has

failed to appreciate the principle regarding the burden of

proof in a case of this nature when making his

submissions. In this type of action the initial burden of

proof lies always with the plaintiff. As has been rightly

pointed out in the impugned judgment, the plaintiff has

failed to discharge this burden. It is elementary rule that

the plaintiff cannot legally assert the right she had asked

for relying on an admission of the defendant made under

cross examination as to the existence of a common well.

Noticeably, there is no specific admission by the defendant

that the plaintiff had been using the servitudes in

question.

CA 968/96F Batticaloa 3243/Misc Judgment 02.06.2011

- 6-

In the circumstances, the finding of the learned district

judge as to the failure of the plaintiff to establish her claim

for servitude does not appear to me as faulty or

inconsistent with the evidence led at the trial. As such, I

am compelled to dismiss this appeal. Appeal dismissed

with costs.

~~." Judge of the Court of Appeal

Kwk/-

CA 968/96F Batticaloa 3243/Misc Judgment 02.06.2011