==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 50 I 97 (F)

D.C. Tangalle No. 2071 I L

W eligamage N andaseeli Wamasooriya, No. 29, Government Quarters Road,

Hambantota.

Vs.

Piyaratne Wijeweera, Dickwella Road, Beliatta.

Plaintiff

Defendant

And Now Between

W eligamage N andaseeli Wamasooriya, No. 29, Government Quarters Road,

Hambantota.

Vs

Piyaratne Wijeweera, Dickwella Road, Beliatta.

Plaintiff-Appellant

Defendant Respondent

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNEJ.

Ms. Aparajitha Ariyadasa for the

Plaintiff Appellant

Nimal Muthukumarana for the

Defendant Respondent

20.06.2012

20.05.2013

The Plaintiff Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant)

instituted an action against the Defendant Respondent (hereinafter referred to as

the Respondent) in the District Court of Tangalle seeking for a judgment ejecting

the Respondent from the land described in the 2nd paragraph of the Plaint. The

Appellant has averred that by a deed of transfer bearing No 3026 dated 21.01.1964

he became the owner of the land in suit and thereafter by lease agreement bearing

No.l8893 dated 04.09.1976 leased the land in suit to the Respondent for a period

of 03 years commencing from 02.09.1975 and after the expiration of said lease

period on 02.09.1978 the Respondent was in wrongful and unlawful occupation of

the said land.

The Respondent has admitted the said lease agreement. He has further

averred that after the expiration of the lease period he vacated the said premises

and handed over the vacant possession thereof to the Appellant. The Respondent's

position was that thereafter he bought certain rights of the land in suit by deed of

transfer bearing No 3432 dated 10.01.1983 and he became a eo-owner of 2/3

3

portion of the land of which the subject matter of the action form part of and in fact

his possession was in respect of said portion of a larger land.

At the trial the Respondent has produced his title deeds marked V 4, V

5, V 6 and V 7. The Appellant has not challenged the said title deeds of the

Respondent and the same has been admitted as evidence of the case.

On the other hand if the Respondent was in unlawful occupation of

the land in suit after the expiration of the said lease agreement on 02.09.1978 an

action should have been instituted to eject the Respondent from the land in suit.

But the Appellant has not done so. He has instituted the present action against the

Respondent on 01 st of December 1983 more than 05 years after the expiration of

the said lease agreement. By that time the Respondent had acquired an undivided

title of the land in suit. The delay in filing the present action clearly shows that the

Respondent was not in possession of the land in suit after the expiration of the said

lease agreement and the Appellant has instituted the said action after the

acquisition of rights of the land in suit by the Respondent by deed of transfer

bearing No 3432 dated 10.01.1983. Hence the Appellant now cannot have and

maintained an action against the Respondent upon a dead lease agreement to

recover the possession of the land in suit.

It must be noted that the learned District Judge in his judgment has

come to a conclusion that the appellant's action has prescribed in law. He has come

to the said conclusion on the basis that the Appellant has failed to institute the

action within 03 years after the expiration of the lease agreement. It seems that the

learned District Judge was of the view that the provisions contained in Section 10

of the Prescription Ordinance were applicable to said position. This conclusion of

' 4

the trial judge is not tenable in law. The Appellant has not sued the respondent

upon the lease agreement. At the time of the institution of the action there had been

no valid lease agreement between the Appellant and the Respondent since it had

been expired on the due date. The Appellant has instituted the said action against

the Respondent on the basis that the Respondent was in unlawful possession of the

land in suit. Therefore provisions contained in Section 10 have no relevance to

such a situation. Hence the learned District Judge's conclusion that the Appellant's

action was prescribed in law is bad in law.

When I consider the evidence of the case I am of the view that the

Appellant has failed to prove his case on a balance of probability. Hence I see no

reason to interfere with the dismissal of the Appellant's action by the judgement of

the learned District Judge dated 28.01.1997. Therefore I dismiss the appeal of the

Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal