==== BLOCKS ==== 

- -,

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. NO.632/98 DC.COLOMBO CASE NO. 15042/L

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON

DECIDED ON

Hassim Jumaldeen Abdul Caffoor Tuan Mamoor

No.19, Peterson Lane, Wellawatta,

Colombo 6.

Plaintiff -Appellant

VS

1. Mohamed Cassim alias Thassim Ahamed Mansoor

(Deceased) 1 (A)Mrs.Sithy Razian Mansoor

2. Ahamed Mansoor Ahamed Hyderalli

3. Ahamed Mansoor Ahamed Farhan

4. Ahamed Azad Mansoor,

All carrying on business in Partnership under the name of Mansooriya and Company of No.124, Second Cross Street, Colombo 11

Defendant -Respondents

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J

Wijedasa Rajapakse P.C. with L.Livera,Yase de Silva

and Rohitha Rajapakse for the Plaintiff-Appellant

N.Mahendra with P. Peramunugama and D. Pathirana for the Defendant-Respondents.

03.05.2013

2nd July 2013 by both Parties

06.08.2013

\

III

II

rI!

I

I

j t

I I

CHITRASIRI, J.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the judgment dated 29.06.1998 of

the learned District Judge of Colombo. In the petition of appeal, the plaintiff-

appellant (hereinafter referred to as the plaintiff) has also sought to evict the

defendant-respondents (hereinafter referred to as the defendants) from the

premises referred to in the schedule to the plaint. Appellant has claimed

damages as well from the defendants for occupying the said premises without

ren t being paid.

Pursuant to a protracted trial, learned District Judge dismissed the

plaint dated 29.07.1999 stating that the plaintiff has failed to prove title to the

land to which the plaintiff has claimed that he is entitled to be the landlord of

the defendants. Admittedly, the property in suit is the premises bearing

No.124, 2nd Cross Street, Colombo 11 where the business under the name and

style of MANSOORIA AND COMPANY had been carried on by the defendants.

In the impugned judgment, learned District Judge has concluded that

the land in dispute had been vested with the State, consequent upon the

communal disturbances occurred in the year 1983. Accordingly, she has

stated that the plaintiff cannot claim title to such a land vested in a

Government Institution namely REPIA. However, when this matter was taken

up for argument, it was brought to the notice of Court that the said

Organization, REPIA has now been wound up and the lands vested in the said

2

f

\

I.I

\ II, I

I I

\f I

! I I I I i f i l

~ ; !

l j I I

Organization had been divested and the respective owners have become

entitled to those lands, by the time this action was filed. Moreover, it was

brought to the notice of Court that such vesting with the State had been only a

temporary measure to give relief to those who were affected by the communal

disturbances.

Hence, it is seen that both parties have conceded that it is incorrect to

rely on the vesting of the premises with REPIA to dismiss the action. The

argument in this Court directed towards establishing the ownership of the

plaintiff to the premises in suit and if so, to ascertain whether the defendants

have attorn to such ownership, in order to accept the plaintiff as their landlord.

The case of the plaintiff is that he became the owner of the property in

dispute pursuant to the execution of the deeds bearing Nos.1929 and 2128

marked PI and P2 in evidence respectively. Admittedly, the original owner of

the property was Ana Mana Moona Mohammadu Ibrahim. Upon his death in

the year 1964, testamentary action bearing No.22465/T was filed in the

District Court of Colombo to administer his estate. In that action, Ana Mana

Moona Segu Mohideen, he being one of his sons amongst five children, was

appointed as the Administrator of the estate of the deceased Mohammadu

Ibrahim. Those facts have not been disputed by either party.

3

lIf

~ l I i IIf {

\

\

f ,~

~ II , I!t t I! t I j

The plaintiff in his evidence has stated that five children of Ana Mana

Moona Mohammadu Ibrahim sold the property to the plaintiff by the deeds

marked PI and P2. Accordingly, the plaintiff contended that he became the

owner of the premises in suit consequent upon the execution of those two

deeds. However, the learned Counsel for the respondents submitted that the

contents of the deeds marked PI and P2 cannot be accepted as evidence since

those deeds were marked in evidence subject to those being proved in terms of

the provisions contained in the Evidence Ordinance. Admittedly, neither the

notary nor any witnesses to the deeds have given evidence to prove the

authenticity of the deeds PI and P2.

However, learned President's Counsel for the appellant submitted that

those two deeds were marked without an objection been raised at the time the

plaintiff closed his case. Accordingly, he contended that it is not necessary for

the plaintiff to call the notary or witnesses to the deeds to prove the

authenticity of those two deeds. He therefore submitted that the contents of

those two deeds should be considered as evidence of the case. He relied upon

the cases of Balapitiye Gunananda Thera vs. Talalle Methananda Thera

(1997) 2 SLR at 101 and Sri Lanka Ports Authority and another vs.

Jugolinija-Boal East (1981) 1 SLR at 18 in support of this contention.

4

\,II

[

~ I

J ! I I II1 i

~

, l I

II I

~ i f

In the latter decision, it was held that:

«If no objection is taken, when at the close of a case documents are read in

evidence, they are evidence for all purposes of the law. This is the cursus curiae

of the original civil court".

Learned Counsel for the respondents did not challenge the law referred

to in the above two decisions. However, he submitted that at the time of the

closure of the case of the plaintiff, an application was made on behalf of the

defendants to accept those documents subject to proof. I have carefully

perused the proceedings recorded at the time the plaintiffs case was closed. In

those proceedings, it had been recorded that the plaintiff closed his case

reading in evidence the documents marked PI to P21. Nothing is found therein

to support the fact that the deeds PI and P2 were marked subject to proof. In

that, it is further recorded that only the documents P14, 18A, 19A, 19B and

20C were marked subject to proof. As referred to above, the proceedings

recorded at the closure of the plaintiffs case would assist to identify the

documents of the plaintiff that were marked subject to proof. Though I have

looked at the proceedings referred to above carefully, I am unable to find

anything to establish a specific request been made to have the two deeds PI

and P2 accepted in evidence with the condition of being proved as required in

terms of the Evidence Ordinance. At the same time it is seen that the

documents marked subject to proof had specifically been recorded at the time

the plaintiff closed his case.

5

\

f( II t i ! I I I

\ !,

I !

f I i I { I

f 1 \

1t

In the circumstances, relying upon the aforesaid two decisions namely,

Balapitiye Gunananda Thero vs. Talalle Methananda Thero (supra) and Sri

Lanka Ports Authority and another vs. Jugolinija-Boal East (supra), it is my

view that the plaintiff has established his title to the premises in suit by

producing the deeds marked PI and P2 even though the notary or the

witnesses to the deeds have not given evidence in order to substantiate the

execution of those two deeds.

More importantly, it is to be noted that the 2nd defendant himself in his

evidence has admitted that he was made to understand of the fact that the

plaintiff became the owner of the premises in suit. His evidence to this effect

reads thus:

" ~ q~E) q).!D) ®).!D) @.!D)C) ~~ <i(5.)E)@ ~@ <i(5.)5E)). <g)o!:rl' q.!D~ozE) ®®

~.!D(5.)tDa» <i®® .!D~<i5 oz®6l@O)oz ~® q~@ do).!DC ®@cC) (5.)tDa> Ci)E). oz®6l@O)oz

qcSd)O)ozE)o!:rl' Ci)E) ~.!D(5.)tD<itD oz®6l@O)oz<i<35 ~65~E)oc) ®C) @Scci ~5E)). ~®~O)

~® q~@ do).!DC o~Ci)o!:rl'C.)<ico!:rl' 6)S® (5.)zC)~E)ci d)81<i®d .!DzG>z. qad)c sgCi)(E) ®<i<35

~65~ ®G>tDE)Ozo!:rl'<i<35 GO<i~d SC) sg~oz c z5E)). ~®ci gE)tD 88 o®~ oz®6l@O)oz

qcSd)O)oz Ci)E) ~.!D<i(5.).!D ~Bc). . .................................................................... .

(vide pages 183 - 184 in the appeal brief)

6

r I,

~

J, t 1

\

t r f I

~ i

, I

I I I,

The aforesaid material amply demonstrates that the plaintiff became the

owner of the property in dispute pursuant to the two deeds marked PI and P2

been executed. Learned District Judge has not addressed her mind to the

matters referred to above. In the circumstances, I decide that the learned

District Judge misdirected herself when she dismissed the plaint on the basis

that the plaintiff has failed to establish his title to the premises in suit.

Next issue is to ascertain whether the plaintiff becoming the owner of the

premises has properly been communicated to the defendants for them to attorn

to the plaintiff. The letters marked P5 to P8 (at pages 311 - 317 in the appeal

brief) had been sent to the four defendants by the Attorney-at-Law of the

plaintiff requesting the defendants to pay rent to the plaintiff in respect of this

premises. The letter dated 3.11.1981 marked Pll (vide page in the appeal

brief) shows that those four letters had been received by the four defendants.

This letter Pll had been written by the Attorney-at-Law on behalf of the four

defendants. Those letters have been marked without any objection being

raised by the defendants. Therefore, it is clear that the plaintiff has written to

the defendants requesting them to attorn to him after the plaintiff became the

owner of the premises.

Moreover, the plaintiff through his Attorney-at-Law has sent the letter

dated 27.04.1984 marked P12 (vide page 328 of the appeal brief) to all the

defendants requesting them to treat the plaintiff as their landlord. A reply (vide

7

\ ,

f

[ • I

~ f

page 329 of the appeal brief) to the said letter had been sent by the Attorney-

at-law M.M.A.Raheem of the defendants to the Attorney-at-Law of the plaintiff

and it was marked as P13. By that reply marked P13, plaintiff was informed

that the change of ownership referred to in the letter P12 had not been

informed to the defendants by their previous landlords who were the children

of the original owner Ana Mana Moona Mohammadu Ibrahim Saibu.

Accordingly, the letter dated 24.09.1984 marked P14 (vide page 330 in

the appeal brief) had been sent to the defendants by the Administrator of the

Estate of the original landlord of the defendants informing them that the heirs

of the said deceased Ana Mana Moona Mohammadu Ibrahim had sold this

property to the plaintiff. In that letter, a request had also been made from the

defendants to pay rent to the plaintiff. This evidence would definitely be a

strong item of evidence to support the plaintiff becoming the owner of the

premises in suit having purchased the same from the landlord of the

defendants. However, the defendants have denied receiving such a letter even

though the said letter P14 was marked in evidence without objection been

raised. Such a stand has been taken by the defendants for the reason that they

have objected to the marking of its registered article P14A. Accordingly, the

defendants denied having received the letter P14 informing them of the new

ownership claimed by the plaintiff sent by the former owners whom they I

8 II

continue to accept as their landlords.

I

However, the letter dated 05th October 1984 (PI5) (vide page 332 in the

appeal brief) sent by the Attorney-at-law of the defendants indicates that the

defendants have received the letter marked P14. In that letter P15, a reference

is made to the letter P14 written by the former owners whom the defendants

have accepted as their landlord. In that letter dated 05.10.1984 (PI5),

Attorney-at-Law of the defendants at the very outset has acknowledged the

receipt of the letter dated 24.09.1984 marked P14. Such an acknowledgment of

the letter P14 would estop the defendants denying the receipt of the letter

marked P14 in which the request to attorn to the plaintiff by the former owners

had been made.

Such circumstances would establish that the persons whom the

defendants had accepted as their landlord has parted with their ownership to

the premises in suit and also the plaintiff becoming the owner of the premises

in suit consequent upon the execution of the deeds marked PI and P2. Also,

those materials have made it clear that the plaintiff has successfully

established that there had been requests made to the defendants, both by the

former and the present owners of the premises in suit, in order to attorn to the

plaintiff accepting him as their landlord.

At this stage, it must also be noted that the defendants themselves had

filed the action bearing No.3797 jZL in the District Court of Colombo making

the plaintiff as the defendant in that case, seeking for a declaration declaring

9

i ,

\ I

I i

I II,

t f ! t

~ I ! I f

them as the tenant to the premises in suit. The plaint filed in that case marked

P4 is found at page 286 of the appeal brief. Such an action of the defendants

also supports that they, at one stage had acted accepting the plaintiff as their

landlord to the premises in suit.

The next issue then is to ascertain whether the plaintiff is entitled to

have the defendants evicted from the premises in dispute on the basis that the

defendants have failed to attorn to the plaintiffs title and to accept him as their

landlord. In this regard, I wish to refer to the case of Seelawathie vs.

Ediriweera (1989) 2 SLR at 170. In that it was held thus:

" There is thus a long and authoritative series of decisions to the effect that

continuance in occupation by the tenant, (with notice of the transferee's

election to recognize the tenant) constitutes and exercise of the tenant's

option to acknowledge the purchaser as landlord establishing, the privity

of contract between the parties. No other act or conduct is necessary."

Also, in the case of Gunasekera vs. Jinadasa (1996) 2 SLR at 115, it

was held as follows:

('While it is legitimate initially infer attornment from continued occupation,

thus establishing privity of contract between the parties, another principle

of law of contract comes into play in such circumstances to which the

presumption of attornment must sometimes yield. When the occupier

persists in conduct which is fundamentally inconsistent with the contract

10

I

f

I I ! I I

f

of tenancy, and amounts to a repudiation of that presumed contract the

transferee has the option either to treat the tenancy as subsisting and to

sue for arrears of rent and for ejectment or to accept the occupiers

repudiation of the tenancy to proceed against him as a trespasser."

As described before in this judgment, the circumstances of the case at

hand indicate that the conduct of the defendants as to the rights of the plaintiff

to the premises in suit had been inconsistent at every material point.

Therefore, as held in the authorities above, such inconsistent conduct of the

defendants would lead to consider the contract of tenancy repudiated by them.

In the event the defendants by conduct repudiate the contract of tenancy then

the transferee or the new owner to the property has the option either to treat

the tenancy as subsisting and then he/she has the option either to sue for

arrears of rent and ejectment or to accept the occupiers repudiation of the

tenancy and to proceed accordingly, considering him as a trespasser.

In this instance, it is clear that the defendants have repudiated the

contract of tenancy by not taking steps to attorn to the new owner (plaintiff) to

the premises subjected to, in this case. Therefore, he has the right to treat the

tenants as trespassers and to obtain an order to evict the tenants from the

premises in suit. In the circumstances, it is my opinion that the plaintiff in

this case is entitled to have the defendants evicted from the premises referred

to in the schedule to the plaint filed in this case.

11

:

At this stage it must also be noted that no evidence is found as to the

j i t , claim for damages referred to in the plaint. Therefore, the plaintiff is not t

entitled to have the reliefs other than the eviction of the defendants and the

costs of the action though there are other reliefs prayed for in his plaint.

Accordingly, the plaintiff is entitled to the reliefs (A) and (C) referred to in the

plaint dated 29.07.1990. Learned District Judge is directed to enter decree

accordingly.

For the aforesaid reasons, this appeal is allowed. Having looked at the

circumstances of the case, I make no order as to the costs of this appeal.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

II!

12