==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Hiniduma Uyanage Nandawathie

of Mabotuwana Road,

Wanduramba.

Plaintiff

C A Case No. 786/97 (F)

o C Galle Cse No.l0092/P 1. Samarasinghe Vidanagama

Ariyasena of Mabotuwana Road,

Wanduramba.

2. Piyadasa Sooriarachchi of

"Samanpaya",

No.48, Wewelwala Road,

Kitulampitiya, Galle.

3. Mallaperuma Tantrige

Ananda of Polkanatta,

1

Wanduramba.

4. N.T.S. Wijesekara of Imbulanagoda

Kanatta, Wanduramba.

Defendants

Now between

Hiniduma Liyanage Nandawathie

of Mabotuwana Road,

Wanduramba.

Plaintiff Appellant

1. Samarasinghe Vidanagama

Ariyasena of Mabotuwana Road,

Wanduramba.

2. Piyadasa Sooriarachchi of

"Samanpaya",

No.48, Wewelwala Road,

2

Kitulampitiya, Galle.

3. Mallaperuma Tantrige

Ananda of Polkanatta,

Wanduramba.

4. N.T.S. Wijesekara of Imbulanagoda

Kanatta, Wanduramba.

Defendants Respondents

BEFORE P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J

COUNSEL Rohan Sahabandu PC with

Diloka Perera for the Plaintiff

Appellant.

W.P.l.D. Weerawardena for the

Defendant Respondent.

3

ARGUED ON 03.07.2014

DECIDED ON 12.06.2015

PoWoDoCo Jayathilake, J

This is a partition action filed seeking to terminate the co-ownership of the

Plaintiff and 1st and 2nd Defendants. The learned District Judge in her judgment

dated 12.08.1997 has stated that the Plaintiff has proved the Plaintiff's

pedigree by submitting marked documents P1 to P15. But at the conclusion the

trial judge has dismissed the Plaintiffs case and declared that the 1st

Defendant had acquired the prescriptive title to the entire land. This is an

appeal filed by the Plaintiff Appellant against the said judgment moving for

setting aside the judgment of the District Court and to decide the case in

favour of the Plaintiff.

4

The subject matter of the case is the land called Pitiduwa Kumbura situated at

Waduramba in extent of ten Kurunies paddy sowing. The contest of the trial

was between the Plaintiff and the 1st Defendant. The main issue was whether

the undivided rights of the parties to the land in question should be divided as

per the pedigree shown in the plaint or whether the 1st Defendant's

predecessor had acquired prescriptive title to the land. The Plaintiff's position

was that the original owner of the corpus was David Dias Abeygunawardana.

His title devolved to his wife and seven children. The said widow alienated her

undivided half share to the said seven children and thereby seven children

became entitled to 1/7 share each. Out of them two children died issueless

and then remaining five children became entitled by inheritance to 1/5 share

each from the corpus.

The Plaintiff has shown the devolution of title in his pedigree as per the deeds

attested subsequent to the said inheritance. The Plaintiff has become entitled

to undivided 5050/7200 shares the 1st Defendant 1825/7200 shares and also

the 2

nd Defendant 225/7200 shares.

The 1st Defendant in his statement of claim dated 06.09.1990 has accepted the

pedigree of the Plaintiff and the undivided shares shown to him in the plaint.

However he has moved that the tenant cultivator namely Samarasinghe

Vidhana Gamage Akmon who was occupying the entire land be made a party.

5

Accordingly said Akmon has been added as the 4th Defendant. The 4th

Defendant filed a statement of claim taking up the position that one Hector

Emmanuel Dias Abeygunawardana was the owner of the entire land and that

the 4th Defendant was his tenant cultivator from 08.01.1963. The position he

has taken was that Hector Emmanuel Dias transferred the land to one Hector

Bernard Dias in 1969 and said Hector Bernard transferred the land to the 1st

Defendant in 1984. The 1st Defendant transferred the land to one Peiris in 1985

and got it re-transferred in his name in 1986. The 1st Defendant has filed an

amended statement of claim along with the 4th Defendant. In his amended

statement he took up the position that he had possessed the land exclusively

through his tenant cultivator as the land had been occupied by the tenant

cultivator the 4th Defendant.

Accordingly the main issue of the case had been whether Hector Emmanuel

had become sole owner of the subject matter by prescription. The 2nd

Defendant has given evidence for the Plaintiff's case and marked notary deeds

disclosed in the Plaintiff's pedigree. He has admitted that Hector had given the

entire subject matter on a lease which was marked as 1 V 1 to Ovinis and

Uraneris and he has stated that he himself had got a lease from Hector after

the expiration of said lease. While denying the 4th Defendant as the tenant

6

cultivator he took up the position that the 4th defendant was only the farmer

who cultivated under him.

Admittedly the 4th Defendant is the farmer who cultivated the subject matter

from 1963. According to him he took over cultivation of the paddy field from

Hector Dias Abeygunawardhana. He gave paddy as the rent to said Hector Dias.

The 4th Defendant has testified that Piyadasa Sooriyaarachchi who gave

evidence for the Plaintiffs case had never possessed this land. As he knew that

nobody else had possessed this land except Hector Dias he recommended his

son the 1st Defendant to buy it.

The learned trial judge has come to the conclusion that according to the

evidence revealed Hector Dias had possessed this land not as a co-owner but

the sole owner. Therefore he has acquired the prescriptive rights to the land

and those rights had been devolved on the 1st Defendant.

The learned President's Counsel for the Plaintiff Appellant made the following

submissions.

The Plaintiffs position was that the land was owned by David Dias and his

rights were devolved to the parties as shown in the pedigree. The claim of the

1st Defendant was that the land was possessed solely by Hector Emmanuel

who transferred to his son Hector Bernard from whom the 1st Defendant

7

obtained the title. But on the pedigree pleaded by the Plaintiff, Hector

Emmanuel was one of the children of David Dias. The President's Counsel

submits that Hector Bernard has transferred to the 1st Defendant what he got

from Hector Bernard in deed No. 345 which is marked as P3. Accordingly the

Plaintiff's position is what has been transferred was the share that Hector

Emmanuel owned according to the pedigree. He further submits as Hector

Emmanuel had been a co-owner, the mere statement of the 4th Defendant of

saying that he gave pravani to Hector Emmanuel does not prove prescriptive

position. The learned District Judge has not examined the position of capacity

in which Hector Emmanuel possessed the land through the 4th Defendant,

submits the learned counsel. Was it on the basis of being a co-owner or,

collecting rent on behalf of others, is a question that was not even addressed

by the learned District Judge he argues.

"Adverse possession means a possession unaccompanied by payment of rent

or produce or performance of service or duty or by any other act by the

possessor from which an acknowledgement of a right existing in another

person would fairly and naturally be inferred. This principle similarly applies to

one co-owner's prescription against all other co-owners in the context of co-

ownership" argues the learned counsel for the respondent by citing

8

Thilakarathna Vs Bastian Casel . Learned counsel emphasized three principles

of law applied to interpret the word "Adverse" by Bertrem J in the said case.

1. Every co-owner has a right to possess and enjoy the whole property and

every part of it, the possession of one co-owner in that capacity is in law

the possession of all.

2. Where the circumstances are such that a man's possession may be

referable either to an unlawful act or to a lawful title, he is presumed to

possess by virtue of the lawful title.

3. A person who has entered into a possession of land in one capacity, it

presumed to continue to possess it in the same capacity.

The possession in this present case did not confine to a mere word as there

were so many documentary proofs to prove 1st Defendant's prescriptive title,

submits the learned counsel. The documents mentioned by the learned

counsel for the respondent are 1 V 1 to 1 V 3 which are lease agreements.

These lease agreements are evidence to the fact that Hector Emmanuel has

given the subject matter on lease to farmers who cultivated from 1945. The

document V 4 is the agro identity card of 4th Defendant which shows that the

9

4th Defendant had been the tenant cultivator, and H.A.D. Abeygunawardhana

had been the owner of the subject matter.

As stated earlier Hector Emmanuel was a co-owner by inheritance. Therefore

he had to acquire the prescriptive title in order to become the sole owner. The

position how a co-owner can acquire the prescriptive title has been discussed

in a series of judgments. It is mentioned earlier that three principles laid down

in Corea Vs Appuhamr applicable in interpreting the word adverse. A necessity

of a special sort of adverse position has been discussed in Aodiris Vs Mendis3,

William Singho Appuhamy Vs Ran Naide4• It has been held in JUliyana Hamine

Vs Don Thomas5 that when a witness giving evidence of prospective states "I

possessed" or "We possessed" the court shouldn't insist on those words being

explained and exemplified. De Silva J in Abdul Majeed Vs Umma Zaneera6 has

taken up the view that long continued possession along the property owned in

common is not sufficient to draw an assumption of ouster. It is relevant to

consider the matters such as

a) Income divided from the property.

b) The value of the property.

c) The relationship of the co-owners and where they reside in relation to

the situation of the property.

10

d) Document executed on the basis of exclusive ownership.

In the instant case long continued possession of Hector Emmanuel is evident

by the lease agreements entered by him with different farmers at several

times. It appears that in those deeds Hector Emmanuel has acted as the

exclusive owner. There is no explanation in the Plaintiffs case in regard to the

execution of those deeds by Hector Emmanuel on the basis of exclusive

ownership. The only questionable point is the filing of the 1st Defendant's

original statement of claim accepting his undivided share shown by the

Plaintiff. But how it had happened has not been disclosed as the Plaintiff has

not taken any interest to call the 1st Defendant to get that matter clarified. In

the circumstance as the documentary evidence has become cogent evidence in

favour of the 1st Defendant to claim the devolution of prescriptive title of

Hector Emmanuel. When there is documentary evidence that one co-owner

has possessed the whole land acting as the sole owner and claim prescriptive

title, other co-owners claiming co-ownership shall have an acceptable

explanation sufficient to rebut the irresistible inference of adverse

possession.

I am of the view that the trial court, has no alternative other than accepting

the fact that long continued possession of Hector Emmanuel was in the nature

11

of adverse possession which had resulted to terminate the co-ownership by

way of prescription. I therefore see no reason to interfere with the judgment

of the District Judge and as such dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

1. (21 NLR 12)

2. (l5NLR65)

3. (13 NLR 309)

4. (1 CWR 92)

5. (59 NLR 546)

6. (61 NLR 361)

12