==== BLOCKS ==== 

CA PHC 69/2009 PHC AVISSAWELLA 70/07 MC KADUWELA 72858 ..

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA (PHC) APN 69/2009

H.C Avissawella Rev. 70/07

MC Kaduwela 72858

1. WELJKAKALA WITHANAGE SHANTHA

SRI JAYALAL, 151/A/1, Hewagama, Kaduwela.

2. PATII WIDANALAGE IROSHINI MALLIKA, 151/ A/1, Hewagama, Kaduwela.

15r PARTY-PETITIONER-APPELLANT

vs

1. ANGODA KUSUMAWATHIE PIGERA, 149, Hewagama, Kaduwela.

2. PATHIRAGE RANJITH PERERA, 257P, Rajasingha Mawatha, Hewagama, Kaduwela.

2"d PARTY RESPONDENT-RESPONDENT

1. KALUTHANTHRIGE DON CHANDRASENA 2. KALUTHANTHRIGE DONA WIMALAWATHIE 3. KALUTHANTHRIGE DON GUNAPALA 143, Hewagama, Kaduwela

INTERVENIENT-PARTY-RESPONDENT-RESPONDENT

OFFICER-IN-CHARGE, Police Satation, Nawagamuwa

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDENT-RESPONDENT

CA PHC 69/2009 PHC AVISSAWELLA 70/07 MC KADUWELA 72858

Before : A.W.A. SALAM, SUNIL RAJAPAKSHE, J, J.

Counsel : Kamal Dissanayaka with ·Mrs Lalitha Liyanage for the 1st

party-petitioner-appellant and Pubudu de Silva with S H U

Amarawansa for the 2nd party-respondent-respondent.

Argued on 29. 5. 2013

Decided on 23.07.2013

.W.A. Salam, J.

fjihe 1st party-petitioner-appellants (appellants) have

~preferred this appeal against refusal to entertain their

reVIsiOn application filed in the High Court of A vissawella,

challenging the propriety of the determination of the learned

Judge of the Primary Court, made under the Provisions of

Section 68 of the Primary Court Procedure Act No 44 of 1979.

The learned High Court Judge has dismissed the revision

application based on two grounds. First and foremost he was of

the view that the application for revision should fail due to lack

of an express averment in the petition to the effect that

exceptional grounds existed; secondly, the affidavit filed in

support of the petition was invalid inasmuch as it did not

contain the word in the jurat "swear"; namely the fact of taking

an oath or being sworn.

As regards the first ground, the learned High Court Judge stated

in the judgement that he is bound by the decision in Urban

Development Authority Vs Ceylon Entertainment Ltd and others

2004 1 SLR 95. In his attempt to apply the decision in that case,

the learned High Court judge misquoted a passage, as being a

ruling in the judgment in Urban Development Authority Vs

CA PHC 69/2009 PHC AVISSAWELLA 70/07 MC KADUWELA 72858

Ceylon Entertainment Ltd. The misquoted passage 1n the

impugned judgment reads as follows ...

"It is only when the petitioner has adopted complied

with mandatory requirements of the rules, by

expressly pleading the existence of exceptional

circumstances .... Therefore I am of the view that the

absence of such a specific plea disentitled the

petitioner to the relief claimed and the respondent's

preliminary objection in regard to this matter should

be succeeded".

In actual truth the judgment in Urban Development Authority

(supra) contains no such passage as quoted by the learned High

Court Judge signifying that it binds him. In the case of Urban

Development Authority, the answer of the defendant was rejected

for the failure to reply the interrogatories. The court of appeal

rejected the application of the defendant to revise the order of the

district court on the ground that the petitioner (defendant) before

the Court of Appeal had failed to set out any exceptional

circumstances which warranted the exercise of the revisionary

jurisdiction of that court and the petitioner had failed to annex

to his application for revision either the originals or the certified

copies of the documents relied upon by him as required by the

rules of court. Aggrieved by the decision of the Court of Appeal

the defendant preferred an appeal with the special leave had and

obtained, against the said judgement and after hearing the

appeal the Supreme Court held inter alia that Rule the 3 (1) (a)

read with Rule 3 (1) (b) requires strict adherence in the matter of

an application for revision. As the petitioner (defendant) had not

adhered to Rule 3 (1) (a) read with Rule 3 (1) (b) the Supreme

CA PHC 69/2009 PHC AVISSAWELLA 70/07 MC KADUWELA 72858

Court affirmed the order of the Court of Appeal rejecting the

revision application and observed that by reason of the finding

relating to the adherence to Rule 3 as aforesaid, it is not

necessary to look into the other question whether it is necessary

to plead specifically the circumstances which warranted the

exercise of the extraordinary revisionary jurisdiction of the Court

of Appeal. As such the Supreme Court in Urban Development

Authority (supra) refrained from deciding or making any

observations on the question as to whether the Court of Appeal

had erred 1n holding that the presence of exceptional

circumstances in the pleadings 1s by itself insufficient for the

exercise of revisionary jurisdiction.

In the circumstances, it would appear that the learned High

Court Judge has misquoted the decision in Urban Development

Authority as being the ratio decidendi, for the proposition of law

that want of an averment in the petition to the effect that

"exceptional circumstances existed", is a ground for the

dismissal of the revision application at the threshold

without the petitioners being heard on its merits.

stage,

It is appropriate at this stage to refer to Rustomjee vs

Hapangama 1978-79 SLR volume 2 page 225 where the

importance of the revisionary jurisdiction has been emphasised.

As has been decided in the case of Rustomjee vs Hapangama the

powers by way of r~vision conferred on the appellate court are

very wide and can be exercised whether an appeal has been

taken against an order of the original court or not. However such

powers would be exercised only in exceptional circumstances

that an appeal lay and as to what such exceptional

circumstances are is dependent on the facts of each case.

CA PHC 69/2009 PHC AVISSAWELLA 70/07 MC KADUWELA 72858

Dealing with the exceptional circumstances the court in that

case further held that it is not possible to define with precision

what matters would amount to exceptional circumstances and

what would not and it is not desirable, in a matter which rests so

much on the discretion of the Court to categorise these matters

exhaustively or to lay down rigid, and never to be departed from,

rules for their determination.

Be that as it may, the trend of authorities plainly point to the

position that where the revisionary powers of the Court are

invoked, in respect of a decision against which an alternative

remedy is available, it will be exercised only if exceptional

circumstances necessitating the indulgence of court are

available.

It does not mean, that the petitioner who invokes the

revisionary powers of the court should in his petition state in so

many words that "exceptional grounds exist" to invoked the

revisionary jurisdiction in addition to pleading the grounds on

which the revision is sought. To rule on the question as to

whether those grounds constitute exceptional circumstances is a

matter for court to decide at the threshold stage before

entertaining the application for revision or turning it down.

Quite noticeably none of the decisions referred to by the learned

High Court Judge deal with the requirement to state in so many

words in a single averment that "exceptional circumstances exit"

or words to that effect. As has been quite correctly contended by

the learned counsel for the appellant in a revision application of

this nature the necessity is the existence of exceptional

circumstances but not the inclusion of the phrase the words to

the effect "exceptional circumstances" in the petition. It is

CA PHC 69/2009 PHC AVISSAWELLA 70/07 MC KADUWELA 72858

actually for the court find out whether the circumstances

enumerated in the petition constitute exceptional circumstances.

In the instant matter, the petitioner is in paragraph 15 of the

petition has clearly stated 11 grounds to invoked the revisionary

jurisdiction. The main grounds urged by the petitioner when

examined in the light of the impugned determination of the

Primary Court Judge it is quite clear that the petitioner has

disclosed exceptional grounds to invoke the rev1swnary

jurisdiction of court.

As regards the defect 1n the affidavit the learned High Court

Judge has followed the judgment in Ravi Karunanayake vs

Wimal Weerawansa 2006 2 SLR 16 delivered by the Court of

Appeal. The learned counsel for the appellant contended that the

learned High Court Judge has failed to consider the judgment in

the case of De Silva and others vs LB finance Ltd 1993 1 SLR

371in which the Supreme Court held that where the affidavit

stated that deponents I affirm I and in the body of the affidavit

the deponents described themselves as I affirmants and in the

jurat there was a statement that the affidavit was read over and

explained to the "within - named affirmants" there was a

sufficient compliance with Section 438 CPC and the affidavit was

valid despite the fact that the jurat did not contain the fact of

affirmation. It was further held in that case that there was no

reference to Form 75 in section 438 of the Civil Procedure Code

and only the marginal note in Form 7 5 makes reference to

section 438 and therefore compliance with Form 75 is not

essential.

In the instant case the affidavit filed in support of the petition

has been objected to on the ground that the word "swear" has

CA PHC 69/2009 PHC AVISSAWELLA 70/07 MC KADUWELA 72858

not been included in the jurat. However, as contended by the

learned counsel for the appellant, the main part of the affidavit

reads "qB 06:!®:J<t) 25)0'25):! 825) emsi25325)c.:>25"f D@0'c.:>251 ~WZS) ~etro251 25)~~

~25)23c.:> @@el W:J qt)o25)E)5'J 253Dl6~D5'J" ~D6:J g25):J();l 25)6 80~",

Taking into consideration the matters referred to above, it is my

considered view that the learned High Court Judge ought to have

entertained the revision application and issue{ notice on the

respondents. If any serious legal objections are raised by the

respondent, against the revision application, he is at liberty to

hear both sides on those matters and decide the matter

according to law. Accordingly, the impugned judgement of the

learned High Court Judge is set aside and he is directed to

entertain the revision application of the appellant.

There shall be no costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

I agree.

Sunil Rajapakshe,J

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Kwk/-