==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Abdul Majeed Ummu Thahira, of No. 44,44/6, and 44/7, Modera Street, Colombo 15.

Plaintiff-Appellant CA. No. 686/99(F) D.C Colombo Case No. 4657/ ZL

Before

Counsel

Vs.

Commulage Don Mable Jeeny Rose of No. 46, Modera Street, Colombo 15.

RANJITH SILVA, J. & A.W.A. SALAM, J.

Defendant-Respondent

N.R.M. Daluwatte P.C for the Plaintiff-Appellant.

~J(:lo-Upali de Almatd with R.J.U. de Almeida for the Defendant-Respondent.

Argued on

Written submissions tendered on

Decided on

Ranjith Silva, I.

03.12.2010

03.08.2011

24.11.2011

The Plaintiff-Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant) instituted

action to vindicate title to the premises bearing numbers 44, 46/6, and

46/7 situated at Modara Street, Colombo 15. He sought inter alia a

1

declaration that he is entitled to quiet possession of the aforementioned

premises without any interruption or disturbance from the Defendant-

Respondent (who shall hereinafter be referred to as the Respondent).

The respondent did not contest the ownership of the appellant with

regard to premises number 44 and thus the area of dispute was narrowed

down to the ownership of premises bearing number 46/6 and 46/7. After

trial the appellant was granted relief in respect of premises bearing

number 44 and his claim in respect of premises bearing Numbers 46/6

and 46/7 was dismissed whilst holding in favour of the respondent.

Apparently the learned Judge had done so on the strength of the deed

bearing number 894 dated 23rd of March 1983.

Being aggrieved by the judgment of the learned District Judge the

appellant has invoked the appellate jurisdiction of this court to canvass

the correctness of the findings, conclusions and the judgment of the

learned District Judge, both in relation to the dismissal of the action in

relation to premises bearing Nos. 46/6 and 46/7 as well as the declaration

made in favour of the respondent in respect of 46/6 and 46/7.

The said deed executed by the Executantl by placing her left thumb

impression is being impeached in these proceedings. At this stage of

arguments both parties agreed that if the court were to decide that the

deed bearing number 894 containing only the left thumb impression of the

~f2tt.. executant without any mark is properly executed tftfrt the appeal should

stand dismissed and vice versa.

2

The la~decidillg this issue it becomes very important to deal with

Section 2 of the Prevention of Fraud Ordinance No.7 of 1840 which is

reproduced below without the inapplicable words.

No sale, purchase, transfer, assignment, or mortgage of land or other

immovable property, ..... shall be of force of avail in law unless the same

shall be in writing and signed by the party making the same, or by some

person lawfully authorized by him or her in the presence of a licensed

notary public and two or more witnesses present at the same time, and

unless the execution of such writing, deed or instrument be duly attested

by such notary and witnesses.

The absence of an interpretation of the word "sign" or its grammatical

variation is rather conspicuous. In the circumstances, one must have

recourse to the Interpretation Ordinance of 1901 to ascertain the meaning

of the word "sign". Section 27(2) of the Interpretation Ordinance reads

"sign" with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, shall,

with reference to a person who is unable to write his name, include

"Mark" with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions.

Therefore, it is seen that the word "sign" includes a mark. However, the

term "mark" is not defined in the Interpretation Ordinance. The law

Lexicon 1997 - second edition - (The Encyclopaedic Law Dictionary) by P.

Ramanathan Aiyar at page 1195 the word "Mark" is defined as follows ....

"In the case of illiterate persons "Mark" takes the place of a

signature. As a verb to mark is to make a visible sign upon

something; to affix a significant mark to; ..... "

3

With the enactment of the Notaries Ordinance JI Section 31(15) dispense

with the necessity of having recourse to the Interpretation Ordinance to

ascertain the meaning of the word "sign".

Section 31(15) reads, "If any deed or instrument executed or

acknowledged before him be signed by any of the parties or witnesses

thereto with a mark, or with a signature in a language other than that in

which the notary is authorized to practice, he shall write over such mark

or signature in his own handwriting and at the time of execution the

words "This is the mark (or signature, as the case may be) of A.B." (here

insert the name of the person signing with the mark or signature); and in

the case of a mark he shall besides require such person to affix to the deed

or instrument the impression of his left thumb and shall write over such

impression at the time and in the manner aforesaid the words "This is the

left thumb impression of A.B." (here insert the name of the person whose

thumb impression it is).

(;Jhe.~ Ordinarily weftt a deed is signed by a mark the notary shall require that

such person should affix to the deed the impression of his left thumb and

a..l.sl!J I alI-so shalt right Oller such. a qtleSLiOfl the words "This is the left-thumb

impression of A. B .". Although the said requisites laid down in section

31(15) have not been strictly adhered to in the instant case inasmuch as

aM.t-Wthi. t<,k e fp the deed in question contains only the left thumb im::~q. of the

execute<! of the deed and lacks any mark'll made by her I advert to

section 33 of the Notary1s Ordinance which mitigates such irregularity.

Section 33 reads thus.

4

No instrument shall be deemed to be invalid by reason only of the failure

of any notary to observe any provision of any rule set out in section 31 in

respect of any matter of form: provided that nothing herein before

contained shall be deemed to give validity to an instrument which may be

invalid by reason of non-compliance with the provisions of any other

written law.

An example iR fespect of the proper application of the above proviso

could be gathered from the Prevention of Frauds Ordinance. Any breach

of any condition laid down in subsection to section 31 of the Notary's

Ordinance does not make the instrument invalid solely on account of the

non-compliance of anyone of those formalities prescribed in that section,

if the document is otherwise valid.

This sort of omission at best relates not to the substance but the form and

thus falls within the phrase "failure of any notary to observe any provision

of any rule set out in section 31 in respect of any matter of form".

This position is augmented by judicial interpretation in Wijeratna and

another Vs Somawathie 2002 (1) SLR page 93 at page 97 and 98. In the

above case it was held - I quote /I

The learned President's Counsel for the appellants queried the absence of

the signature or mark of the executant in deed 986 referred to above, as

provided for by section 31 (15) of the Notaries Ordinance. Apart from the

fact that even the petitioners deed, bearing No. 3511 referred to above also

executed by Elsina, not having the latter's signature or mark and not even

been proved, the placing of the thumb impression without a mark by an

executant would not invalidate a deed. Non-compliance of the Rules in

5

•

section 31 of the Notaries Ordinance does not invalidate a deed as

provided for by section 33 of the same Ordinance. That section protects

the deed. The absence of a mark by the executant at most would be non-

observance by the Notary of the rules specified in section 31 aforesaid. As

stated by the learned Counsel for the appellants, although a possibility

exists for obtaining a thumb impression of a person who is dead,

unconscious, asleep or when intoxicated in the instant case the person

who accompanied the executant was no other than the executant's own

son who later testified to a conscious act of her mother when describing

the incident of attestation referred to above. It is my view that the essential

element of due execution is to comply with the provisions of section (2) of

the Prevention of Frauds Ordinance and as stated by E. R. s. R.

Coomaraswamy in the Conveyancer and Property Lawyer', vol. I, part 1

(1945) "Non-compliance with the provisions of the Notaries Ordinance

will not invalidate a deed as long as the provisions of section 2 of the

Prevention of Frauds Ordinance are complied with".

The facts of the instant case are on all fours with those of the judgment

above referred to. In addition to what I have already stated it is pertinent

to emphasize the difference of placing a mark as opposed to placing the

thumb impression. A mark attributable to -;executant could be made by

anybody and does not have distinguishing features like in the case of a

sjck nature or th8 left thumb impression which could safely be considered

as fool proof. If one were to advance the argument that the thumb

impression of deceased person or a person who is in an unconscious I'tate

vJ(?~ could also be placed on a d~ those are matters \hat he did not

address our mind as 8@li.eIally do occur exceptionally and the same

charge could be made in respect of a mark as well.

6

I I , I I I t I I ! !

f 1

It is my considered view that ~e the formalities with regard to

form! should not be applied with the same rigour and harshness with

regard to the affixing of a thumb impressiollilil contrast~ observing the

fOrmalitieSWhenaffixing~marl).-~ Fe t>bJd~ ~~.

For the foregoing reasons, I hold that there is no substance or merit in this

appeal ~d I refuse to interfere with the findings of the learned district

judge'~ dismiss this appeal with costs fixed at Rs 10000/=.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

I agree

A.W.A. Salam, J

Judge of the Court of Appeal

7