==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for a Writ of

Prohibition under and in terms of Article 140

of the Constitution.

*******

(.A. (Writ) Application No.674/2006

1

1. Wilmot Abeynayaka

Vs

Senior Superintendent of Police

No. 260/1

Kerawalapitiya Road,

Wattala.

PETITIONERS

1. Inspector General Of Police

Police Headquarters

Colombo 01.

2. Asoka Wijetilaka

Deputy Inspector General of

Police, Criminal Investigations

Department, Colombo 01.

3. Sisira Mendis

Senior Superintendent of Police

Director, Criminal Investigations

Department, Colombo 01.

I • i i i i

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

Oeepali Wijesundera J.

4. E.A.AL. Amarasekara

Senior Superintendent of Police

Director-Special Investigation Unit

Colombo 01.

RESPONDENTS

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

: Faiz Musthapa P.C. with

Mrs. Faiza Markar for the

Petitioners.

Arjuna Obeysekara D.S.G. for

the Respondents.

: 10th June, 2014.

: osth August, 2014

The petitioner has joined the Police Department in 1973 and had

been promoted as a Senior Superintendent of Police in June 2000 and

served in Chilaw, Tangalle and in Mount Lavinia. While serving in

Tangalle the Inspector General of Police who acted on an anonymous

petition against the petitioner has ordered the Deputy Inspector General

Southern Range to initiate an inquiry and submit a report. The Deputy

2

Inspector General Southern Range had recommended that the said

petition be referred to the Special Investigations Unit for an Independent

Inquiry. The allegations levelled against the petitioner were, while

serving in Chilaw he had recruited as a cook a person known to him to

the Police Department and posted him to a Police Station he was in

charge of. The said person namely RPC 5290 Velu was transferred to

Hambantota Police Division as a police cook soon after the petitioner

was transferred to Tangalle. The said RPC although he should have

worked as a cook in the police mess was not assigned any duties at

Hambantota but worked as a cook at the private residence of the

petitioners in Colombo. The salary and other emoluments of RPC Velu

were paid by the Hambantota Police Station.

The SIU conducted an inquiry and at the conclusion Director SIU

the 4th respondent had submitted his final report dated 04/11/2003 (1R9)

to the IGP. The Senior DIG (Administration) recommended to the IGP

that no action should be taken against the petitioner. This is marked as

P4. The IGP having agreed with the DIG's recommendations decided to

conclude the investigation against the petitioner.

The petitioner while serving in Mount Lavinia was transferred as

Director Womens' Bureau and had filed a writ application to quash the

3

said transfer order dated 06/02/2006 in the Court of Appeal.

Subsequently the IGP had acted on another anonymous petition against

the petitioner received by him on the same issue and order a fresh

inquiry to be held. The petitioner has filed this application seeking inter

alia a writ of Prohibition restraining the respondents conducting a fresh

inquiry.

The learned counsel for the petitioner stated that the petitioner

has served over 32 years in the Police Department and had an

unblemished record of service and that during his term of service there

had been occasion where he had to deal with certain errant Police

Officers for corrupt practices on their part and as a result they were ill-

disposed towards him. The petitioner stated the anonymous petition

dated 02/08/2002 marked P3 sent by some police officers was inquired

in to by the SIU and the petitioner's private residence in Colombo was

kept-under surveillance in order to ascertain whether Velu was working

there but no such evidence was found. The petitioner's counsel

submitted that the 4th respondent did not find evidence to substantiate

the charge that RPC Velu's signature was forged by PS Piyadasa. The

statements of PC Karunaratne and IP Premadasa given for the inquiry

revealed the presence of RPC Velu at Hambantota. The petitioner's

counsel submitted that RPC Velu's immediate supervisors had not

complained about him not reporting for work. On the report submitted by

4

1 I

I I i I t I

1 i I I I

the SIU the Senior DIG (Admin) submitted his report to the IGP stating

that he does not recommend disciplinary action against the petitioner or

any other officer (P4) and no action was taken against the petitioner or

any other officer on the said allegations. The learned counsel submitted

that the position of the petitioner that he has taken disciplinary action

against certain errant officers and thereby incurred their wrath has to be

accepted. The petitioner's counsel stated that after beings transferred

as Director Womens' Bureau he appealed to the 1st respondent to vary

the transfer but since there was no response he filed a writ application

CA Writ 478/2006 in the Court of Appeal to quash the said order. The

counsel further submitted that the 1st respondent being agitated by the

said writ application directed the 2nd and 3rd respondents to reopen and

conduct a fresh inquiry in respect of the inquiry bearing No.

ED/08/2052/3 which had been concluded two years ago where non of

the officers were found guilty.

The learned counsel stated that the 1st respondent has

maliciously ordered a fresh investigation into the same allegation based

on another anonymous petition (1 R11) after the petitioner obtained an

interim order (PS) suspending the operation of the transfer order made

by the 1st respondent.

5

The petitioner's counsel stating the principles of Administrative

Law that an Authority has power to decide only once cited wade on

Administrative Law 10th Edition;

"In the interpretation of statutory powers and duties there is

a rule that, unless the contrary intention appears, the power may

be exercised and the duty shall be performed from time to time as

occasion requires. But this gives a highly misleading view of the

law where the power is a power to decide questions affecting legal

rights. In those cases the courts are strongly inclined to hold that

the decision, once validly made, is an irrevocable legal act and cannot

be recalled or revised. The same arguments which require /inally lor the

decisions 0/ courts o/Iaw apply to the decisions 0/ statutory tribunals,

ministers and other authorities".

The petitioner stated the purported fresh inquiry into the same

allegation is malicious and without jurisdiction. The counsel further

submitted that conducting an investigation into the same allegation in

respect of which the petitioner has already been exonerated was done

with malicious intention of taking revenge from the petitioner for filing the

writ application and is clearly tainted with malice, and holding a fresh

investigation on the same material would deny the petitioner a fair trial

6

for which he is entitled to under article 13 (3) of the constitution. He cited

the judgments in W.K.C. Perera Vs Prof. Daya Edirisinghe and

others (1995) 1 SLR 148 and Kunanathan Vs University of Jaffna

and others (2006) 1 ACR 16.

The petitioner's counsel further submitted that there was no

evidence to establish the said RPC Velu worked in the petitioner's

private residence and that the petitioner is a public officer who has since

retired from service as a DIG and as such the 1st respondent does not

have jurisdiction to reopen or hold a fresh inquiry. The counsel stated

that no inquiry was pending against the petitioner when he retired and

Sec. 12 (1) of the Minutes of Pensions is inapplicable to the

determination of the present application.

The learned DSG for the respondents submitted that at the

conclusion of the inquiry by the SIU the 4th respondent recommended to

the IGP that a charge sheet be issued to the petitioner for violating the

relevant provisions of the Departmental rules and regulation and also to

recover the money paid to RPC Velu from the petition (1 R9). When the

report was submitted to the IGP through the Senior DIG (Admin) having

omitted the adverse recommendations made by the SIU recommended

to the IGP that no action should be taken against the petitioner and the

7

IGP decided to conclude the investigation. The respondents submitted

another petition marked IR11 had been received by the IGP and was

referred to the CID to conduct an inquiry. The CID in an interim report

had stated the matter be referred to the Attorney General for legal

advice.

The learned DSG for the respondents submitted that an inquiry

was not held against the petitioner nor was the petitioner acquitted of

the charges levelled against him but the matter ended with the decision

of the IGP not to proceed beyond the investigation. He stated that in the

absence of any acquittal or a final determination being made by the

relevant disciplinary authority on the allegations made against the

petitioner the action of the 1 st respondent to initiate a fresh investigation

in not illegal nor is it ultra vires of the powers of the IGP or contrary to

the provisions of the Establishment Code thus a writ of Prohibition does

not lie to prevent the investigation proceeding.

The 4th respondent's report on conclusion of the investigations

1 R9 clearly states that the said RPC Velu was not found in the

petitioner's Colombo residence which was kept under surveillance.

8

I

I1t rl J

ff I

II

r!

,! Itl

1R9 page 3;

@OJ.t]!. 00 ~XZD ®c!i>cro ~ ~ ~ ~5

ge:(5)~ ~ ~® ~ q,c:5» e.@OJ.~).

5290 <9d.~ ~ ~E):) (5)~®.

S@()) [f<Jffi ®~005 ge:(5)(9t:l) 5)00 [fe)() at;;G)@t:l) ®clq}t:l)6<Je)eD e<J@e)cl t:l)6

aBQ)@il®J ae)cle)) [f<Jffi [f0)6, ex§) aBQ)@il®J@~ e<J5)() @@@ 5)e)@d @CZl.@a).[f.

oo~@G5 ru~ e:lG) e6<Joo a~oe;e) 8~ §)e)() t:l)6<Jf@ [f5)X)6®JW e:i [f<J0).

a@G)cl @acle:l@® ~G)eD e.@a).@t:l)). 5290 @Q). ~clq}@®(Sj W5) [fW a@ .ffie)@d

@de)w t:l)OO ~OO t:l)6<Jf@ 6)OOQ) [f5)X)6®JW e:i @5»)@)<J0) .

The said RPC was not found to be working at the petitioner's

private residence on the respondent's own findings it is abundantly clear

that the 1st respondent has acted maliciously on an anonymous petition.

There was no evidence to say RPC Velu's salary was taken by

somebody else the inquiring officer if he had any doubts should have

sent his signature to the EQD. The Senior DIG (Admin) on receipt of the

9

iIl t 1,

if

~ •t i

~

~ tIt

f

I

!I

I i III

t

said inquiry report had recommended to the 1 st respondent that no

action should be taken against the petitioner or any other officer to

which the IGP had agreed. A final conclusion was reached on this issue.

P4 states;

Director SIU has specially stated that there is no evidence to

maintain a charge against SSP Willie Abeynayake for getting RPC 5290

Velu to work in his private residence. Furthermore the surveillance was

also conducted at the residence of sSP Willie Abeynayake at Wattala, but

received negative results.

As regards the charges suggested to be leveled against the other

officers devolve on the main issue as to whether this RPC was deployed

by Mr. Willie Abeynayake in his residence. Since this charge against this

SSP cannot be maintained due to lack of material, the question arises

whether the charges against the other officers could be sustained.

The report of the Director SIU reveals that,

(a) There are no evidence to substantiate the charges that the

signature of this RPC had been forged by PS 1960 Piyasena.

10

iii

I I f1

/I

t

(b) If orders issued has been construed as illegal it was up to the

officers concerned to have not complied with them and to have

brought to the attention of their superiors promptly or at least

to put on records.

The verbal evidence of the witnesses were contradicting their

own entries and records. This important issue had been

overlooked.

(c) Statement of PC 14412 Karunaratne noted in page 22 reveals

the presence of RPC Velu at Hambantota.

(d) Statement of IP Premadasa (page 23) too reveals the presence

of this RPC Velu at Hambantota.

In my view it would be futile exercise to frame charge against the

officers concerned without sufficient substance and materials to sustain

these charges.

Two years after the conclusion of this inquiry the 1 st respondent

acting on another anonymous petitioner on the same issue tries to start

a fresh inquiry which the petitioner alleges was prompted by his writ

application. This indicates that the 1st respondent has acted maliciously

and is trying to harass an officer who has retired after long years of

11

!

fi

rII

,

service to his country. As stated by his counsel the petitioner has an

unblemished service record.

To reopen a file which has been closed and petitioner exonerated

after two years is unreasonable and is contrary to the principles of

natural justice.

For the afore stated reasons this court decides to grant the relief

prayed for in prayer (a) of the petition. Petitioner's application for a writ

of Prohibition is allowed.

C7 ~ rJ yyV\/VV' ~ \L JUDGE OF TH COURT OF APPEAL.

12

I

f

i iI

t

[i ; i l If ,