==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Hettiaratchchi Gamage Saman Kumara

CA. 49/2013

H.C. Matara 84/2010

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

RESPONDENT

N. A. Chandana Sri Nissanka for the Accused-Appellant

Shanaka Wijesinghe D.S.G., for the Respondent

12.05.2014

25.06.2014

1

3

described in the examination-in-chief of the victim. Complaint was made by

the prosecutrix no sooner the incident, to her sister and thereafter to the

police.

AT the hearing of this appeal the learned counselor the Appellant

submitted that the prosecutrix had made two statements to the police and the

first statement does not reveal a proper identification of the Accused person.

As such the prosecution has not proved the case beyond reasonable doubt. He

also submitted that identity is only based on moon light and it is not a proper

identification and unable to convict the Accused-/l,ppellant. He also referred to

the medical report where the Doctor had "'ot recorded the name of the

Accused.

The learned Deputy Solicitor General submitted that the prosecution

case had been proved beyond reasonable doubt a nd submitted that the

Accused had been known to the victim for some years as a person who comes

to the garden of the prosecutrix to pluck flowers. He also submitted that

identity h3d been properly established and apart from knowing the Accused

for some time. She was able to identify the Acolsecl ty the torch ligrt and

moon light which was sufficient to prOlle identity HE also submitted that

givirg two statements to the police cannot rarm the prosecution case since

4

the police in order to satisfy the question of identity had kept on asking

questions from the prosecutrix to be sure of identity. There is no doubt that

the prosecutrix had in her evidence in court without difficulty gave evidence

on the identity of the Accused person. Learned Deputy Solicitor General also

referred to the age of the prosecutrix who was 64 years at the time of

incident.

Having perused the judgment of the trial Judge, it appears that the

trial Judge has given his mind to all vital points of the case. Tria! Judge having

analysed the version of the prosecutrix arr-ives at a conclusion that the

prosecutrix had no reason to implicate the Accused or substantiate her side of

the story by lying to court. The trial Judge has cdso considered the dock

statement of the Accused, and does not favour the Accused's position based

on the dock statement, to be truthful for the reason that evidence establish

that the Accused is not an unknown person since he also lives in the vicinity

and a person who comes very often to pluck flower~, from the victims garden.

As such the position and situation n of the victim living alone was known to the

Accused Identitv of tl,e Accused hac! als') been cons;~~ered by the trai! Judge. I

find that no proper grounds are urged on behalf of the Accused party to

interfere with the conviction of the Accu~ed, Prosecutrix' versior is consistent

5

and no sooner the incident occurred she had complained to her own sister

(who was) living within a short distance from the house of the prosecutrix.

Thereafter at the earliest opportunity informed the police about the act of

rape and statements recorded. The evidence in court is consistent, although

evidence was given 3 years after the incident. The contradiction marked is not

1t I material to harm the prosecution case.

i-In all the above circumstances we are not inclined to interfere and I! III

I

intervene with the views expressed by the learned I-'igh Court Judge. As such

we affirm the conviction and sentence, and dismiss this appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

Qj,Y~Qu,

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Malinie Gunaratne J. I I agree. i f

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL