==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A. Appeal No 24/2009 H.C.Embilipitiya No.60/2006

Udawalawe Wimalawansha alias Samaraweerage Wasantha Pushpakumara Ihala Kiripattiya Yaya, Thibolkatiya, Kolabage Ara.

Appellant Vs. Hon. Attorney General Attorney General’s Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

C.A.Appeal No 24(2009 H.C.Embilipitiya No.60(2006

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

Sisira J. de Abrew, J. &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J.

Dr.Ranjith Fernando for the Accused-Appellant.

SarathJayamanne DSG for A/G.

18.11.2013

Sisira T. de Abrew, T

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted for committing the

offence of grave sexual abuse to a girl named Amali Maheshika and was

sentenced to a term of 10 years rigorous imprisonment, to pay fine of Rs.sOOO/-

carrying a default sentence of 3 months simple imprisonment. Being aggrieved

by the said conviction and the sentence the accused-appellant has appealed to

this Court.

According to the facts of this case the accused-appellant who was at the

time of the incident, a Buddhist priest, committed a grave sexual abuse on Amali

Maheshika. Amali Maheshika says that she was having sexual relationship with

the accused-appellant over a period of one year. According to the evidence, the

1

sexual relationship has taken place in the house of the girl. Although the charge

levelled against the accused-appellant is that of grave sexual abuse, the girl has

given birth to a child as a result of the sexual relationship that she had with the

accused-appellant. It is clear from the evidence that she had had sexual

relationship with the accused-appellant with her consent.

Learned Counsel appearing for the accused-appellant submits that he does

not challenge the conviction. He however submits that the sentence imposed on

the accused-appellant is excessive. He moves Court to consider reducing the

sentence. We note that the victim girl was having sexual relationship with the

accused-appellant, who was a Buddhist priest with her consent. According to

the evidence, she was, one day, seen seated on a double chair with the

accused-appellant who was wearing Buddhist robe. When we consider all these

matters, facts of the case and the punishment, we feel that we should give a

token reduction to the accused-appellant. We therefore set aside the term of 10

years rigorous imprisonment and impose a term of 8 years rigorous

imprisonment. The fine imposed by learned trial Judge remains unaltered. We

direct the Prison Authorities to implement the sentence from the date of

conviction (02.04.2009)

2

r . '

Learned High Court Judge of Embilipitiya is directed to issue a fresh

committal indicating the sentence imposed by this Court. Subject to above

variation of the sentence, the appeal of the appellant is dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C.Iayathilake, I.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

KLP/-

3