==== BLOCKS ==== 

THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA. CA. (Writ) Application No: 805/2009

Basnahira Palatha Magee Pravahana Adhikaariye Widhayake Niladhaarennge Sangamaya, Western Province, Provincial Road Passenger’s Transport Authority, No: 59, Robert Gunawardena Mawatha, Battaramulla. And 08 others

Petitioners Vs. National Transport Commission, No: 241, Park Road, Colombo 05. Hon. Attorney General, Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12. And 60 others.

Respondent

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an Application for Writs in

the nature of Certiorari and Prohibition

under Article 140 of the Constitution of the

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

*******

C.A. (Writ) Application No. 805/09

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

1

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

: J.C. Weliamuna with Pasindu

Silva for the Petitioner.

Anusha Samaranayake SSC for

1 st and 62nd Respondents.

Kapila Liyanagamage for 5th to

9th Respondents.

: 1ih February, 2014

: 30th May, 2014

Oeepali Wijesundera J.

This application has been filed by the petitioner for a writ of

certiorari to quash the Cabinet decision marked as P13 and subsequent

instructions based on P13 marked as PS, P7, PS, P9, P10 and P11

issued by the 1st respondent. Petitioner has also sought a writ of

Prohibition to prohibit the 1st to ih respondents from taking over the

powers vested in the 5th respondent's authority.

Bastian Mawatha and Gunasinghepura bus stands were utilized

for inter and intra provincial transport. Both these bus stands were

managed by the Western Province Provincial Road Passenger

Transport Authority (5th respondent) with the concurrence of the Central

Government. In June 2009 the 1st to 4th respondents have taken steps

to restrain the 5th respondent from managing the bus stands after the

said Cabinet decision. The 5th respondent and the petitioner have filed

the instant application to challenge the vesting of the Bastian Mawatha

bus stand in the 1st respondent commission.

The petitioner's submission was that the Cabinet did not have the

authority to vest the said bus stand in the 1st respondent and that the 1st

2

respondent being a regulator cannot be vested with the authority to

operate the said bus stand. The petitioner's contention was that though

he premises on which the said bus stand stands is owned by the Sri

Lanka Railways which is a property belonging to the Central

Government it has always been operated by the 5th respondent and that

this will not justify the vesting of the Bastian Mawatha bus stand in the

National Transport Commission. The petitioner further submitted that all

bus stands in the country are operated by the Provincial Transport

Authorities or Local Authorities, and that in pursuance of the 13th

Amendment to the Constitution all bus stands hitherto have been run by

the Provincial Authorities. The argument of the petitioner was that after

the 13th Amendment the Cabinet has no authority to take a decision of

this nature authorizing the 1 st respondent to operate a bus stand.

The petitioner referring to the National Transport Commission Act

No. 370/1991 and Sri Lanka Transport Board Act No. 270/2005 stated

that nowhere in the acts it has provided authority to the National

Transport Commission to operate bus services or to manage bus stands

therefore unless the law is amended the National Transport Commission

has no legal authority to operate a bus stand.

3

The petitioner referring to the 13th Amendment and the

Constitution stated that the purpose of the 13th Amendment was a

harmonious devolution and the central and the provinces are required to

respect each other and all bus stands in the country are operated by the

Provincial Authority, while the Central Government represented by the

National Transport Commission enjoyed the regulatory powers over

inter provincial passenger transport. The petitioner further stated that

the Bastian Mawatha bus stand was one of the main revenue

generating sources to the Western Provincial Council.

The learned Senior State Counsel submitted that under the 13th

Amendment to the Constitution the function of the National Transport

Commission comes within the purview of the Central Government and

the function of the intra provincial passenger transport services comes

under the purview of the Provincial Councils. Consequently the

Provincial Councils have been allocated a certain number of bus stands

by the Cabinet decision marked as P3 to facilitate their function of

providing intra provincial transport within the provinces.

Learned Senior State Counsel stated that after the 13th

Amendment and P3 certain bus stands continued to be retained by the

Central Government, including the Bastian Mawatha bus stand. This

4

land belonged to the Railway Department and was developed with funds

from the Central Government and the 1 st respondent.

The Senior State Counsel for the 1 st respondent stated that until

P13 the Bastian Mawatha Bus Stand was utilized for both inter and intra

provincial passenger service transport and managed by the 5th

respondent the Central Government decided to utilize the said bus

stand only for inter provincial transport and nominated the 1 st

respondent to manage the said bus terminal. It was further stated that

the mere physical location of the bus stand within the Western Province

does not automatically bring it within the purview of the Western

Provincial Council.

The only issue to be decided by this court is whether P13 Cabinet

decision is ultra vires on the grounds of devolution of powers by the 13th

Amendment to the Constitution. The validity of the subsequent

documents P6, P7, P9, P10 and P11 will depend on the validity of P13

since they have been issued base on P13.

Under the provisions of the 13th Amendment to the Constitution

inter provincial transport that is transport within two or more provinces

5

which is described as National Transport comes within the purview of

the Central Government. And function of transport within the province

that is intra provincial transport comes under the purview of the

Provincial Councils. The Provincial Councils have been allocated certain

bus stands after the 13th Amendment by a Cabinet decision while some

bus stands continued to be retained by the Central Government. This

Cabinet decision is marked and produced as P3a and P3b. the Cabinet

memorandum states thus;

TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OF BUS STANDS BELONGING

TO THE SRI LANKA CENTRAL TRANSPORT BOARD (SLCTB)

AND REGIONAL TRANSPORT BOARDS (RTBB)

TO THE PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

At a meeting held in my Ministry on 21.1295 with the Ministers

of Transport of the Provincial Councils, it was pointed out by the letter

that these bus stands need urgent development and maintenance work

in order to provide the long suffering commuter with improved

facilities. As the Provincial Councils and other local bodies were

reluctant to invest their funds in this work as long as the ownership of

the bus stands remain with the SLCTB, it was decided at this meeting

that these bus stands be vested in the respective Provincial Councils, to

enable them to carry out the necessary improvements without delay.

6

The above mentioned bus stands do not include the Central Bus

Stand at Pettah, which will continue to be managed directly by the

SLCTB in view o[its special importance in Island wide bus operations.

Annexure I which gives a list of bus stands vested which is also

produced with P3a does not mention the Bastian Mawatha and

Gunasinghepura bus stands. The Central Government has taken a

decision by P13 for the Bastian Mawatha Bus Stand to be utilized only

for inter provincial transport and has nominated the 1 st respondent to

manage the said bus terminal, the mere physical location of the bus

stand within the Western Province does not bring it within the purview of

the Western Provincial Council.

In P13 the Cabinet has authorized the management of the inter

provincial passenger terminal at Bastian Mawatha by the National

Transport Commission which is sufficiently empowered to carry out the

functions in question by virtue of sec.9 of the National Transport

Commission Act No. 37 of 1991 as amended by Sri Lanka Transport

Board Act No. 27/2005.

7

The petitioner did not establish a valid and acceptable legal basis

to quash P13 and the subsequent documents marked as P6, P7, P9,

P10 and P11 therefor the application of the petitioner is dismissed with

costs fixed at Rs. 25,0001=.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

8