==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA101/2011

HC(Anuradhapura)345 I 2004

Before

Counsel

Argued & Decided on

Sisira J. De Abrew, J

D.A. Amarasiri Dissanayake,

Appellant

Vs.

The Attorney General,

Respondent

Sisira J. De Abrew, J P. W. D. C. Jayathilaka, J

K.A. Upul Anuradha Wickramarathne

for the Accused-Appellant.

Hiranjan Peiries SSC for the AG

28.05.2013

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases. The Accused

-Appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of a man named

Nishshanka Arachchige Senadheera and was sentenced to death.

Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence the accused-

appellant has appealed to this court. Facts of this case may be briefly

summarized follows: The case for the prosecution entirely depended

on circumstantial evidence. The accused appellant went to a place

1

called Edagala which is in the village of the accused appellant on

16.10.2000 on the motor cycle belongs to one Gamini Dayasiri. When

the accused appellant came back on the motor cycle, the wife of the

deceased asked where the key of the motor cycle was to which the

accused appellant said that the key was in the pocket of the deceased

person. It is worth while to note that the accused appellant is

married to the daughter of the deceased person. Gamini Dayasiri

says that there are two keys to this motor cycle. Later the

investigating police officer found a bunch of key near the dead body.

Police officer was able to start the motor cycle with one of the keys in

the bunch. This evidence suggested that the accused appellant has

met the deceased, after he left the house on the motor cycle.

Around 1.30 a.m. on 17.10.2000 the accused appellant surrendered

to the police station with a sword. Police officer noticed blood stains

on the shirt and the trouser worn by the accused appellant. But

unfortunately the police officer has not forwarded the clothes of the

Accused Appellant to the Government Analyst. Around 3.30 a.m. on

17.10.2000 (the following day of the incident), the police officer on the

direction given by the accused appellant recovered the dead body of

the deceased person. It is worth while to note the time of recovery of

the dead body. It is 3.30 in the morning. The accused appellant in his

two line dock statement denied the charge. He did not offer any

2

,

explanation to the recovery of the dead body. Further, he did not

make any explanation to the handing over of the sword to the police

officer around 1.30 in the morning. When we consider all these items

of evidence, we feel that only irresistible and one and only inference

that could be drawn is that the accused appellant committed the

murder of the deceased person. In our opinion the learned trial judge

has come to the correct conclusion. We see no reason to interfere with

the judgement of the learned trial judge. For the above reasons, we

affirm the conviction and the death sentence and dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

. Judge of the Court of Appeal

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J

I agreed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Naj-

3