==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIASLIT REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. Appeal No. 847/98(F) D.C. Gampaha No.35825/L

1. Subasinghage lionel Gunaratne No.220/1, Gonahena, Kadawatha. 2. Subasinghege Nimal Justin No.32,Bulugahagoda, Ganemulla. 3. Handuwala Dewage Joslin Fernando (Deceased) 3a. Subasinghege Nimal Justin No.32, Bulugahagoda, Ganemulla.

Defendant-Appellant-Petitioners 1. Ranpati Dewage Seelawathie (deceased)

2. Handuwala Dewage Yasawathie Iranganie

3. Handuwala Dewage Susila Rohini

4. Handuwala Dewage Swarnakanthi

5. Handuwala Dewage Rajapaksa Siriwardane

6. Handuwala Dewage Dissanayake Gunawardane

All of 220/1, Gonahena, Kadawatha

Plaintiff-Respondent-Respondents

\ ! I I I

C.A. Appeal No. 847/98(F) D.C. Gampaha No.35825/L

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

K. T. Chitrasiri,J.

K. T. Chitrasiri, J.

Lasitha Kanuswanaarachchi for the 1 st, 2nd and

3a Defendant-Appellants.

1 st 2nd and 3a Defendant-Appellants are Present in Court.

4th Defendant-Appellant is absent and unrepre sen ted.

Neville Abeyratne with Kaushalya Abeyratne Dias for all the Plaintiff-Respondents.

2nd, 3rd and 6th Plaintiff-Respondents are present in Court.

08.11.2013.

Registrar of this Court has sent notices to all the

Defendant-Appellants informing them that this appeal be taken

up for hearing in this Court. Hence, this appeal is taken up for

argument in the absence of the 4th Defendant-Appellant as he has

not responded to those notices. Learned Counsel for the other

Defendant-Appellants submits that the four appellants including the

4th appellant who is absent and unrepresented today, have filed

1

Ifi

only one answer in the District Court having taken up same position

by all four of them. Even the Petition of Appeal is filed jointly by

all the four Defendant-Appellants.

At this stage, learned Counsel for the 1 st, 2nd and 3a

Defendant-Appellants moves to withdraw this appeal. Learned

Counsel for the Plaintiff-Respondent has no objection to this

application for withdrawal. Having made the application to

withdraw the appeal, learned Counsel for the Defendant-Appellants

also submits that the 4th Defendant-Appellant who is not before

Court will not be affected even if his appeal is dismissed since he

is to have the same rights in the land subjected to this case even if

this appeal is dismissed. Therefore it is clear that the 4th Defendant-

Appellant is not affected by dismissing the appeal filed by him.

Having considered the above circumstances referred to

above, this appeal is dismissed allowing the application to

withdraw the appeal of the 1 sL 3rd Defendant-Appellants. Appeal IS

dismissed without costs.

Appeal dismissed

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

/mds

2