==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of a Leave to Appeal Application under and in terms of Section 16 of the Judicature Act No. 02 of 1978 (as Amended) read with Section 340 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act No. 15 of 1979.

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Complainant Court of Appeal Leave to Appeal No: LTA/0005/26 Vs. High Court of Colombo Case No. HC 4820/24

Mohommed Irshad Marshook

Accused AND NOW BETWEEN

Abdul Hadee Sarwa, 22, Gold Center, Pettah

Aggrieved Party – Petitioner

2

Vs. 1. Mohommed Irshad Marshook,

No. 46/07, Rathnawali Road, Kalubowila

Accused - Respondent

2. Hon. Attorney General,

Attorney General Department, Colombo 12

Complainant - Respondent

Before: Amal Ranaraja, J.

Dr. Sumudu Premachandra, J.

Counsel: U.R. de Silva, PC with Thilini Attapattu and Hansani

Pathirana instructed by Mayuran Mahalingam for the

Aggrieved Party-Petitioner

Aruna Pathirana Arachchi with Rangika Hemachandra for

the Accused-Respondent

Lishan Rathnayake, SC for the State

Argued on: 01.07.2026

Judgment on: 06.08.2026

3

Judgment

Amal Ranaraja J,

1. The Honourable Attorney General has forwarded an indictment to the

High Court of Colombo in Case No. HC 4820/24 and has named the

accused respondent as the accused in that case.

2. The accused-respondent has been charged of committing offences

punishable under Section 403 of the Penal Code of Sri Lanka. Upon

receipt of the indictment, the learned High Court Judge has caused the

accused-respondent to be brought before such Court, thereafter, the

charges in the indictment have been read and explained to him. The

accused-respondent has pleaded not guilty to the charges.

3. The learned High Court Judge has, thereafter, proceeded to try the

accused-respondent. At the conclusion of the trial, the learned High

Court Judge has found the accused-respondent not guilty of the

charges in the indictment and acquitted him. The aggrieved party-

petitioner being the virtual complainant and being aggrieved by the

acquittal has preferred to this court, the instant application, seeking

leave to file a petition of appeal, disputing the judgement in Colombo

High Court Case No. HC 4820/24.

4. The learned High Court Judge has meticulously evaluated the evidence

presented by the witnesses in support of the complainant i.e. the

Honourable Attorney General. After thorough consideration the learned

High Court Judge concluded that the complainant has failed to

establish its case beyond a reasonable doubt on the basis that the

elements necessary to establish the charges had not been proved. As a

result of this assessment, the learned High Court Judge has proceeded

to acquit the accused-respondent.

4

5. The actions taken by the learned High Court Judge are firmly grounded

in legal principles and are consistent with the requirements of a fair

trial. In legal proceedings, it is essential that the judgement is not only

based on quantity of evidence but more importantly on its quality and

reliability.

6. In reaching the disputed judgement, the learned High Court Judge has

acted within the confinements of the law, respecting the rights of the

parties involved and assuring that justice is served. The disputed

judgement is not perverse.

7. Due to the preceding reasons above, I am not inclined to issue formal

notice on the accused respondents. I dismiss the instant application for

leave to appeal.

8. I make no order regarding costs.

Leave refused.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Dr. Sumudu Premachandra, J.

I agree

Judge of the Court of Appeal