==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA 1161-1162/96 (F)

DC Kegalle Case No. 23341/P

BEFORE : A.W.A. Salam, J.

Malawi Atchchilage Herath Banda,

Asmadala, Galathara.

Plaintiff-Appellant.

Vs.

1. Malawi Atchchilage Jayathilleka

Banda, Wattegedara, Asmadala,

Galathara.

And 15 others.

Defendant-

Respondents.

COUNSEL : Mokshini Jayamanna for the 3rd Defendant-

Appellant. D.S. Saman de Silva for the 9th Defendant-Respondent.

ARGUED ON : 21.02.2012

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS TENDERED ON: 17.07.2012

DECIDED ON : 30.04.2013

A W A Salam, J

The instant appeals have been preferred by the plaintiff-

appellant and 3rd defendant-appellant whom I propose

referred to in the rest of this judgement as "plaintiff' and

"3rd defendant" respectively against the findings,

judgement and interlocutory decree entered by the learned

district judge.

The plaintiff filed partition action to partition the land

called Hitinawatta which was depicted for the purpose of

the partition action as lots 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 in extent of 5

acres and 21.50 perches in plan No K 1775 dated

23.11.1983 prepared by M.B. Ranatunga, L.S ..

The parties were in agreement that the land sought to be

partitioned consists of the five lots depicted in the said land

No K 1775. Hence, no contest arose at the trial as regards

the identity of the corpus and no argument was advanced in the appeal either.

According to the plaintiff the original owner of the corpus

was one Malavi Arachchilage Mudalihamy. The defendants

who contested certain specific aspect of the devolution of

title set out by the plaintiff, offered no contest with regard

to the original ownership attributed to the said

Mudalihamy. Thus, it is common ground that Malavi

Arc:tchchilage Mudalihamy was the undisputed original owner of the corpus.

Upon a perusal of the evidence led and the document

marked and produced at the trial, it is quite evident that no

Page 2 of7

one had contested the position of the plaintiff that the said

original owner by deed No 42648 dated 10.4.1905 gifted all

his rights from and out of the corpus to his 4 children and

wife Unaspitiya Kirielle Vidanalage Ranmenika.

One of the main points of contest that came up for

determination at the trial was whether the said Unaspitiya

Kirielle Vidanalage Ranmenika had transferred her rights in

the land by deed No 2842 (P2) to one M. Appuhamy

whose rights ultimately devolved on the plaintiff and the 1st

defendant. It was also contended by the plaintiff in the

original Court that M. Dingiri Appuhamy who derived title

on the deed of gift No 42648 transferred his rights to

Ukkumenika whose rights ultimately came down to the plaintiff and the 1st defendant.

The learned district judge in her judgement inter alia held

that the vendor in deed No 2848 namely Malavi Achchilage

Ranmenika is not the wife of the original owner. He

observed that the wife of the original owner who derived A

title on deed No 42648 is one Unaspitiya Kirielle Vidanalage

Ranmenika. Further, the learned district judge held that

the land dealt in deed No 2848 is not the subject matter of

the partition action. In the circumstances, the learned

district judge held that the rights of U R W Ranmanika and

M Dingiriappuhamy do not devolve on the plaintiff and the

1st defendant.

The plaintiff amongst other matters urged that the said

finding of the learned district judge is contrary to the

Page 3 of7

evidence led at the trial. Having perused the evidence led at

the trial on this aspect of the case and examined the

approach of the learned district judge to resolve the

dispute, I find it difficult to endorse the argument that the

rights of U R W Ranmanika had not passed on deed No

2848 and that the rights of M Dingiriappuhamy had not

passed on deed No 10204. Consequently, I fmd no merits in

the appeal preferred by the plaintiff.

The 3rd defendant in his appeal has urged that the learned

district judge was wrong in not allotting 1 I 4 share to him

despite the fact that it had been established on a clear

chain of title that he had acquired the rights of M Punchi

Appuhamy (one of the children of the original owner) who had derived title on Pl.

As far as the 3rd defendant is concerned, his position was

that the rights of M Punchi Appuhamy (114th share) were

transferred on deed No 1724 7 to M Mudianse who died

leaving as the sole heir of M Sethuhamy who by deed No

26437 transferred the same toY G Appuhamy who in turn

by deed No 38102 transferred it to M.A. Sethuhamy who by

deed No 50798 transferred it to the 3rd defendant. However,

the learned district judge gave no rights in the land to the

3rd defendant on the basis that the deeds relied upon by

him are inapplicable to the corpus.

The contest raised by the 1Oth defendants on one side and

the 3rd defendant on the other side was whether the rights

of M. Appuhamy who became entitled to 1 I 4th share from

Page 4 of7

the original owner Mudalihamy, died without executing any

deed affecting the land in question or whether he executed

a transfer in favour of M Mudianse. The lOth and 11th

defendant's position was that Appuhamy died leaving as his

heirs Ukkumenika and Dingirimenika and his rights

devolved on the lOth and 11th defendants. They claimed that

Dingirimenika transferred her share in the land on deed No:

2948 dated 24th November 1973 (11 D 1) to the 11th

defendant and Ukkumenika transferred her share on deed

No 24494 dated 15th August 1949 (10 D 4) to the lOth defendant.

Nevertheless, under cross examination the lOth defendant

admitted that Appuhamy transferred his rights to Mudianse

by deed 3 D 1. The only argument the 1Oth defendant

advanced was that the 3rd defendant does not in fact have

any legal title to 1 I 4 share as he had never possessed the

corpus. Quite remarkably the 1Oth defendant neither takes

up the position that he (1Oth defendant) was ever in

po~session of the subject matter. Under cross examination

the 1Oth defendant conceded that he was not in possession

of any part of the subject matter. Thus, it would be seen

that the 1Oth defendant specifically admits the transfer

made by Appuhamy of his 1,4 share in favour of Mudianse

by deed 3-D 1. The contention of the 1Oth defendant

therefore narrows down to the ground that the 3rd

defendant's title is defective by reason of his not having any possession of the subject matter.

11

Page 5 of7

A careful scrutiny of the alleged grounds urged by the

parties who contested the position of the 3rd defendant's

title reveals that none of them have substantiated the

argument with sufficient evidence. The learned district

judge has however failed to appreciate or take cognizance of

this fact.

Besides, the learned judge has dealt with deed marked as

3-D 1, 3D 2, 3D3 and 3D4 by simply making an overall

observation to the effect that the deeds in question are not

applicable to the corpus. In making such observation, the

trial judge has failed to analyse the contents of the deeds or

set out the other grounds which influenced her decision.

For this reason alone the judgement is totally defective, as

obviously there has been a failure of justice for want of

reasons for the fmdings of the trial judge affecting the claim of the 3rd defendant.

Further the learned district judge has failed to consider the

boundaries set out in the preliminary plan or match them

with those in 3-D 1. The 3rd defendant's contention that 3-

D 1 is applicable to the corpus is supported by the fact that

all parties have sought to partition HITINAWATTA which is in extent 6 palas of paddy.

Furthermore the Commissioner M B Ranatunga in his

preliminary report annexed to the preliminary plan No 1775

has remarked that the 3rd defendant was present at the

time of survey and claimed several plantations on lots 1

and 4 without any counter claims being made by any party.

Page 6 of7

The lOth defendant has countered the report of the survey

claiming that the 3rd defendant was not even present at the

survey. The learned trial judge has not given due judicial

mind to the fact that the 3rd defendant was present at the

survey and preferred certain claims before the Commissioner.

In the circumstances, it would be seen that the learned

district judge has failed to give sufficient reasons for his

conclusion that the deeds of the 3rd defendant are not

applicable to the corpus. Hence, it would be seen that there

has been no proper investigation of title. As such I am

compelled to set aside the impugned judgment and send the case back for a re-trial.

Judgment and ID set aside and case sent back for re-trial.

Judge of the Court of Appeal A

NR/-

Page 7 of7