==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Eliyatamby Thambiah,

General Secretary,

People's Workers Union,

No. 52/3, Church Road,

Kahawatha.

Petitioner

CASE NO: CA/439/2016/WRIT

Vs.

1. The Commissioner of Labour,

Labour Secretariat,

Colombo 5.

2. The Chairman,

The Employer's Federation of Ceylon,

No. 385 J3, Old Kotte Road,

Rajagiriya.

3. The General Secretary,

Workers' Congress,

No. 72, Ananda Coomaraswamy Mawatha,

Colombo 7.

4. The General Secretary,

Lanka Jathika Estate Workers' Union,

No. 60, Bandaranayakepura,

Sri Jayawardenapura Mawatha,

Welikala,

Rajagiriya.

2

5. The General Secretary,

Joint Plantations Trade Union Centre,

No. 89, Dharmapala Mawatha,

Matale.

And 23 Others

Respondents

Before: Mahinda Samayawardhena, J.

Counsel: E. Thambiah for the Petitioner.

Nayomi Kahawita, S.C. for the 1st, 26th and 28th

Respondents.

K.S. Perera for the 2nd, 6th-8th, 10th, 11th, 13th-

15th, 17th, 19th, 19th-25th Respondents.

Sunil Abeyratne for the 4th Respondent.

S. Gurugalgoda for the 5th Respondent.

Decided on: 12.06.2018

Samayawardhena, J.

The petitioner as the General Secretary of the People’s Workers

Union filed this application seeking prerogative remedies in the

nature of writs of certiorari, mandamus and prohibition basically

to quash the Collective Agreement (P15) and the Gazette

Notification which published it (P17) on the basis that some of the

clauses of the said Agreement are against the best interests of the

members of the said Union.

The respondents have taken up a preliminary objection to the

maintainability of this application on the premise that the

petitioner has no locus standi to file this application.

3

The Collective Agreement P15 was entered into between the 2nd

respondent as the party of the first part and the 3rd-5th

respondents as the party of the second part. The 2nd-5th

respondents are Trade Unions. This Agreement taken in isolation

is a private Agreement between the two parties who are not public

officers and therefore not amenable to writ jurisdiction.

The only public officer among the respondents is the 1st

respondent—the Commissioner of Labour who is statutorily

required to cause the Collective Agreement to be published in the

Gazette in terms of section 6 of the Industrial Disputes Act, No. 43

of 1950, as amended. I will assume that the Collective Agreement

published in the Gazette under the hand of the 1st respondent

(P17) attracts writ jurisdiction.

However the petitioner in my view shall fail at the threshold level

itself.

The petitioner on the one hand in the 1st paragraph of page 13 of

his written submissions dated 23.04.2018 states that “his Union is

not a party to the said Collective Agreement.” If his Union is not a

party to the Collective Agreement the petitioner cannot have

sufficient interest to file this application as only the parties to the

Collective Agreement are bound by it—vide sections 5(2) and 8 of

the Industrial Disputes Act.

Conversely, the petitioner in paragraph 5 of the original petition

dated 22.12.2016 states that “on behalf of the members of the

petitioner’s union too the 3rd, 4th and 5th respondents have signed

the agreement” intimating that the petitioner’s Union is bound by

the Agreement.

4

The petitioner cannot approbate and reprobate, affirm and

disaffirm, blow hot and cold the same transaction simultaneously.

If the petitioner’s Union is bound by the Agreement for the reason

that the 3rd-5th respondents have signed the Agreement on behalf

of the members of the petitioner's Union, the petitioner cannot

bypass the 3rd-5th respondents and straightaway come to this

Court seeking annulment of the Agreement published in the

Gazette by way of a prerogative writ. That has to be done through

the 3rd-5th respondents who are the parties to the Agreement. The

petitioner does not say that the 3rd-5th respondents have signed the

Agreement on behalf of the petitioner’s Union without their consent

and against their wishes.

On the other hand, even the 3rd-5th respondents need not come

before this Court seeking annulment of the Agreement by way of a

prerogative writ. In terms of section 9 of the Industrial Disputes

Act, they can, if they want, repudiate the Agreement, in whole or in

part, by written notice to the Commissioner of Labour and the

other relevant parties.

Looking at from any angle, the petitioner's application, in my view,

is misconceived in law.

I uphold the preliminary objection and dismiss the application with

costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal