==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

\

j

\

f I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of a petition of appeal in

terms of section 331 (1) of the Code of

Criminal Procedure Act No 15 of 1979 in

the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

Lanka.

High Coyrt (Batticaloa)

Case No: 2568/2008 Hon. Attorney General,

C.A. Case No:l06/2012 Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

Complainant

Burhan Mohomod Saibu

Accused

1

I! t I IIll I i I i I! i l I

\

f1 I t

t I j I

\ , I I

BEFORE

COUNSEL

AND NOW BETWEEN

Burhan Mohomod Saibu

Accused Appellant

Hon. Attorney General,

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

Complainant Respondent

H.N.J. PERERA, J

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J

Dharshana Kuruppu for the

Accused Appellant.

Dilan Ratnayake sse for the

Respondent.

2

I

rI!

t

\

ARGUED ON 28.10.2014

\ 1 I

DECIDED ON 30.03.2015

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J

Burhan Mohomod Saibu, the Accused Appellant was indicted for committing

the offense of child abuse, punishable under Sec. 365 B (2) b of the Penal Code

amended by No. 22 of 1995 and No. 29 of 1995. He was convicted after trial

and sentenced to 10 years' rigorous imprisonment, and imposed a fine of Rs.

10,000/= carrying a default sentence of six months simple imprisonment. He

was ordered to pay Rs. 50,000/= to the victim child carrying a default sentence

of one year simple imprisonment. Being aggrieved with the conviction and the

sentence, the Accused Appellant has preferred this appeal to this court.

The Accused Appellant had been a person of 43 years, married and having one

daughter by April Sth of 2005. His wife had gone abroad twelve years ago. He

3

I

I I f l I

II

f I Ii I

\

f

f

I \

I I

I

was living alone in a small house about 5, 6 meters from the house where his

parents were living. He had a plantation of sugar cane.

Lafir Irfan, 8 year old student had been playing cricket with his friends near the

Accused appellant's land. When his friends were playing Irfan was just waiting

nearby as he had been out. Then the Accused appellant came there and called

Irfan to give him sugar cane and mangoes. Accused Appellant had took Irfan

into his house and closed the door. After switching on the ceiling fan, he asked

Irfan to lie in the bed. Accused Appellant made Irfan lie on the stomach in the

bed. Then the Accused Appellant removed Irfan's pair of trousers and his

trousers. He got on Irfan's body, lay down and pushed his penis in Irfan's back.

The friends of Irfan who were playing cricket had come to see Irfan, as he was

late. Then they had noticed the door and windows of the Accused Appellant's

house closed. They pushed the door, then it opened. They had seen Irfan lying

with his face downwards and the Accused Appellant standing without the

trousers. Then, they had gone with Irfan to his house and told his parents

about the incident.

The learned counsel for the Accused Appellant contended that the prosecution

story cannot be believed for the following reasons. Irfan, in his evidence, had

admitted that the Accused Appellant had leveled an allegation that Irfan and

his friends had stolen sugar cane. He had also accepted the suggestion made

4

I t I ! I II

I I[

I

\ I

f f I!

[ II

t I I,!

I

!

by the defense counsel that the Accused Appellant hit him over the said

allegation. The learned counsel also pointed out some discrepancies of the

evidence of prosecution witnesses. The father of Irfan had said that he was

told about the incident by his wife, the mother of Irfan. But Irfan's friend,

Nibras had stated in his evidence that he told Irfan's father about the incident,

not the mother. But Irfan's father had categorically stated that he came to

know about the incident through his wife and Irfan.

The learned counsel for the Accused Appellant raised an argument that the

evidence of the victim does not support the charge leveled against the Accused

Appellant. What is mentioned in the charge is that by using Accused

Appellant's organ on Irfan's thigh area, the said offence had been committed.

But according to Irfan's evidence, the Accused Appellant had placed his organ

on the back of Irfan. This implies that the Accused Appellant had used the

rectum of Irfan.

It is pertinent to consider the evidence of the Judicial Medical Officer at this

juncture. He had stated that he had examined both the back and thigh area of

Irfan, but found no injuries. The defense counsel had asked whether, when one

inserted his penis into the anus of a child, it is possible that the child gets

injuries. In the answer given to this question, the Judicial Medical Officer had

made the following explanation.

5

l II

[

There are two kinds of sexual molestation and abuse. One method is inserting

the penis between the two thighs in which there is no room or possibility of

causing injuries and/or pain. The other is inserting the penis into the anus

where there is a chance for injuries and pain, sometimes bleeding as well. In

the cross examination, Judicial Medical Officer had explained that the child was

8 years and 2 months old, so he cannot say on which area of the body it was

done because he has no knowledge about it. His opinion was that if it had

occurred through the anus there would have been a possibility of getting

injuries or wounds.

The learned Senior State Counsel responded that when the evidence of Irfan

and the medical evidence are considered together, it is obvious that the

physical act that had taken place was the 1st method where the chance of

getting injured is absent. He pointed out that accordingly there is no clash

between the charge sheet and prosecution evidence.

The Accused Appellant had made a dock statement where he had stated that

the children helped him with cleaning the land and therefore he gave sugar

cane and mangoes. After that, he had seen the boys cutting the sugar cane in

his plantation and he had warned them. He had further stated that there was

no electricity in his house at that time. But ASP Weerasinghe, in his evidence,

had stated that the Accused might have been lying in the bed prior to their

6

I

I I I

i

f !

\ ,

! II

\

t

[ I

\

arrival at his place, because the ceiling fan of the house had been working at

that time.

It is a common allegation that we have experienced in the Criminal Court of

Appeal that the judgments of the High Court Judges are only mere narrations

of the evidence and they make no effort to analyze and evaluate the facts and

the circumstances. We too have noticed that often they don't refer to the

premises by which they come to the conclusions. In the instant case, the

learned trial judge has begun the judgment by mentioning the charge

explained in the indictment. She has noted the names of the prosecution

witnesses and next the documents marked. After that, up to the last paragraph

of the judgment, the learned judge has narrated the evidence of the

prosecution case and the contents of dock statements. In the last paragraph of

the judgment, with a short summary of the prosecution case, she has recorded

her conclusion that the prosecution case has been established. "Therefore, the

State Counsel has proved the case against the Accused beyond reasonable

doubt and the court finds him guilty for the charge of child abuse," the trial

judge has mentioned in her judgment as the last sentence.

She could have analyzed the evidence of the victim boy and his friend. Both of

them had been students of grade 3 at the time of the incident. They had given

evidence after 5 years of the incident and were students of grade 8 at the time

7 t I !

\

I of giving evidence. One can observe the verity of the evidence by studying the

line of moments leading to the occurrence of incident relevant to the charge.

The victim boy had innocently admitted the fact that the allegation of stealing

sugar cane was brought against him while denying the said allegation. But, this

allegation had not been suggested to Nibras the friend of the victim. The

Accused Appellant, in his dock statement, had stated that stealing of sugar

cane was done by children, (not the victim boy alone). These discrepancies

suggest that the allegation of stealing sugar cane had been brought after the

incident.

As per the above situation, the question arising is that whether the failure of

the trial judge analyzing evidence would result in invalidating the conviction.

Sisira de Abrew J in premawansa v.A.d has expressed the view although there

was no judicial evaluation of evidence, learned trial judge, on the evidence led

at the trial could not have arrived at any other conclusion other than the

conclusion reached by him.

Regarding this point, I hold that the mistakes of technicality made by the trial

judge shall not result in invalidating the conclusion unless such mistakes have

led to miscarriage of justice. On the other hand, the Supreme Court and the

Criminal Court of Appeal have repeatedly stressed that deciding the question

of facts is a task of the court of first instance, not the Court of Appeal. The

8

r

I ! I !

\

\ { I I i I II

t ,

! ,II

\,

privy Council, in 1918, has decided in Fradd Vs. Brown & Company limited2

that

" Where the controversy is about veracity of witnesses, immense importance

attaches, not only to the demeanour of the witnesses, but also to the course of

the trial, and the general impression left on the mind of the Judge of first

instance, who saw and noted everything that took place in regard to what was

said by one or other witness. It is rare that a decision of a Judge of first instance

upon a point of fact purely is over-ruled by a Court of Appeal".

Similar opinion has been expressed in the following decisions.

Dharmasiri V. Republic of Sri lanka3

Alwis V. Piyasena4

Sri co-operative Industries Federation ltd V. Kotalawalas

A.G. V. Mary Theresa6

It is a subtle point whether it is the intention or the desire that urges a man to

commit a sexual offence. Unlike in other criminal offences, the sexual act that

is "Actus Reus" itself speaks about the "Mens Rea" of the crime unless the

offender has any other reason for excuse. But, when it comes to the offence of

child abuse, there is no reason for excuse once the physical act has taken

place.

9

i I

\

f f [ , I

1: I

\ I

The Accused Appellant in this case has gone up to the place where the children

were playing cricket. He had called the victim boy to go to his house promising

to give him sugar cane and mangoes. He had taken the boy into his house,

made him lie on the bed and placed his penis on the back of the boy where by

Accused Appellant had committed the offence of child abuse with which he

had been charged. In the circumstances, this court is of the opinion that the

learned trial judge had arrived at the correct conclusion and convicted the

Accused Appellant. As such we have no reason to interfere with the conviction

and the sentence imposed by the trial judge and therefore, we affirm the

conviction and the sentence and dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

H.N.J.PERERA, J

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

1. (2009) 2 SLR 205

2. 20NLR282

3. ((2010)2 SLR 241)

4. ((1993) 1 SLR 119)

5. ((2009) 2 SLR 241)

6. ((2011) 2 SLR 292)

10 I

\

\