==== BLOCKS ==== 

I ! \ I I I 1 I i I I ,

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for revision

against the order dated 28.04.2003 in Case

No. 4623/0 in the District Court of Negombo.

CA Rev. No. 866/2003 Reichmuth Peeter of No. 834,

D.C. Negombo 4623/0 Chilaw Road, Kattuwa,

Negombo.

Plaintiff - Respondent - Petitioner

Vs.

Kurukulasuriya Shiromi

Chandrika Fernando,

No.233, Kimbulapitiya,

Negombo.

Defendant - Petitioner - Respondent

1

!

I!

Ii fI[ I f tI !

I! ! I

JIII I

BEFORE P.W.D.C. JAY ATIDLAKE, J

COUNSEL Manohara de Silva, PC with N. Hippola for

the Plaintiff - Respondent - Petitioner

Rehan Sahabandu PC for the Defendant

Petitioner - Respondent

Argued On 17.07.2014

Decided On 25.09.2014

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake J.

Reichmuth Peeter of Chilaw Road, Kattuwa, Negombo the Plaintiff Respondent -

Petitioner (here in after referred to as Petitioner) has filed a divorce case against

Kurukulasuriya Shiromi Chandrika Fernando of No.233, Kimbulapitiya, Negombo,

the Defendant - Petitioner - Respondent (here in after referred to as Respondent)

in the District Court of Negombo in year 2001. The Respondent has made an

application in the said case for alimony pendente lite and cost of the case. She has

2

II ! I i !

! t I \

'" f

r i

!!

II

f

I ! I

t tIII \

claimed Rs: 50000/= per month as alimony and Rs: 75000/= as the cost of the case.

After an inquiry over this application learned Additional District Judge of Negombo

has made the order dated 28.04.2003 which has been marked as P7 an annex to

the petition of this application. In that order the learned judge has ordered the

Petitioner to pay Rs: 75000/= as cost of the case and Rs: 25000/= monthly payment

as alimony pendente lite. This is an application made by the Petitioner against the

said order of the learned judge praying for setting aside and/or revising the order.

The Petitioner has stated alimony and cost of litigation ordered by the judge are

well beyond the means of the Petitioner.

The learned Counsel for the Petitioner has submitted in his written submission that

the Petitioner had moved for the withdrawal of the divorce case as he was unable

to pay the sum ordered as monthly alimony and cost of litigation. It is stated there

in the learned District Judge had dismissed the application for withdrawal of the

case as the Petitioner was due to pay a total sum of Rs: 750000/= as at 23.06.2003.

The Petitioner has made an application for leave to appeal against the said order to

this court and this court has dismissed the application for leave to appeal.

Thereafter, the Petitioner has sought special leave to appeal against the order of

this court and the Supreme Court has granted leave and the matter had been listed

for argument. Thereafter the Supreme Court has allowed an abatement until the

judgement in this case is delivered.

3

I II

I r j r 1 i !

~ i

\ Ii

! i i ! I

~ !

The learned Additional District Judge has ordered Rs: 25000/= monthly payment as

alimony pendente lite on the basis of the monthly income of the Petitioner that is

Rs: 500000/=. It has been stated in the order of the learned District Judge, even

though the Defendant has mentioned that the monthly income of the Plaintiff is

about Rs: 500000/= she has failed to prove it. The learned judge has come to the

conclusion on an inference drawn by the court that the Plaintiff's monthly income

is about Rs: 500000/= for the reason of plaintiff's failure to prove that he is not

getting a monthly income of Rs: 500000/=. Here, a question arises whether it is

proper for court to arrive at a conclusion on assumptions. There is another

important factor which has to be taken into consideration that is, the maintenance

case in which the order for maintenance for the Respondent has been made. It is

an admitted fact that there is a maintenance case filed by the Respondent claiming

maintenance form the Petitioner and order for maintenance has been made in that

case. Though there is no hard and fast rule that alimony pendente lite cannot be

ordered when there is a maintenance order made under the provisions of the

maintenance ordinance, in my opinion there should be exceptional circumstances

to make such an order. The Petitioner's being a foreigner is not an exceptional

f , circumstance.

Yet again the reason given to ignore the maintenance order of the Magistrate is I

4 !I

that the Petitioner has not proved that the said maintenance order has been made

i !

after an inquiry. Even though the Respondent has stated in her petition that the

maintenance order which had been made on 21.06.1999 is insufficient, no

application for enhancement has been made in that case up to the time of making

the application for alimony pendente lite of the divorce case.

As such this court is of the view that the learned District Judge should have made

an order for alimony pendente lite in the absence of any exceptional circumstance

as there was a maintenance order made by the Magistrate. District Court has

ordered to pay Rs: 75000/= as cost of litigation. In my opinion the cost of litigation

could have been made in consultation with both counsel without going for an

inquiry into that matter. Still for all, if the Petitioner wanted to proceed with the

divorce case despite the fact that he was dissatisfied with the order for the alimony

he could have paid the cost of litigation ordered by the court subject to this revision

application as it was a lump sum for the entire proceedings. There is no reason for

this court to believe that the Petitioner was not in a pOSition to pay his wife Rs:

75000/= as cost of litigation.

For the foregoing reasons, this court set aside the order of alimony pendente lite

made by the learned Additional District Judge. As the Petitioner was bound to pay

the cost of litigation ordered by the court and the District Court had ordered to pay

Rs: 75000/= as cost of litigation 12 years ago, this court decides to change that

5

order to make the amount as Rs: 150000/=. If the Petitioner fails to pay the cost of

litigation to the Respondent within two months from the date of pronouncement

of this order in the District Court, the Petitioner's action shall be dismissed.

Order for alimony pendente lite set aside.

-I

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

i !f

6