==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA PHC 155/2002

P.Chandrasena No. 3/189, Veherayaya, Ethiliwewa.

Appellant -Vs- Deputy Commissioner Agrarian Service Center, Badulla . The Inquiry Office, Agrarian Service Center, Hali Ela. P.A. Jinadasa No. 3/189, Weherayaya, Ethiliwewa.

Respondents

I I 1

J j C. A. (PHC) No.155/2002 PHC Badulla No.(writ) 99/2000

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED AND

DECIDED ON

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J.

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J. &

W.M.M. MAUNIE GUNARATNE,J.

Widura Ranawaka with S Rajapakse and Menaka

Warnapura for the petitioner -appellant.

Nayomi Kahavita SC for the 1 st and 2nd respondent-

responden ts.

David Weeraratne for the 3rd applicant-respondent.

28th October, 2014.

1

It is brought to the notice of Court that the appellant, in his appeal dated

19th July 2002, has not prayed for any particular relief. In the prayer to the

petition, it is stated that the appellant be granted the reliefs prayed for in the

petition. However, the said prayer does not indicate or mention any relief that

the appellant is seeking to have implemented. Therefore, it is clear that the

appellant has not prayed for any relief in the petition of appeal.

Moreover, the petition of appeal has not been properly addressed to

the Court of Appeal, as required by Rule 2(1)(a) of the Court of Appeal

(Procedure for Appeals from the High Courts ) Rules 1988. Adherence to the

aforesaid rules is also important like the importance attached to the

substantive law. In this instance, the appellant has not followed the procedure

!!I! ,i

• 2

referred to in the aforesaid Rule 2(1)(a). The petition of appeal also does not

indicate the provision of law upon which this appeal is filed which is usually

being mentioned as the recital to the petitions, as a practice of Court.

The matters referred to above show that the petition of appeal filed

in this case is defective and not in conformity with the law applicable in filing

and proceeding with an appeal. Therefore this Court is not in a position to

proceed with this appeal due to the aforesaid defects found in the petition of

appeal.

At this stage learned Counsel for the appellant moves that this

Court be exercised its inherent powers and then consider the merits of this

appeal. Having considered the facts of the case, we do not see, that it is

appropriate to exercise inherent powers of this Court at this stage and to

consider the merits of the appeal.

For the aforesaid reasons this appeal is dismissed without costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M. MALINIE GUNARATNE,J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Kwk/=