==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Premaratnage Nissanka Dissanayke,

Accused-Appellant

C.A 190/2009 Vs.

H.C. Anuradhapura

Case No: 134/2003

The Attorney General

Before Sisira J. de A brew ,J. &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

Counsel Dr. Ranjit Fernando for the Accused-

Appellant.

Chethiya Gunasekera SSC. for the A.G.

Argued &

Decided on 17.06.2013.

2

Sisira J. de A brew ,J.

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases. After

arguing the case, learned counsel appearing for the Accused-

Appellant moves to withdraw the appeal on the conviction on count

No: 1. He is also agreeable to bring the conviction under Section

380 of the Penal Code in respect of count No: 2 . Subject to the

above conditions learned Counsel moves to withdraw the appeal

against the conviction on count No: 2.

Learned Senior State Counsel submits that since the firearm

has not been certified as a gun by the Government Analyst, the

Court can convict the accused-appellant on a charge of robbery

(Under Section 380 of the Penal Code) Dr. Ranjit Fernando agrees

with the suggestion made by the learned Senior State Counsel.

The accused-appellant in this case, was convicted for the

offence of attempted murder on a woman named Kiridena

Mudiyanselage Kusum Kumari. He was sentenced to a term of 10

years Rigorous Imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rupees 20,000 I-

carrying a default sentence of 2 1/2 years imprisonment. He was

3

also charged for being in possession of a firearm at the time he

committed robbery of some gold jewellery from the possession of

said Kusum Kumari which is an offence under Section 44 (w ) of the

Firearms Ordinance as amended

with Section 380 of the Penal Code.

by Act No: 22 of 1996 read

Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as follows:

On the day of the incident, Kusum Kumari was returning home

after having a bath from a nearby lake. She was returning on her

bicycle. The time was around 5.30 to 6.00p.m. When she was

returning she heard a threating voice of someone. When she looked

back, she saw a person armed with a gun. She later, at the Police

station, identified this person as the person who robbed her

jewellery and shot at her. She then heard a report of a gun.

Thereafter she without stopping the bicycle continued to go in the

same direction. As she was speeding she fell off the bicycle and

thereafter started running. When she was running she heard

another report of a gun. She then felt that she had sustained

injuries. The accused-appellant dragged her to a thicket and raped

her. Thereafter he robbed the jewellery that she was wearing from

4

her possession. She says that she did not divulge the incident of

rape in her Police Statement as it will be heard by her husband

who is a Police Officer. It appears from her evidence that she

wanted to safe guard her marriage. It is worthwhile to state here

that the accused appellant too is a police officer who has left the

police service without obtaining prior permission. After the

shooting, she was admitted to the hospital. The Doctor who

examined her stated in his evidence that she had received one

entry wound and one exit wound. Around 12.00 noon of the same

day the accused-appellant went to the house of his brother-in-law

and asked for some money. At this time, the accused-appellant was

carrying a bag in which T56 rifle was found. His brother-in-law

Karunaratne Perera states that he saw a T56 gun in the bag of

the accused-appellant. This bag was later found by the Police

Officer at the scene of offence. Karunaratne Perera identified the

said bag. Investigating Police Officers, two days after the incident,

recovered a T56 gun from the house of the accused-appellant. The

Investigating Police Officers have arrested the accused appellant

5 % months after the incident. After the arrest of the accused-

appellant, Police Officers have recovered a certain pawn receipts

5

from the Almira of the accused-appellant. Thereafter the pawn

receipts were taken to the relevant pawning center and the owner

of the pawning center, Mr. Vishvalingam identified the pawn

receipts and the jewellery pawned by the accused-appellant.

Jewellery was handed over to the Police. The accused-appellant at

the time of pawning has given his name as Sarath Gunawardene.

Vishvalingam says that he knows the accused-appellant since he

was a police officer. The Police officer recovered a chain and a

pendent, bracelet and three rings from the pawning center. Kusum

Kumari identified two rings, chain and a pendent which were

taken into custody by the Police from the pawning center. Kusum

Kumari later had seen the accused appellant at the Police station.

Although there was no Identification Parade held, we are of the

opinion, that the identity of the accused-appellant has been

established beyond reasonable doubt, when we consider the

evidence relating to the pawn receipts and the identification of the

jewellery by Kusum Kumari. The accused denied the charge in his

dock statement but he did not deny the recovery of the pawn

receipts and the gun from his house. When we consider the

evidence led at the trial, we are of the opinion that the learned trial

6

judge has correctly convicted the accused -appellant on the charge

of attempted murder. Both counsel are agreeable to alter the

conviction under Section 380 of the Penal Code in respect of count

No: 2. After considering the evidence, we are of the opinion that the

charge of robbery has been established beyond reasonable doubt.

After considering all these matters, we convict the accused

appellant on the charge of robbery which is an offence under

Section 380 of the Penal Code in respect of count No: 2. On this

basis, we set aside the conviction of the offence that the accused-

appellant was in possession of a firearm (in respect of count No 2).

We therefore set aside the life imprisonment imposed on Count

No 2. On Count 2, we have now convicted the accused-appellant

on the charge of robbery which is an offence under Section 380 of

the Penal Code. On this Count, we sentence him to a term of 10

years Rigorous imprisonment. Both terms of imprisonment should

run consecutively. Both counsel admit that the accused-appellant

after conviction has not been released on bail. We direct the Prison

Authorities to implement the sentence from the date of conviction

\

7

(16.11.2009). The total term of imprisonment that he has to

undergo is 20 years R.I in addition to the default sentence. We

affirm the conviction and the sentence on Count No: 1.

Subject to the variation of the conviction and the sentence as

stated above, appeal of the appellant is dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Jmr/-