==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

Dissanayake Mudiyanselage Udaya Ranjith Municipal Engineering Department (Planning) Colombo Municipal Council. Town Hall, Colombo 7.

Court of Appeal Case No: CA (PHC) No:14112010

Case No: HCRA 61109

H. C.R.A: 6112009

Magistrate Court of

Colombo Case No: 934115

Applicant - Petitioner.

Vs.

S.A. Rajalingam,

No: 102/2,

Sri Rathnajothi Saravanamuttu Mawatha,

Colombo 03.

Respondent.

AND

In the matter of an Application in Revision in

Terms of article 154(6) of the constitution

read together with section 28(AO (3) of the

Urban Development Authority Act No. 41 of

1978 as amended by Act No. 04 of 1988 and,

Act (special Provision) No. 44 of 1984 read

together with section 15 of the Provincial

1

~ l !r

rt!

tII

I

f

fIII

High Court 9 (Special Provinces) Act No. 19

of 1990.

Dissanayake Mudiyanselage Udaya Ranjith Municipal Engineering Department (Planning) Colombo Municipal Council, Town Hall, Colombo 7.

Applicant - Petitioner - Petitioner

-Vs-

S.A. Rajalingam,

No: 10212,

Sri Rathnajothi Saravanamuttu Mawatha,

Colombo 03.

Respondent - Respondent.

AND NOW BETWEEN

Dissanayake Mudiyanselage Udaya Ranjith Municipal Engineering Department (Planning) Colombo Municipal Council, Town Hall, Colombo 7.

Applicant - Petitioner -Petitioner - Annellant

S.A. Rajalingam,

2

f II

! II

f I

\

,lf J j !

Before

No: 102/2,

Sri Rathnajothi Saravanamuttu Mawatha,

Colombo 03.

: W.M.M.Malinie Gunarathne, J

: P.R. Walgama, J

Counsel : Jacob Joseph with Nipuni Amarasinghe for the

Complainant - Petitioner - Appellant.

: P. N arendran for the Respondent.

Argued on : 28.07.2015

Decided on: 16.10.2015

CASE- NO- CA (PHC) 1411 2010- JUDGMENT- 16/0112015

P.R. Walgama, J

The instant appeal IS directed against the orders of the Learned

High Court Judge dated 19.11.2010 and the Learned Magistrate's

order dated 20.02.2009, and urged Court to set aside the same.

The Applicant-Petitioner- Appellant(herein after called and referred to

as the Appellant instituted legal proceedings against the Respondent-

Respondent( herein After sometimes called and referred to as the

Respondent) In terms of Section 28(a)(3) of the Urban

Development Authority Act No.41 of 1978 as amended by Act No.

3

f I IIi

~ I

~ i I! , !f t II ! trI

I[

I,

~

04 of 1982 and Act No. 44 of 1984(Special Provisions) in the

Magistrate Court of Colombo in the Case bearing No. 9341/5 for

constructing an unauthorized structure, namely a store room, toilet

room without a valid permit, and thereby

Section 8(a)(1) of the Urban Development Authority

and a bath

contravening

Act.

The Learned Magistrate by his impugned order dated 20.02.2009

had observed the following;

That the Urban Development Authority made an application to

Issue an order in terms of Section 28 of the said Act.

To make order to pay a fine of Rs. 50,0001 In tern=ms of

Section 28( 1) of Urban Development Act.

That after a conviction, if it continues to have the unauthorized

structure exist, to order a fine of Rs. 1000/per day.

The Learned Magistrate was of the VIew sInce the Colombo

Municipality has instituted action in terms of Section 28(3) of the

above Act, the Court IS empowered to authorized the Municipality

to either to demolish, to alter the construction, or not to use the

said construction. There fore the Learned Magistrate was of the

VieW that to order a fine without a summery trial, is ultra vires,

and for that purpose an action has to be instituted in terms of

Section 136 of the Criminal Procedure Code.

In the above setting the Learned Magistrate held that the reliefs

claimed under Section 28 and 28 (a) is contrary to each other

4

IIIi I i

~ i

~. I

~ l "I !

1! I

I

ti i

and there fore it was held that the said counts cannot be

maintained, and had dismissed the application of the Applicant-

Appellant.

Being aggrieved by the said order the Applicant -Petitioner has by

wayan application m reVISIon applied to the Provincial High

Court of Colombo to have the said order set aside or vacate.

The Learned High Court Judge m the impugned order dated

19.11.2010 has up held the order of the Learned Magistrate and

was of the view that the Applicant- Petitioner has not established

exceptional circumstances, to exercise the Revisionary jurisdiction of

the High Court.

In the said back drop it was held that the facts averred by the

Petitioner m the Petition to the High Court do not warrant an

invocation of the Revisionary Powers of the High Court, and had

dismissed the said application of the Applicant- Petitioner

accordingly.

Being aggrieved by the said order the Petitioner- Appellant has

preferred the instant appeal, seeking to set aside tilt:: said orders

of the Learned Magistrate and the Learned High Court Judge of

the above said dates.

The Section under which the Respondent- Respondent was charged

by the Applicant -Appellant IS Section 28( 1) of the Urban

Development Authority law No. 4 of 1982, states thus;

I

f i !I

5 1

I

"Every person who contravenes or fails to comply with any

prOVISIOn of this law, of any regulation, rule, order, direction or

requirement made or gIven there under shall be guilty of an

offence under this law, and shall, on conviction after summary trial

before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty

thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either description for a

term not exceeding two years or to both such fine and

imprisonment. "

Therefore it IS crystal clear that it IS incumbent on the Magistrate

to hold an inquiry in to the application of the Applicant and

should make an appropriate order accordingly. In the instant matter

the Learned Magistrate has made the impugned order that no fine

should be imposed without an inquiry. Therefore after forming the

said opinion had dismissed the Applicant's application on the basis

that the charges are not properly framed.

The above charges are framed well within the frame of Section

28( 1 ) of the said Act. Therefore this Court IS of the view that

the Learned Magistrate and the Learned High Court has made a

blatant error when it was decided that the Applicant-Petitioner's

application should be dismissed.

Hence for the reasons set out here in before we are inclined to

set aside the above impugned orders and direct the Magistrate to

hold a proper mqUIry m to the application of the Applicant-

Petitioner-Appellant accordingly.

6

I r

~ , t I ! I

II

r f I IJ J \

In the said

reviewed, we

forthwith.

back drop when

are of the VIew

the said impugned

that same should

Accordingly we allow the appeal, without costs.

orders are

be vacated

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M.Malinie Gunarathne, J

I agree,

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

7

II