==== BLOCKS ==== 

•

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 953 I 2000 F

D.C. Negombo No. 83 I 95 IClaim

1. J.P.C. Peiris, 81/1, Balagalla Road, Hendala, Wattala. 2. H.A. Vinitha Maheshwari Peiris, 81/1, Balagalla Road, Hendala, Wattala.

Claimant Petitioners

Vs.

Williams Confectioneries Limited,

22, Athurs Place,

Dehiwala.

Plaintiff Respondent

AND NOW BETWEEN

1. J.P.C. Peiris, 81/1, Balagalla Road, Hendala, Wattala. 2. H.A. Vinitha Maheshwari Peiris, 81/1, Balagalla Road, Hendala, Wattala.

Claimant Petitioner Appellants

Vs.

Williams Confectioneries Limited,

22, Athurs Place,

Dehiwala.

Plaintiff Respondent-Respondent

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

Sujeewa Senanayake for the Claimant Petitioner Appellants.

The Plaintiff Respondent-Respondent absent and unrepresented.

17.11.2011

15.12.2011

The Plaintiff Respondent-Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the

Respondent) who being the judgement creditor of Mount Lavinia District Court

case No 36 / 92 / M had taken out a writ of execution of the decree entered in

favour of him in the said case. Accordingly the Fiscal of the District Court of

Negombo who entered in to the premises bearing No 81 / 1 of Balagala Road,

Hendala, Wattala which was owned by the 1 st Claimant Petitioner Appellant

(hereinafter referred to as the Appellant) had seized the movable property in the

said premises. The 1 st and 2nd Appellants thereafter had preferred a claim

application against the said seizure of the property. The learned District Judge of

Negombo after hearing the evidence of the Claimants has released some of the

seized property and has rejected the claim against the other property under seizure.

It appears from the order of the learned District Judge dated

16.08.2000 that he was of the view that the Appellants were unable to establish

their title to the said property under seizure.

I

,

3

The Appellants contended that the Fiscal had entered in to a wrong

house and had seized the property in the said house. They submitted that the Fiscal

had entered into the 1 st Appellant's premises No 8111 at Balagala Road and had

seized the Appellants' property. But the Fiscal in his report had stated that he had

seized the property in premises No 84, Balagala Road. At the inquiry, the Fiscal's

report had been produced marked XII.

It appears from the evidence led at the inquiry that the Respondent

had failed to adduce any evidence to clarify the said contradictory position. The

certified copies of the electoral register which had been produced marked X 14, X

15 and X 16 clearly establish the fact that the premises No 84 and 8111 at Balagala

Road are two different premises.

In the said circumstances I set-aside the order of the learned

Additional District Judge dated 20.10.2000 and allow the Appeal of the Appellant

without costs.

Appeal allowed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal