==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE. COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRTIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA 197/2008

HC COLOMBO B 1555/05

DON SIMON SIGANETHTHI

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

VS

DIRECTOR GENERAL,

COMMISSION FOR INVESTIGATION INTO BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION,

36, MALALASEKARA MAWATHA,

COLOMBO 7

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDENT

BEFORE: A W A SALM, J & SUNIL RAJAPAKSHA, J

COUNSEL: Iqbal Mohamed with M.I.M. Ishara for the accused-appellant and Thusith Mudalige, S.S.C for the complainant-respondent.

ARGUED ON : 23.01.2014

DECIDED ON : 24.03.2014

III

I I !

A W A SALAM, J . '

The accused-appellant who functioned as the Registrar of

the District Court of Monaragala during the period

relevant to the charges under consideration in this appeal,

stood arraigned by the Director-General for the Prevention

of Bribery and Corruption for soliciting and accepting a

gratification or reward to execute a writ of possession

against a Judgment-Debtor in a civil case. The charges

preferred against him wre as follows ..

1. Between 16.04.1998 and 16.5.1998 while

holding the public office, as Registrar of the District

Court of Monaragala solicited a gratification or

reward of Rs 5000/- from Ratnayaka Mudiyanselage

Anulawathie, as an inducement for the performance

of an official duty, namely to execute a writ of

possession to hand over the vacant possession of

two boutique rooms to her as commanded by the

decree entered in rent and ejectment case bearing

No 07 in D.C Monaragala and thereby committed an

offence punishable under Section 19 (b) of the

Bribery Act.

2. At the same time, place and in the course of

the same transaction as referred to in count No 1,

while holding the public office, as the Registrar of

the District Court of Monaragala, solicited a sum of

Rs. 5000/-as a gratification from Ratnayaka

Mudiyanselage Anulawathie and thereby co'mmitted

CA 197/2008 HC Colombo 1555/05 Judgment 24.03.2014

rffIII t ,, I !

! t I t { I i I ! I I I

J i I I

, an offence punishable under Section 19 (c) of the

Bribery Act, read together with Section 8 of the

bribery (amendment) Law No 38 of 1974 and

Section 11 of the-'Bribery (amendment) Act No 9 of

1980.

3. At the same time, place and in the same

course of transaction as mentioned in count No 1

above, while holding the public office aforesaid

accepted a reward or gratification of Rs 4000/-

from Ratnayaka Mudianselage Munasingha as an

inducement for the performance of an official act,

namely to execute a writ of possession to hand over

vacant possession of two

Ratnayaka Mudiyanselage

boutique rooms to

Anulawathie as

commanded by the decree entered in rent and

ejectment case bearing No 07 in D.C, Monaragala

and thereby committed an offence punishable under

Section 19 (b) of the Bribery Act.

4. At the same time, place and In the same

course of transaction men tioned in coun t No 1

above, while holding the public office, as Registrar

aforesaid accepted a gratification or reward of a sum

of Rs 4000/-from Ratnayaka Mudiyanselage

Munasingha and thereby committed an offence

punishable under Section 19 (c) of the bribery act,

read together with Section 8 of the Bribery

CA 197/2008 HC Colombo 1555/05 Judgment 24.03.2014

(,

fI

f II

J

J ! f r I II

(amendment) Law No 38 of 1974 and Section 11 of

the Bribery (amendment) Act No 9 of 1980.

The learned High Court Judge after trial by judgment

-~., ~-dated 25 July 2008 found the accused-appellant guilty on

all four counts and sentenced him to undergo 4 years RI

on each count but to run concurrently. Further, he

imposed a fine of Rs.5000 / - on each count with a default

sentence of 1 year imprisonment. In addition, he ordered

the recovery the gratification said to have been accepted

by the accused-appellant, as a fine imposed by court and

in default of payment of the said fine sentenced him to a

anoer period of im prisonmen t for 1 year.

Aggrieved by the said judgment and sentence, the

accused-appellant has preferred the instant appeal to have

the. conviction and sentence set aside. When the appeal

was taken up for argument, the learned Senior State

Counsel, bringing the age old traditions of the Official Bar,

once again back to life, submitted that he was not inclined

to support the conviction and sentence. The reasons

adduced by the learned Senior State Counsel for his

decision are quite obvious, when the evidence for the

prosecu tion IS examined regard being had to the

misdirection in the judgment.

Counts No 1 and 2 preferred in the indictment refer to a

sum of Rs 5000/-being solicited by the accused-

appellant. Counts No 3 and 4 refer to a sum of Rs 4000/-

being accepted by the accused-appellant. According to the

CA 197/2008 HC Colombo 1555/05 Judgment 24.03.2014

evi<;lence of R M Anulawathie, the accused-appellant had

solicited Rs.4000 / - from her to execute the decree in the

civil case. However, as per 1st and the 2nd counts, the

accused-appellant stooCl- charged for soliciting Rs.SOOO/-.

The learned High Court Judge without amending count

No's 1 and 2 found the accused-appellant guilty of

soliciting Rs.SOOO / -, whereas even if the evidence of the

main witness for the prosecution is accepted, it would

amount to the accused-appellant having solicited Rs.

4000/- and not Rs. 5000/ -. In this context, it appears that

the finding of the learned High Court Judge to the effect

that the charge relating to the accused-appellant soliciting

a sum of Rs.SOOO/ - has been proved beyond reasonable

doubt is unsupported by evidence and therefore points to

a clear misdirection.

As far as the 3rd and 4th counts are concerned the

accused-appellants was alleged to have accepted a sum of

Rs. 4000/- from Ratnayaka Mudiyanselage' Munasingha,

in order to carry out certain duties relating to the

execution of a writ of possession in favour of Ratnayaka

Mudiyanselage Anulawathie. Therefore, in order to bring

horne a charge of accepting an illegal gratification, the

prosecution ought to have proved beyond reasonable

doubt amongst other things that the accused-appellant

accepted a sum of Rs. 4000/-from Ratnayaka

Mudiyanselage Munasingha.

CA 197/2008 HC Colombo 1555/05 Judgment 24.03.2014

Ii If f I I I

f

f

f

The evidence led by the prosecu tion on this aspect is

totally contradictory to the charges framed against him.

The evidence of the main witness for the prosecution

(Anulawathie) was that the gratification or reward

concerned was handed over to the accused-appellant by

her In the presence of her hus band Ratnayaka

Mudiyanselage Munasingha. The learned High Court

Judge has failed to give any attention to this important

aspect of the matter before he decided to convict the

accused-appellant. This, in my opinion has led to a grave

misdirection ending up in a travesty of justice.

The only eyewitness through whom the prosecution could

have corroborated the allegation against the accused-

appellant was Ratnayaka Mudiyanselage Munasingha. As

he was not among the living, when the trial came up, the

prosecution appears to have been prevented from leading

his evidence to corroborate the evidence of the main

witness Anulawathie. The question that remains to be

addressed here is whether the conviction of the accused-

appellant is safe in the light of the discrepancy between

the charges and the uncorro borated evidence of

Anulawathie that she offered the gratification to the

accused -appellant.

As regards the question of corroboration of the evidence of

Anulawathie, the learned High Court Judge has relied on

the proposition of law laid down in Sunil V s Attorney

General 1999 SLR Volume 3 191. No doubt it was laid

CA 197/2008 HC Colombo 1555/05 Judgment 24.03.2014

I

down by this court in the case of Sunil Vs Attorney

General (supra) that there appears to be a mIsgIvIng

among trial Judges that the testimony of a witness in

bribery prosecution is required to be corroborated before it

could be acted upon and such a proposition is a manifest

error of law.

In this respect it is worthwhile referring to the judgment in

K D M Gunasekara Vs Attorney General 79 1 New Law

Report page 348. In that case the accused-appellant, was

charged with having solicited a sum of Rs. 100/ - and with

having accepted a gratification of a sum of Rs. 100/ - to

issue a birth certificate. The complainant stated that his

father was present when the accused asked for the money

and the latter was listed as the witness on the back of the

indictment, but the case for the prosecution was closed

eventually without the father being called as a witness.

The trial Judge stated that the accused did not give

evidence and since the complainant's evideI1ce was free of

contradictions, no corroboration was necessary. The

accused was convicted on both counts.

Vythialingam, J with the concurrence of Malcolm Perera,

J, and Ratwatta, J delivering the judgment of the Supreme

Court emphasised that although the evidence in a bribery

case is uncontradictory, it needs to be tested and

evaluated in the ordinary way before it is accepted.

No doubt, in terms of Section 79 of the Bribery Act in any

proceedings for bribery, the giver of a gratification shall be

CA 197/2008 HC Colombo 1555/05 Judgment 24.03.2014

I

I

i

tf

t

a competent witness against the person accused of taking

the gratification and shall not be regarded as an

accomplice, and the decision or finding shall not be illegal

merely because it proceeds upon the uncorroborated

testimony of such giver.

In Siriwardena v. Republic (S. C. Appeal No. 6-7/75-D. C.

Colombo 245/B.-S. C. Minutes of 20.12.76) the Supreme

Court pointed out that it is of course open to the trial

Judge to convict on the uncorroborated testimony of the

complainant provided he found it to be cogent and

convincing and Section 79 (1) of the Bribery Act which

enables him to do so.

As far as the present case is concerned, the learned Judge

has failed to take into account that there is nothing in the

Brtbery Act in Section 79 which enhances the credibility of

the prosecution witness Anulawatie to dispense with the

necessity of looking for corroboration. (Vide Queen, 75

N.L.R. 121 at 126).

It is the bounden duty of any trial Judge, to evaluate the

evidence of the 'giver' of a gratification despite the fact that

he is not treated as an accomplice in the commission of

the offence, in the ordinary way before he accepts the

testimony of the giver as being true.

The experience of a Judge, in this respect is so valuable

that the citizens most of the time feel safe in the hands of

Judges than in an administrative body, when decisions

CA 197/2008 HC Colombo 1555/05 Judgment 24.03.2014

t I f , I

f

fft

concerning their fate in matters involving their liberty are

taken, for they possess the judicial training to approach

an issue in the way as permitted by law, irrespective of

other consideration. However, such an approach IS

patently lacking in the impugned judgment, both In

respect of the finding and the manner of sentencing.

Another striking feature in the impugned judgment

revolves around the failure of the trial Judge to estimate

the quality of the evidence given by the main prosecution

witness and to give the benefit of doubt arising from such

contradictions to the accused-appellant. The question

relating to corroboration of the version of the prosecution

should have been addressed only if the evidence of the

"giver" is convincing. The narration of the incident by the

main witness was extremely weak and unconvincing in

every material particular. The complaint to the Bribery

Commission has been admittedly made after 2 years and 8

months. The delay in making the complaint -to the Bribery

Commission has not been satisfactorily explained, nor has

it been considered as a fact favourable to the accused-

i appellant.

Further, In the complaint made to the Bribery

Commission, Anulawathie has charged the accused-

appellant of having accepted Rs 10000/- and upon being

questioned as to the discrepancy has failed to give an

acceptable explanation.

CA 197/2008 HC Colombo 1555/05 Judgment 24.03.2014

tf

L

f•! ! r

J•f IIt

1 I

The learned High Court Judge has neither embarked upon

any critical examination or careful analysis of the evidence

adduced by the prosecu tion nor has he properly

considered the evidential value of the dock statement

made by the accused-appellant. Inherent improbabilities

of the case for the prosecution has not been addressed at

all, by the learned High Court Judge.

As regards the actual amount of money allegedly solicited

and accepted as a bribe, the learned High Court Judge

quite correctly has emphasised in the judgment that there

are unsatisfactory features in the evidence of the

pro'secution witnesses. However, he has treated them as

being trivial.

I am of the opInIon that HAD the learned High Court

Judge treated those contradictions and the unsatisfactory

features in the evidence led in the case, in its correct

perspective, he would never have found the accused-

appellant guilty of the charges levelled against him.

For reasons stated above, I set aside the findings,

conviction and sentence imposed on the accused-appellant

and acquit him from all the charges.

As the Honourable Attorney General has rightly elected

not to support the conviction, it is very unlikely that there

will be a further appeal against this judgment. As such,

the Registrar of the High Court is directed to forthwith

CA 197/2008 HC Colombo 1555/05 Judgment 24.03.2014

r;

release the cash bail, the accused-appellant has furnished

pending appeal.

Appeal allowed and conviction quashed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Sunil Rajapakha, J

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

NRj-

CA 197/2008 HC Colombo 1555/05 Judgment 24.03.2014

I

,

i

f I f I

f I

f