==== BLOCKS ==== 

INT~TCO~XTOL~PPT~OLT~TV~OCRATIC

SOCI.5U.IST'RTP'U1JilC 0,£ SID £.54:NX54..

C.A. No.: BOOJ95(F).

D.C. Negombo case No.: 42981l.

Warnakulasooriya Felix Fernando of 'Malsiri', Rukattanagaha Junction, Kimbulapitiya Road, Negombo.

Plaintiff Appellant (now deceased)

K. Mary Margaret Perera of 'Malsiri', Rukattanagaha Junction, Kimbulapitiya Road, Negombo.

Substituted Plaintiff Appeflant

Vs

P.L.P. Ethel Freeda Senevin:tne of No. 67, Thalduwa Road, Negombo.

Defendant Respondent.

Counsel: Dr. Sunil Cooray for the Defendant/Respondent.

S.A.D.S.Suraweera with CA. Boteju for the Plaintiff/Appellant.

Written Submissions: 17-2-2010(Plaintiff/ Appellant)

26-3-2010(Defendant/Respondent)

Before: Rohini Marasinghe J

y Judgment: 28-6-2011)

CA 800-95

1. The original Plaintiff/Appellant namely one Felix Fernando filed action

against the defendant. The action was to obtain an order directing the

defendant to transfer the premises described in the plaint to the

plaintiff. The case of the plaintiff was that, the plaintiff and the

defendant had an oral agreement by which the defendant agreed to sell

the premises in suit to the defendant. The plaintiff averred that based on

1

this agreement, the plaintiff built two additional rooms, had done

repairs, and had taken electricity to the premises in suit. The total

expenditure as calculated by the plaintiff amounted to about 12 lakhs.

Consequently, the plaintiff sought the transfer of the property in his

name. Or in the alternative the plaintiff sought for an order to retain the

premises in suit until the said money was paid to him. The facts that the

plaintiff is the tenant and the defendant is the landlord of the premises

were not in dispute. The monthly rent of the premises in suit was

Rupees 60. That too was not in dispute. The fact that the amounts of

money reflected in the promissory notes marked as P1 (a) to P1 (e) were

received by the defendant was also not in dispute.

The defendant by his answer sought dismissal of the action. After trial the

action was dismissed. The plaintiff appealed.

The plaintiff gave evidence at the trial. In his evidence the plaintiff admitted

that the defendant was not the owner of the premises in suit now. The deeds

by which the defendant had transferred the premises in suit were marked in

evidence. Consequently, the court cannot make any order directing the

defendant to transfer the property in suit in the name of the plaintiff.

2

The next two questions were: First, whether the plaintiff could recover the

money spent by the plaintiff for the improvements made to the house in

question by the plaintiff. And, second, whether the plaintiff could retain the

premises in suit until the money was paid to the plaintiff. The plaintiff had not

been able to establish the fact that the money was spent on the premises in

suit as a result of the oral agreement. Notwithstanding the fact that there was

no evidence on that point, the plaintiff cannot sue the defendant for the sale

of the property without a written agreement to sell executed by a notary. The

Trial Judge had held that the money transaction was an independent

transaction which was not related to the sale of the premises in suit. The

plaintiff cannot spend for improvements on the rented premises and claim that

sum from the landlord -defendant. A tenant has to resort to section 13 of the

Rent Act to do any repairs to rented premises. Therefore, taking all these

matters into consideration I am of the view that the plaintiff had no cause of

action against the defendant. The plaintiff's action had been correctly

dismissed. I affirm the judgment.

The appeal is dismissed.

~,)~

Rohini Marasinghe J

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

3