==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

c.A. Writ Application No: 1046/2008

In the matter of an Application under

Article 140 of the Constitution of the

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

Lanka for mandates in the nature of

Writs of Certiorari and Prohibition.

Brown and Company PLC,

481,T.B.Jayah Mawatha,

Colombo 10.

Petitioner

Vs

1. W.D.J.5eneviratne,

Minister of Labour,

Ministry of Labour,

Labour Secretariat,

Department of Labour,

Narahenpita.

lA. Athauda Seneviratne,

Minister of Labour Relations and

ManPower.

Ministry of Labour,

Labour Secretariat,

Department of Labour,

Narahenpita.

I I f

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued on

Decided on

S.Sriskandarajah J

2

2. The Commissioner General of

Labour, Labour Secretariat,

Department of Labour, Narahenpita.

3. J.R.De Silva,

9/1, Galwala Road,

Mount Lavinia.

4. Ceylon Mercantile Industrial &

General Workers Union (CM. U)

No.3,22nd Lane, Colombo 3.

5. Browns Engineering (Pvt) Ltd.,

33, Kurunduwatta Road,

Rathmalana.

Respondents.

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J.

A.R.Surendran P.C with N.Kandeepan,

K.Tharshini and M.Jude Dinesh.

for the Petitioner

Sobhitha Rajakuduwa SSC

for the 1st and 2nd Respondents

S.Edirisinghe

for the 4th Respondent

18.11.2010

13.01.2011

A dispute concerning the termination of employment of eight workmen was

referred to arbitration by the 1st Respondent on the 23rd of September 1999.

The terms of reference is as follows:

t f $. , I ! II f ! , I I

, l

~ , i l

3

"The matter in dispute between the aforesaid parties is whether the

termination of the services of the following eight (OB) employees by Brown

& Company Limited is justified and to what relief each of them is entitled.

(1) T.R. Lailaden

(2) Mr.J.A.Premadasa

(3) Mrs. S.V.Balendara

(4) Mr.K.B.Weerasinghe

(5) Mr.N.5ivarajah

(6) Mr.M.I.M.5ideek

(7) Mr.E.M.5haffie

(B) Mr.U.K.Rodrio"

It appears from the proceedings of the said arbitration bearing No A 2760

dated 27.04.2000 that both parties to the dispute namely the Petitioner and the

4th Respondent had made submissions that Browns Engineering (Pvt) Ltd is a

necessary party to this dispute. Considering these submissions the arbitrator

had directed the Registrar to forward the proceedings to the Commissioner of

Labour for necessary amendments to the terms of reference.

The Commissioner of Labour in respect of the same dispute made the

Petitioner, the Browns Engineering (Pvt) Ltd ( 5th Respondent) and the 4th

Respondent as parties and the terms of reference is amended as follows:

"The matter in dispute between the aforesaid parties is whether the

termination of the services of the following eight employees who were

transferred from Brown & Company Ltd to Browns Engineering (Pvt) Ltd is

justified ,and to what relief each of them is entitled. This reference was given

a new Arbitration No.A2B07. The arbitrator after hearing both parties decided

that it is not necessary to proceed with arbitration bearing No A 2760 and to

proceed with the arbitration bearing No A 2B07.

I I I 4

The Petitioner raised a preliminary objection before the arbitrator that the

reference of the dispute to arbitration by the 1st Respondent is invalid as it

was made after revoking the previous reference of the same dispute for

arbitration. The arbitrator rejected this preliminary objection and continued

with the arbitration. The Browns Engineering (Pvt) Ltd the 5th Respondent

did not participate in the arbitration even though it was noticed. Pending

inquiry the employee Mr.E.M.5haffie withdrew from the proceedings on the

basis that he has received compensation from Browns Engineering (Pvt) Ltd.

After the conclusion of the inquiry written submissions were filed by both

parties. Thereafter the learned arbitrator made an award holding that the

Petitioner was the employer of the workmen and as their services were

terminated that it should make payments to the said seven employees a sum

of Rs.100,OOOj - each for wrongful dismissal, full salaries to be paid to each

employee from the date of termination up to their expected date of

retirements and gratuity to be paid to each employee as per the calculation

given in annexure '9'.

The Petitioner is seeking to quash the aforesaid award on three grounds.

Firstly the Petitioner contended that the learned Arbitrator misdirected

himself and was in error in not considering the preliminary objection of the

Petitioner that the Arbitration proceedings in A2807 is vitiated by the

unlawful revocation of the reference to arbitration made in A 2760 and re-

referring the same to a fresh arbitration.

The 1 st Respondent Minister after considering the reference of a dispute made

by the 2nd Respondent the Commissioner of Labour referred the said dispute

for settlement by arbitration to the 3rd Respondent. The 3rd Respondent was

appointed as an arbitrator by the 1st Respondent under Section 4(1) of the

Industrial Disputes Act for this purpose. It is settle law that the Minister has

no power to revoke his order of reference of a dispute to an arbitrator and re-

refer to another arbitrator; Nadarajah Ltd v Krishnathasan78 NLR 253,Piyadasa v

Bata Shoe Co Ltd (1982)1 Sri L R 91 . Sharvananda J in Nadarajah Ltd v

Krishnathasan at page 259 held:

5

"Thus, according to the scheme of the Act, the Minister does not come into the

picture once he had made a reference under section 4(1) and he cannot

frustrate such reference on second thoughts. That Arbitrator proceeds with

the reference without interference and directions from the Minister. Once he

has acquired jurisdiction over the dispute between the parties, the Minister

cannot divest him of that jurisdiction. Situations may however arise

necessitating a second reference if the Arbitrator declines, resigns, dies or

becomes incapable of performing his functions, or leaves Sri Lanka under

circumstances showing that he will probably not return at an early date.

Strictly speaking, in such an event there is no occasion to withdraw or

supersede any reference from the first Arbitrator; the first Arbitrator has

ceased to function and there is a frustration of the reference, and so there is in

existence no Arbitrator who could act on such reference."

The rationale behind the aforesaid judgement is that once a reference is made

for arbitration it should not be frustrated or it should not be revoked from one

arbitrator and re-refer to another arbitrator unless in situations that

necessitating a second arbitration such as the arbitrator declines, resigns, dies

or become incapable of performing his functions or leaves Sri Lanka and not

returning at an early date. In the present case by the 2nd reference the

arbitration is neither frustrated nor it is revoked from one arbitrator and re-

refer to another arbitrator. The 1st reference bearing Arbitration No A 2760

was made by the 1st Respondent to the 3rd Respondent to settle the dispute by

arbitration. After the arbitration proceedings has commenced the parties to

the dispute made submissions to the arbitrator that the 5th Respondent is a

necessary party to the arbitration proceedings. Considering this submissions

the Arbitrator referred the matter to the 2nd Respondent to make necessary

6

amendments to the reference in order to include the 5th Respondent as a party

to the arbitration proceedings. The 2nd Respondent amended the reference

which read as "Whether the termination of the services of the following eight

(8) employees by Brown & Company Limited is justified" to read as "Whether

the termination of the services of the following eight (8) employees who were

transferred from Brown & Company Limited to Brown's Engineering Private

Ltd is justified". The amended reference was given a new number Arbitration

No. A 2807. The reference was made to the same arbitrator and by this

amendment the 1st reference was not frustrated but it has been modified to

facilitate a proper settlement of the dispute.

Hence the Petitioner's submission that the arbitration proceedings in A2807

are vitiated by the unlawful revocation of the reference to arbitration made in

A 2760 has no merit.

The second ground on which the Petitioner challenged the said arbitration

award was on the basis that the 1 st Respondent is not the employer but the 5th

Respondent was the employer of these workmen.

The facts revealed that the said employees were appointed by the 1st

Respondent and while they were serving as employees of the 1st Respondent

the 1st Respondent transferred the said employees to the 5th respondent

Company by letter dated 16.03.1992 and inform them that they will be

employees of the 5th Respondent Company with effect from 01.03.1992. The

said employees protested the transfer and wrote letters individually to the 1st

Respondent and informed the 1st Respondent that they cannot be transferred

to the 5th Respondent Company and they are the employees of the 1st

Respondent company. The 5th Respondent by its letter of 23.11.1994

terminated the employment of the said employees.

r I I

,I , f

7

In Cason Cumber-batch Co. Ltd v WD.Nandasena President Labour Tribunal and

two others 77 N L R 79 the Supreme Court held: "To turn to the definition of

the term' employer' in the Industrial Dispute Act, we are of the opinion that

the person referred to as a person employing a workmen in each of the three

limbs of the definition is intended to refer to a person who is under the

contractual obligation to the workmen." In the instant case the contract of

employment was constituted by the 1st Respondent offering employment to

the said workmen by issuing letters of appointment and the said workmen

accepting the same and worked in the 1st Respondent Company as employees

of the 1st Respondent Company. The 5th Respondent at no stage had given

letters of appointment to the said workmen. The said workmen have

protested their transfer to the 5th Respondent Company. Under these

circumstances the learned arbitrator has correctly concluded that the

employer of the said workmen is the 1st Respondent Company and not the 5th

Respondent Company.

The Petitioner also challenged the arbitration award on the basis that the

Quantum of compensation awarded to the said employees particularly

awarding full salaries computed till they reached their age of retirement is

repugnant to the basic norms of computation of compensation in Industrial

Law. The gratuity awarded is ultra-vires as the calculation of gratuity is based

on the salaries they would have received when they reach the age of

retirement.

The learned arbitrator in his award has directed that the 1st Respondent

should make payments to the aforesaid 7 employees as follows:

(1) For wrongful dismissal Rs. 100,000/ - for each employee,

(2) Pay full salaries from the date of termination till their retirement at

the rate given in the annexture 9

(3) Pay the gratuity calculated up to their retirement age.

I I 8

The duty of an arbitrator is to make an award that is just and equitable;

Stratheden Tea Co.Ltd v Selvadurai (1965) 66 NLR 06. Rajaratnam J when

explaining the requirements of just and equitable order in Ceylon Tea

Plantations Co.Ltd v Ceylon Estate Staffs' Union SC 211/72 SC minutes 15.05.1974

observed:

/I A just and equitable order no doubt is an order that the tribunal is

empowered and obliged to make as may appear to the tribunal just and

equitable. But it is an order that can be reviewed by this court on the

acceptance of the findings of the Tribunal and if this order has been made

without any consideration for the employer or the management and the

business efficiency of the particular industry. A just and equitable order must

be fair by all parties. It never means the safeguarding of the interest of the

workmen alone."

The learned arbitrator when awarding compensation has divided the

compensation in different components, namely compensation for wrongful

dismissal as one component and compensation for the loss of employment

and gratuity as other components. The arbitrator has correctly come to the

finding that the termination of the services of the 7 workmen is not justified.

In these circumstances the arbitrator could have considered the relief of

reinstatement with back wages or compensation in lieu of reinstatement. The

arbitrator has chosen to grant compensation. In that event he should have

awarded compensation that is awarded to a workman whose services are

terminated in similar circumstances. In the instant case he has awarded

excessive compensation and when compensation is awarded there is no

necessity to award a separate sum for wrongful dismissal. The gratuity

payment is a statutory payment and it has to be paid according to law. The

arbitrator has no right to determine the payment of gratuity based on their

retirement age. For this reasons this court issues a writ of certiorari to quash

the following part of the award:

I

~ I

f i I ,

~

~

•

• 9

"I direct that the that the 1st Respondent should make payments to the

aforesaid 7 employees as follows:

(1) For wrongful dismissal Rs. 100,000/ - for each employee,

(2) Pay full salaries from the date of termination till their retirement at

the rate given in the annexture 9

(3) Pay the gratuity calculated up to their retirement age.

as this part of the award is not just and equitable and as hence it is illegal.

As this court agrees with the findings of the arbitrator that the termination of

the employment of the seven employees named in the reference is not

justified and the Petitioner is the employer of these seven employees. In this

circumstances this court award compensation to the said seven workmen

calculated on the formula published by the Commissioner of Labour in the

Government Gazette Extraordinary No.1384/07 dated 15th March 2005. The

Court direct the 2nd Respondent the Commissioner General of Labour to

calculate the compensation according to the aforesaid formula and inform the

Petitioner the quantum of compensation payable to each of the seven

employees to facilitate the Petitioner to pay the compensation. The said

employees are entitle to the payment of gratuity according to law.

The application of the Petitioner is allowed without costs subject to the above

limitation.

/./-/~' /'1"udge of the Court of Appeal