==== BLOCKS ==== 

t

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 454 / 2000 F D.C. Colombo No. 14005/ MR

Goonatilake Abeywickrema, No. 76, Wanatha Road,

Gangodawila, Nugegoda. Presently of No. 428/3, Old Kesbewa Road, Udahamulla, Nugegoda.

Plaintiff Vs.

Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka Limited,

110, Norris Canal Road, Colombo 10.

And Now Between

Goonatilake Abeywickrema, No. 76, Wanatha Road,

Gangodawila, Nugegoda. Presently of

Defendant

No. 428/3, Old Kesbewa Road, Udahamulla, Nugegoda.

Plaintiff-Appellant

Vs

Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka Limited,

110, Norris Canal Road, Colombo 10.

Defendant -Respondent

1If; II I I

II! t

f

~ !!t

I1

~ i i, tIIi i

~

f Il If l'

~ Ii Ii

J

BEFORE

COUNSEL

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

E.M.D. Upali Hemantha Boteju for the

Plaintiff Appellant

Prasanna Jayawardena PC with Anosha

Yasaratne for the Defendant Respondent

15.01.2013

29.01.2013 and 27.02.2013

27.08.2013

The Plaintiff Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant) has

instituted an action against the Defendant Respondent (hereinafter referred to as

the Respondent) in the District Court of Colombo seeking a judgment to recover

sum of monies as prayed for in prayer a, b, c and d of the plaint. The Respondent

has prayed for a dismissal of the Appellant's action and a judgment as prayed for

in prayer band c of the answer. The case proceeded to trial on 21 issues. After trial

the learned Additional District Judge has delivered a judgment in favour of the

Respondent. Being aggrieved by the said judgment dated 23.06.2000 the Appellant

has preferred the instant appeal to this court.

i l II

I Ii

If l'

, ) Ii II

3

According to the facts of the case, the Appellant had entered in to an

agreement with the Respondent on 15.10.1991 and in terms of the said agreement

the Appellant had agreed and undertaken to construct and complete official

quarters for managers at a site situated in Dankotuwa Distillery within 12 weeks

from the date of agreement. The Appellant has further stated that by March 1992,

he had constructed the building up to roof level and when he was about to

complete the roof the Respondent instructed him to stop work. Upon the said basis

the Appellant has claimed the full contract sum of Rs 536,772/- upon the first

cause of action, a sum of Rs 26,836/- as retention monies upon the second cause of

action and a sum ofRs 400,000/- as damages upon the third cause of action.

The Respondent has filed an answer denying the Appellant's said

cause of actions and stating that in terms of the said agreement the Appellant had

agreed to carry out the works specified therein, in accordance with the

specifications set out in the said agreement and to complete the said works and to

hand over the site to the Respondent on or before 13th of January 1992. However

the Appellant, in breach of the terms and conditions of the said Agreement has

failed to carry out and complete the works and to hand over the building to the

Respondent on or before the said date.

It was common ground that the Appellant did not complete the works

on or before the agreed date upon the said agreement. It was also common ground

that according to the said agreement (P 1) the said works to be completed on or

before 13th of January 1992.

The Appellant in an attempt to justify the breach of contract on the

part of the Appellant has stated that he received some information from the officers

1t;

4

of the Dankotuwa Distillery that certain officers of the Excise Department had

objected to the construction of the building in the Dankotuwa Distillary. In proof

of that the Appellant has produced certain documents marked P 3, P 4, P5 and P 6.

P 3 was a copy of a letter sent to the Production Manager by the Chief Engineer

dated 24.02.1992. The Appellant has not produced any other documentary proof

originated prior to the date of completion of the construction of the building

namely 13. 01. 1992. It is clear from the said evidence that P 3 was the first

document which has disclosed about the alleged objection to the construction of

the building at Dankotuwa Distillery.

Upon the said evidence it was clear that the Appellant has failed to

complete the work prior to the agreed date under the said agreement. Accordingly

the Appellant has failed to adduce any evidence to prove that he was compelled to

stop work during the contracted period.

In the said circumstances I am of the view that the Appellant has

failed to prove his case on a balance of probability. Hence I see no reason to

interfere with the judgement of the learned Additional District Judge dated

23.06.2000. Therefore I dismiss the appeal of the Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal