==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI

LANKA

Court of Appeal No: CALA 114/2005

District Court of Colombo No: 17021/L

Before: Eric Basnayake J

In the matter of an application

for leave to appeal

R.L. Nilgiriya & another

Defendant-Respondent-

Petitioners

vs

Gamini De Soysa & two others

Petitioners Respondents

AND

B.R.J. De Soysa and Five others

Plaintiff-Respondents-

Respondents

Counsel: Manohara De Silva P.c. with Bandara Thalagune for the Defendant-

Respondent-Petitioners

1

Harsha Soza P.e. with Anuruddha Darmaratne for the Plaintiffs-

Respondents.

Written submissions tendered: For the petitioners: 18.1.2011

For the Plaintiff-Respondents: 25.1.2006

Decided On: 9.9.2011

Eric Basnayake J

The defendant-respondent-petitioners (defendants) filed this leave to appeal

application inter alia to have the order dated 11.3.2005 of the learned Additional

District Judge of Colombo set aside.

This is a rei vindicatio action. The 1st to 6th plaintiffs filed this action in the District

Court of Colombo inter alia to have the 1st plaintiff declared entitled to 11th share

and the 2nd to 6th plaintiffs to another 11th share. After the filing of the answer

the case was fixed for trial for 1.7.2002. On the trial date the court was informed

of the death of the 1st plaintiff. Hence the case was fixed for 13.9.2002 for steps.

On 13.9.2002 steps were not taken and the court made order to take steps and

move.

2

On 21.1.2004 the 1st, 2nd and 3rd petitioners-respondents (petitioners) filed papers

in court to have them substituted in place of the 1st plaintiff (PSa) and moved that

the case be called on 6.2.2004. However the case was not called on 6.2.2004. On

10.2.2004 the court made order ex mero motu to abate the action. The reason for

this order is the plaintiff's failure to take necessary steps for a period exceeding

12 months (namely, from 13.9.2002 to 21.1.2004).

On 23.2.2004 a motion was filed for the petitioners to have this action continued.

The petitioners also filed a petition and an affidavit to have them substituted in

place of the deceased 1st plaintiff. In the motion it is stated that the petitioners

filed case No 36066/T and obtained probate. The defendants filed objections to

this application. The learned Judge after inquiry made order vacating the order of

abatement. The court also allowed the substitution. It is this order that the

defendants are seeking to have set aside.

The learned Judge had observed in his order that probate had been granted in

favour of the petitioners and was satisfied that the petitioners were prevented by

sufficient cause from continuing with the action and for this reason the order of

abatement was set aside.

The learned President's Counsel for the defendants submitted that the abatement

was done under section 402 of the CPC and the plaintiffs failed to take steps to

prosecute this action from 13.9.2002 till 8.1.2004.

3

Section 402 is as follows:-

402. If a period exceeding twelve months ... elapses subsequently to

the date of the last entry of an order or proceeding in the record

without the plaintiff taking any steps to prosecute the action where

any such step is necessary, the court may pass an order that the

action shall abate.

Learned Counsel submitted that the 2nd to 6th plaintiffs ought to have acted under

section 393 of the cpc. He submitted that the purpose of this action is to evict the

defendants from the premises on the basis that the defendants are trespassers

and any co-owner can file action against a trespasser (Wimala Kanthi Ranasinghe

vs. Amaradasa Weerasinghe and N. Angawatte CA No. 629/98 CA minutes of

27.7.2001 & The Mahakande Housing Co. Ltd. Vs. Duhilamomal (1981) 2 Sri L.R.

232). Therefore even if the 1st plaintiff died the other plaintiffs had the

opportunity of proceeding under section 393 of the Cpc.

Section 393 is as follows:-

If there be more plaintiffs ... than one and any of them dies, and if the

right to sue on the cause of action survives to the surviving plaintiff

or plaintiffs alone, ... the court shall, on application in the way of

summary procedure, make an order to the effect that the action do

proceed at the instance of the surviving plaintiff or plaintiffs ...

One of the reliefs sought in the present case is to have the 1st plaintiff declared

entitled to l/ih share of the subject matter. It is the 1st plaintiff who has to prove

what he claims and if it is proved successfully, this share would be granted to the

4

1st plaintiff. In the event of his death it would devolve on the heirs and not on the

surviving plaintiffs. Therefore it would be a necessary step in the prosecution of

this action to have the heirs appointed. Section 394 makes provision for the

petitioners as heirs to come to this case as a party. The section is as follows:-

394 (1): If there are more plaintiffs than one, and any of them dies,

and if the right to sue does not survive to the surviving plaintiff or

plaintiffs alone, but survives to him or them and the legal

representative of the deceased plaintiff jointly, the court may cause

the legal representative, if any, of the deceased plaintiff to be made a

party and shall thereupon cause an entry to that effect to be made

on the record and proceed with the action.

(2) Not reproduced.

Even if the cause of action survives to the remaining plaintiffs to proceed with the

action, an order of abatement could be done only after notice to the parties. The

consequences of an order that an action shall abate are so serious that the court

should never exercise the power ex mero motu, but only on application by the

defendant after due notice to the plaintiff (Fernando vs. Peiris 3 N.L.R. 77, Cave &

Co vs. Erskine 6 N.L.R. 338, Suppramaniam et al vs. Symons 18 N.L.R. 229). When

an action abates, no fresh action shall be brought on the same cause of action

(Section 403 of the CPC, Ponampalam vs. Canagasaby 2 N.L.R. 23, De Silva

vs.Jawaz 37 N.L.R. 165, Kamala vs. Andiris 41 N.L.R. 71). Wijewardene J held in

Sellamma Achie vs. Pelavasam 41 N.L.R. 186 that a court has no power to enter an

order of abatement under section 402 where the failure to prosecute the action

for twelve months after the last order was due to the death of plaintiff within that

period.

5

Section 403 of the CPC makes provision for the plaintiff or the person claiming to

be the legal representative of the deceased to apply for an order to set aside the

order of abatement. The section is as follows:-

403. When an action abates or is dismissed under this chapter, no fresh

action shall be brought on the same cause of action.

But the plaintiff or the person claiming to be the legal representative of a

deceased or insolvent party may, within such period of time as may seem

to the court under the circumstances of the case to be reasonable, apply

for an order to set aside the order of abatement or dismissal; and if it be

proved that he was prevented by any sufficient cause from continuing the

action the court shall set aside the abatement or dismissal upon such terms

as to costs or otherwise as it thinks fit.

After the death of the 1st plaintiff the petitioners had filed a testamentary case in

the District Court to obtain probate to administer the estate of the deceased 1st

plaintiff. Having obtained probate the petitioners moved court to have them

substituted in place of the deceased plaintiff. By that time there was no

application made by the defendants to abate the action. The court, without

considering the motion filed for the petitioners, hurried to abate the action. Thus

it is clear that at the time of abatement the petitioners had taken steps to

prosecute the action. According to the judgments pronounced the court could not

abate an action ex mero moto.

6

I am of the view that the learned Judge had correctly set aside the order of

abatement. Therefore this application is without merit and leave is refused with

costs.

Judge of the court of Appeal

7