==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

1 I 1

f IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 1350/2000 F D.C. Puttalam No. 6501L

Koswatta Muhandiramge Haringtan Thamel, Karungalacholai, Mundalama.

Plaintiff

Vs.

Koswatta Muhandiramge Alexandre Thamel, Karungalacholai Mundalama.

Defendant

AND

Koswatta Muhandiramge Alexandre Thamel, Karungalacholai Mundalama.

Defendant Petitioner

Koswatta Muhandiramge Haringtan Thamel, Karungalacholai, Mundalama.

Plaintiff Respondent

t r

f II

t l ! I

t II

t I f

I

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

And Now Between

Koswatta Muhandiramge Alexandre Thamel, Karungalacholai Mundalama.

Defendant Petitioner-Appellant

Vs

Koswatta Muhandiramge Haringtan Thamel, Karungalacholai, Mundalama.

Plaintiff Respondent-Respondent

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

LC.M. Azwer Defendant Petitioner Appellant.

Nevil Abeyrathne with Sisira Munasinghe for

the Plaintiff Respondent-Respondent

18.03.2013

05.09.2013

The present appeal has been preferred by the Defendant Petitioner-

Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant) from the order made by the

I

, t ! Ii

\ I

3

learned District Judge of Puttalam dated 05.12.2000. The facts of the case are

briefly as follows;

The Plaintiff Respondent-Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the

Respondent) instituted the said action against the Appellant seeking to recover the

possession of the land described in the schedule to the plaint on the basis that he

was the permit holder of the land described in the schedule to the plaint under a

land permit granted by the State. The Appellant has filed an answer denying the

averments contained in the plaint and praying for a dismissal of the Respondent's

action.

When the case was taken up for further hearing on 03.11.1997 the

Appellant was absent and the case had been fixed for an Ex Parte trial. Thereafter

the ex-parte trial had been held on the same date and an ex-parte decree had been

entered accordingly. Thereafter the Appellant had preferred an application under

section 86(1) of the Civil Procedure Code (CPC) seeking to have the said ex-parte

judgement and the decree vacated. The learned District Judge after inquiry had

dismissed the Appellant's said application by the said order dated 05.12.2000.

The Appellant's position at the inquiry in to purge default was that

according to his memory he was bitten by a spider in the month of September,

1997 and thereafter he was under medical treatments for 3 to 4 months. In support

of that the Appellant has produced a medical certificate issued by a native doctor.

According to the said medical certificate the Appellant had been under medical

treatment from 02nd of September 1997 to end of September, 1997.

4

It seems that said evidence has not covered the said date on which the

case was fixed for an Ex-Parte trial. In the circumstances I see no reason to

interfere with the order of the learned District Judge dated 05.12.2000. Therefore I

dismiss the appeal of the Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

IIIt f I

I 1 f ,

I I ! , , ! I I

f I

, {