==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

CA Application No.205/2012

Before: S.Sriskandarajah, J (P.CjA)

Deepali Wijesundera, J

Order On: 13.02.2013

In the matter of an application under

and in terms of the Constitution of the

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

Lanka and in particular under and in

terms of Article 105(3) of the

Constitution.

1. Geoffrey Alagaratnam

President's Counsel

No.7 Daisy Villa Avenue,

Colombo4.

And Six (06) others

Petitioners

Rishard Bathiudeen MP

No. C37 Stanmore Crescent

Colombo 7.

Applications to intervene in

CA Application No.205 of 2012.

2

Intervention Application

1) M.A.M. Rakeeb

President,

Kalmunai Lawyers Association.

2) M.I.R. Hathi

S.M. Road, Maradamunai

Intervenient Petitioners

The above Intervenient Petitioners are seeking to intervene in this Application

where 7 Petitioners have filed an action for contempt under and in terms of Article

105(3) of the constitution against the Respondents. The Intervenient Petitioners, in their

Application claim, that they are the incumbent President and the Secretary of the

Kalmunai Lawyers Association, which is a Branch Association recognized by the Bar

Association of Sri Lanka in terms of Article 4 of the Constitution of the Bar Association

of Sri Lanka. The Intervenient Petitioners are seeking to intervene in these proceedings

on the basis that they are interested in upholding the rule of law and safeguard the

independence of the judiciary, and they also have sought in their petition, that if the

Management Committee of the Bar Association of Sri Lanka, which has sought

intervention in this Application, it would cause prejudice to the entire proceedings.

The main purpose of these Petitioners to intervene in this Application is to

nullify the effect of any possible permission granted by this Court for the Management

Committee of the Bar Association to intervene in this Application and to make

submissions and, they have submitted that they should assist the Court to make a more

considered decision as compared to the so called Management Committee of the Bar

3

Association, and they have made a request that this Court should reject the Application

made by the Management Committee of the Bar Association of Sri Lanka.

The above Application is made on the basis that this Court should not allow the

intervention of the Bar Association of Sri Lanka and also that their concern is on the rule

of law and the independence of the judiciary.

Intervention in an Application for contempt proceedings are not permitted as the

contempt proceedings are between the Court and the person who has committed

contempt and, as these proceedings are of a criminal nature, and the proof of allegations

are beyond reasonable doubt, the intervention of a 3rd party is not permitted and it is

not warranted and, for these reasons this Court refuses the intervention of the

Petitioner.

Intervenient Application

The Bar Association of Sri Lanka

Intervenient Petitioners

In the said Application, the Intervenient Petitioner, the President of the Bar

Association, the Deputy President and the office bearers of the Bar Association have

made an application to intervene in this contempt proceedings. The said application

was on the basis that they are entitled to intervene in these proceedings to ensure the

independence, honour and the dignity of the judiciary and to maintain the rule of law.

They submit, that the Bar Association of Sri Lanka is the only professional association of

all the Attorneys at Law of this country, and the objects of the Bar Association is to

maintain the honour and independence of the judiciary of Sri Lanka, and also, for the

consideration of matters of importance relating to the rule of law and administration of

justice. As the Bar Association is the largest body of Attorneys-at-Law, it is obliged and,

4

in fact, is entitled to protect the dignity of judges and the independence of judiciary and,

therefore, the Bar Association claims that it is entitled to intervene in this Application

and their Application be permitted.

As I have observed in the above Application, that these proceedings are between

the Court and the Respondent, and the proceedings are of a criminal nature, and the

intervention of 3rct parties might cause prejudice to the right of a fair trial, and also will

prolong the trial, the Intervention Application filed by the Bar Association has the same

objective of the Petitioners who have initiated these proceedings and, therefore,

permitting the Bar Association to intervene in this Application will not have any benefit

in arriving at a fair decision in this case and, therefore, this Court rejects the Application

for intervention, the application filed by the Executive Members of the Bar Association

of Sri Lanka to intervene in this case is rejected.

Intervention Application

Munasinghe Arachchige Sangadasa Perera

Premachandra Siriwardena

Intervenient Petitioners

The Petitioners are retired public servants, and they claim to be Members of (Sri

Helaya Sanvidanaya) and they submit that they are deeply concerned of the

independence of the judiciary and the rule of law in this country, and they also claim

that the judges and lawyers who observe and respect professional ethics and good

conduct in keeping with the principles that justice should not only be done, but also

seem to be done, and the Petitioners claim that their Application for intervention is to

maintain the above said principles, and as this contempt matter has received wide

publicity, and the public are greatly concerned about the matter, in these circumstances

the Petitioners in their capacity as citizens are greatly interested in the matter as of

5

public interest and, as such, they are making this application for intervention in the

interests of the public.

As I have observed in the above Application for intervention that is to permit 3rd

parties to intervene in these proceedings which are of a criminal nature, will cause

prejudice to the Respondent, and to a fair trial, and for the reasons stated in the above

applications, I refuse the Intervenient Application of these Intervenient Petitioners.

Intervention Application

Haniffa N alees

Mohamed Thawlathulla,

the President and

The General Manager

of AI AzarFisheries Co-operative

Society, Mannar.

Intervenient Petitioners

These Intervenient Petitioners, in their petition stated that they form an

important group of the general public of Mannar. The interest of the intervenient -

Petitioners is to ensure the proper administration of justice and the Rule of Law. It is the

position of the intervenient- Petitioners that the matters concerned affects the public at

large and is of grave public importance. It was held in Abayadeera and 162 others v Dr.

Stanley Wiijesundera, vice Chancellor University of Colombo and Another [1983] 2 Sri L R

267: when considering an intervention application in a writ application the Court held:

The addition of the 45 students of the University of Colombo who have not joined the

petitioner as parties to the application was not necessary as the relief sought for will not

affect them adversely. In a contempt proceedings the 3rd Parties are not affected and

6

there assistance is not necessary as the function of the Court is to see whether the

Respondent has committed any act that would constitute a contempt of court.

For the reasons stated above, I refuse the intervenient Application of these

Petitioners as well.

President of the Court of Appeal

Deepali Wijesundera, J

I agree,

Judge of the Court of Appeal