==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

.~

1 I I ! I

J I , I

~

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA 79/2007

Welage Kaluwahumpurage Gunadasa

Accused-Appellant

Vs The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Complainant Respondent

HC Ratnapura 16112003

Before

Counsel

Argued on Decided on

Sisira J de Abrew J & PWDC Jayathilake J

Upalie Gunaratne President's Counsel for the appellant Navarathne Bandara DSG for the Respondent

26.8.2013 and 27.8.2013 21.10.2013

Sisira J de Abrew J.

The accused appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of a woman

named Hathdurukande Chandrawathi and was sentenced to death. He was also

convicted of the attempted murder of his own son and was sentenced to a term of

ten (10) years rigorous imprisonment (Rr). Being aggrieved by the said convictions

and the sentences he has appealed to this court. Facts of this case may be briefly

summarized as follows.

The accused appellant who was a soldier of the Sri Lanka Air Force was

having a love affair with the deceased woman Chandrawathi and as a result of this

love affair Chandrawathi produced a child (Amila Pradeep). The accused

1 i j

J 1 f ! I

I 1

2

appellant, in his evidence, admitted that Amila Pradeep was his child. The accused

appellant refused to marry Chandrawathi and at the time of the incident, the

accused appellant was paying Rs.1 000/- as maintenance to his child who was with

Chandrawathi. This amount has been ordered by the Magistrate's Court.

On the day of the incident around 9.00 p.m. when Chandrawathi was breast

feeding the child in the bed in one of the rooms in the house, her mother who was

in the room heard somebody saying not to move. When she looked back she saw

the accused appellant at the entrance to the room armed with a gun. Her daughter

Chandrawathi, at this stage, shouted saying "mother". Then she heard firing of a

gun. Altogether she heard three shots being fired. Chandrawathi and the child

sustained gunshot injuries as a result of this firing. Both were admitted to the

hospital. But Chandrawathi succumbed to her injuries. The doctor who conducted

the Post Mortem Examination (PME) says that Chandrawathi had sustained three

entry wounds and three exit wounds. Amila Pradeep (the child) too sustained a

gunshot injury.

Siriyawathi who is one of the sisters of Chandrawathi says that on the day of

the incident around 9.00 p.m. when she was in the kitchen she heard her sister

shouting. Then she heard a firing of a gun. When she came to the room, she saw

the accused appellant running away carrying a gun and the sister and her son with

bleeding injuries. The gun which was issued to the accused appellant by the Air

Force was subsequently produced at the police station by Vasantha Ratnayake who

is an officer attached to the Air Force camp in which the accused appellant was

working. The investigating officer picked up two empty cartridges at the scene of

offence. Government Analyst confirms that two empty cartridges had been fired

from the gun issued to the accused appellant.

The accused appellant, in his evidence, took up the defence of alibi. He

stated that on 13.6.1997 he was in the camp as he had reported sick. Vasantha

\ f ! !tiI

~l

3

Ratnayake who was in charge of the Air Force camp says that a soldier who has

reported sick is expected to be in the camp. But it is possible for such a soldier to

leave the camp without permission through the jungle area and come back to the

camp. Although the accused appellant says that he was in the Air Force camp at

the time of the incident, the two empty cartridges found at the scene of offence had

been fired from the gun issued to him. Thus this evidence completely destroys his

defence of alibi. In my view his evidence does not create a reasonable doubt in the

prosecution case. Therefore I hold that the learned trial judge was right when he

rejected the evidence of the accused appellant.

When the case was taken up for trial Indika Rupasinghe Attorney-at-Law

(A-a-L) moved for a date on the ground that he had not received instructions from

MrJustin A-a-L who had been retained to appear for the accused. He further stated

that he had not received instructions from the accused. But the learned trial Judge

refused this application and proceeded with the trial. Learned Presiedent's Counsel

(PC) who appeared for the accused appellant contended that the accused appellant

was denied of a fair trial as the said application was refused by the learned trial

Judge. I now advert to this contention. Although the application by Indika

Rupasinghe A-a-L for a postponement was refused by the learned trial Judge, he

continued to appear for the accused and in fact he appeared from the beginning to

the end. The said application was refused on 20.9.2004 but Indika Rupasinghe

cross examined the witness (the doctor) on the same day. Thereafter the trial was

put off. If Mr. Rupasinghe had not received instructions from Mr. Justin or the

accused appellant, how did he cross examine the witness on the ,same day. When I

consider all these matters, I reject the above contention as there is no merit in it.

Learned PC drawing our attention to page 27 of the brief contended that the

learned trial Judge had not read both charges in the indictment to the accused

appellant. He submitted that only one charge had been read to the accused

f I!

tI

I

~! I 4

appellant. The language used by the learned trial Judge at page 27 of the brief is as

follows. "Charge from the indictment is read over to the accused. The accused

pleads not guilty to the charge." According to this language only one charge has

been read to the accused. But can it be contended that when the trial Judge read out

the indictment to the accused through the Officiating Registrar, he only read one

charge and did not read the other charge. I think not. If the word 'charges' was

used instead of the word 'charge' there would not have been any problem. In my

view this appears to be a typographical error. For the above reasons, I am unable to

agree with the above submission.

After conclusion of the evidence of lay witnesses, the learned trial Judge

remanded the accused. Learned PC contended that the accused was denied of a fair

trial as he could not communicate with his lawyer. I note the date of

commencement of the trial. It was on 20.9.2004. The order remanding the accused

was made on 12.10.2005. If his lawyer wanted to have more communication with

the accused, it was possible for him to do it in the prison. Further he could have

done it in the court premises itself with the permission of trial Judge.

Learned PC contended that the learned trial Judge had failed to comply with

Section 203 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CPC) as he had not delivered the

judgment within ten days of the conclusion of the trial. The fact that the learned

trial Judge has not delivered the judgment within ten days of the conclusion of the

trial is correct. But should the Court of Appeal set aside the conviction on this

ground alone? I would like to consider a judicial decision on this matter. In Anura

Shantha Silva Vs Attorney General [1999] 1 SLR 299 His Lordship Justice De

Silva held: "The provisions of Section 203 of the Code are directory and not

mandatory. This is a procedural obligation that has been imposed upon Court and

its non compliance would not affect the individual's rights unless such non

compliance occasions a failure of justice." I have earlier held that the evidence of

I

5

the accused appellant was not capable of creating a reasonable doubt in the

prosecution case. When I consider the facts of this case, I am of the opinion that

non compliance of Section 203 of the CPC has not occasioned a failure of justice. I

therefore reject the above contention of learned PC. I would like to state here that

the judges presiding in the Criminal Courts must always comply with the

procedure laid down in the CPC. Failure on the part of the trial Judge to deliver the

judgment within the time period stipulated in Section 203 of the CPC will lead to

erosion of public confidence in the judicial system and to laws delay.

Learned PC contended that the learned trial Judge had not explained to the

accused appellant of his right to be tried by a jury or a judge. In Attorney General

Vs Aponso [2008] BLR page 145 His Lordship Justice JAN De Silva held thus:

"As long as it is in the statute book that the accused can elect to be tried by a jury

the trial judge has an obligation not only to inquire from him whether he is to be

tried by a jury, judge must also inform that the accused has a legal right to that

effect. Non observation of this procedure is an illegality and not a mere

irregularity." Page 26 of the brief indicates that the accused appellant, on 7.5.2004,

has elected a non jury trial. Thus it appears that the accused appellant has elected a

non jury trial after the learned trial Judge explained the rights of the accused

regarding jury option. For the above reasons, I reject the contention of learned PC.

Learned trial Judge at page 257 of the brief stated that the evidence of the

accused appellant had not destroyed the prosecution case. Learned PC harping on

this observation contended that the learned trial Judge had placed a burden on the

accused appellant to prove the defence of alibi. When an accused person raises a

defence of alibi there is no burden on him to prove it. This view is supported by the

following judicial decisions. In Banda Vs Attorney General [1999] 3 SLR 168 His

Lordship Justice Jaysuriya held: "there is no burden whatsoever on an accused who

puts forward a plea of alibi and the burden is always on the prosecution to establish

6

beyond reasonable doubt that the accused was not elsewhere but present at the

time of the commission of offence." The same principle was laid down in King Vs

Marshal 51 NLR 157 and King V s Fernando 48 NLR 251.

In Punchi Banda Vs The State 76 NLR 293 His Lordship Justice GPA de

Silva observed "when an alibi is pleaded in defence, the burden of proof on the

accused is not similar to that in a case where the accused raises a mitigatory or

exculpatory plea. Where the defence is that of an alibi, the accused has no burden

as such of establishing any fact to any degree of probability." I would like to lay

down the following guide lines regarding the defence of alibi.

In a criminal trial,

1. If the plea of alibi raised by the accused is accepted the accused should be

acquitted.

2. If the plea of alibi raises a reasonable doubt in the prosecution case, the

accused must be acquitted.

3. When an accused raises a plea of alibi, there is no burden on the accused to

prove it.

The question that must be decided is whether the learned trial Judge placed a

burden when he said that the evidence of the accused had not destroyed the

prosecution case. What happens if the evidence of the accused had destroyed the

prosecution case? The learned trial Judge must then say it in order to acquit the

accused. In the same way if the evidence of the accused had not destroyed the

prosecution case, it is fair for the learned trial Judge to make such observation.

This does not mean that he had placed a burden on the accused . .I have earlier held

that the evidence of the accused appellant was not capable of creating a reasonable

doubt in the prosecution case. When I consider all these matters, I hold that there is

no merit in the contention advanced by learned PC.

7

Learned PC next contended that the learned trial Judge had not adequately

considered the defence of alibi. But when I consider pages 255 and 256 of the

brief, I hold the view that the learned trial Judge had adequately considered the

defence of alibi. I therefore reject the said contention.

Learned PC contended that it was not possible for the accused to come to

Balangoda from Ampara as he was sick in quarters (SIQ). But Vasntha Ratnayake,

the Air Force Officer says that it was possible for soldiers in the camp to go out

through jungle although they were officially prohibited from leaving the camp.

When I consider all these matters, I am unable to accept the above contention of

learned PC. I therefore reject it.

Podinona says that she heard the sound of firing when the deceased

woman was lying in bed. The doctor who conducted the PME says that the

deceased woman had received gunshot injuries while she was lying in bed. Thus

her evidence has been corroborated by the medical evidence. Defence Counsel has

failed to mark any vital contradictions with her statement made to the police.

Therefore her evidence satisfies the test of consistency. Siriyawathi, the daughter

of Podinona says that she saw the accused appellant running away from the scene

carrying a gun when she came towards the deceased woman's room on hearing the

sound of firing. Thus Podinona's evidence was corroborated by Siriyawathi's

evidence.

I have gone through the evidence led at the trial. I am of the opinion that

prosecution has proved its case beyond reasonable doubt.

8

F or the above reasons I affirm the conviction and the sentence and dismiss

this appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

PWDC J ayatilake J

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

I

[ If

JI;