==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Ratnayake liyanarachchilage Piyaratne

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

C.A 203/2007

H.C. Ratnapura 106/2004

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

P.R. Walgama J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDENT

Indika Mallawaratchy for Accused-Appellant

Harippriya Jayasundara D.S.G. for Complainant-Respondent

01.10.2014

20.01.2015

1

i

\ j l

\

i r i I f I

1

2

GOONERATNE J.

This was a murder case. Incident occurred on or about 09.03.1998.

The Appellant was convicted on 28.06.2007. Deceased and the Appellant were

security guards at a place described as 'Silver Ray' building located near the

Ratnapura-Colombo main road. This is a case of circumstantial evidence and

the murder took place at the above place called 'Silver Ray building.

Prosecution witness Kularatne testified that he lives about 75 meters away

from the said building and at about 3.15 a.m he woke up due to distress cries

of a person who shouted 'Budu Ammo Mava Beraganne'. Witness opened the

door and was able to identify the Appellant who told him that three robbers

entered the building and that two robbers who entered through the main gate

gave chase. A little while later (5/10 minutes) both went to the scene of the

crime. Witness requested the Appellant to go inside and call the other security

guard on duty. Having said so to the Appellant, he came out and informed

witness Kularatne that the other person was lying fallen on the ground.

Witness testified that he saw the deceased lying inside the security hut on a

pool of blood.

3

The above witness's version give a description of what took place on

the night of the incident. It would be convenient for this court to refer to the

other items of evidence at least the gist of it, to ascertain whether all items of

evidence could be linked together in such a way to show the guilt of the

Appellant, or if it cannot be properly linked the Appellant need to be

acquitted? Prema Ranjani the girl friend of the deceased identified two gold

rings and a gold chain at the non-summary inquiry. Jewellery which had been

worn by the deceased on the day of the incident (productions destroyed in a

fire whilst in court custody).

Then another security guard attached to the Seylan Bank (within the

premises) also gave evidence but did not hear a commotion until in the

morning he heard the voices of people. Medical evidence reveal that the

injuries would have been caused by a blunt heavy weapon, like and iron rod.

Fracture to the skull and the brain was contused. More than one blow had

been dealt.

Two police witnesses testified and Chief Inspector Basildus gives

details of the area, a hotel in close proximity to the scene of the crime, open

for 24 hours. Blood stains observed inside the security hut and found part of a

gold chain. Place fully lit with high powered bulbs. No signs of damage, fight

4

or robbery. (witness not subject to cross-examination) As a consequence of

the statement made to the police, by the Appellant a recovery of 2 gold rings

from the Appellant's house, a chain pawned to a Rural Bank, and a nickel club

in a swamp closer to the scene of the crime was recovered by the police.

All recovered items were identified at the non-summary inquiry.

(jewellery). Prosecution makes a point that the defence did not challenge the

evidence pertaining to recovery. Further Chief Inspector Basildus was also not

cross-examined. Manger Rural Bank also gave evidence regarding pawning of

jewellery by the Accused-Appellant (receipt produced P3). The grounds of

appeal suggested by learned counsel for the defence are:

Grounds of appeal-

1. Learned trial Judge has erred in law on the principles relating to section 27

recovery of a nickel rod.

2. Items of circumstantial evidence are inadequate

3. The learned trial Judge has failed to evaluate the items of circumstantial

evidence.

4. Prosecution has not excluded the possibility of a third party committing the

crime.

I ! i t ,

, I t I I ,

t

e

5

What would be important for the case in hand is to ascertain,

whether the items of circumstantial evidence, when linked, would

demonstrate the guilt or whether the link collapse, to demonstrate the

innocence of the Accused-Appellant. I would, having studied the case of both

parties list the following items of evidence and the undisputed

facts/uncontradicted evidence.

(a) The deceased and the Accused were security Guards at a place called 'Silver

Ray' building. It cannot be denied that both were on duty on the night in

question.

(b) Police evidence which are uncontradicted shows that the area was well lit

with powerful bulbs.

(c) A night cafe/restaurant adjacent to the above 'Silver Ray' building.

(d) Witness Kularatne heard a distress call as stated above in the early hours of

the morning and woke up. He saw and identified the Accused. He was

informed by the Accused-Appellant that three robbers entered the building

and one gave chase.

(e) Both the Accused-Appellant and witness after a while proceeded to the

scene of the crime.

(f) Witness Kularatne testified that he saw the deceased in a pool of blood in

the security hut. Distance according to the police, between the security hut

and the gate to the building was 18 feet.

6

(g) Blood stains observed and found in and around the security hut. No blood

stains found or detected in any other place within the premises. No other

signs of disturbance (police evidence) in and around the scene of the crime.

(h) Recoveries made as a result of the Section 27 statement (P2) by the police

(1) recovery of a gold chain and two gold rings.

(2) recovery of a nickel rod in a swamp closer to the scene of the crime.

(i) Fiancee of the deceased identified the gold chain and the two gold rings,

worn by the deceased on the day in question

(j) The chain in question was pawned to a Rural Bank 10 days after the

incident and the corresponding receipt recovered. Manager of Rural Bank

testified and the name on the receipt tally with the name of Appellant.

Police recovered the chain from the pawning centre.

I observe that the Accused-Appellant had not challenged certain vital

Items of evidence. i.e recovery of above items from the possession of the

Accused and from the Rural Bank. The Appellant in his dock statement admits

having taken over from the deceased, at the hospital, the chain and two rings.

This court observe that in the context of this case the normal acceptable

conduct of a lay person would have been to admit the patient to hospital and

either hand over the belongings to persons in authority or to the next of kin

I-

7

(soon or within a very reasonable time). Instead the Accused-Appellant either

knowingly or unknowingly or willingly took charge of valuable items belonging

to the deceased. Only after the Accused-Appellant was arrested (after a

period of time from the date of murder) that the above items surfaced. At this

point I state the probability and the improbability of Accused conduct would

have to be projected and any court cannot be faulted for drawing certain

adverse inferences from above, which points in the direction of his guilt. There

is no plausible explanation placed by the Appellant before the trial court to

enable the trial Judge to give his mind towards the innocence of the Appellant.

I agree with the learned Deputy Solicitor General's view that the

recovery under Section 27 of the Evidence Ordinance of the nickel rod from a

swamp and closer to the scene of the crime, which evidence remains

unchallenged and the provisions contained in Section 27 are not violated. i.e

Accused had the knowledge and whereabouts of the fact discovered.

Prosecution no doubt was handicapped due to loss of productions as a result

of a fire. That would not however, harm the prosecution case in view of above

described items of evidence. It lead us to the conclusion that the Accused-

Appellant himself hid the nickel rod. In Ariyasinghe Vs. A.G 2004 (2) SLR 357 at

386, the three ways on which an Accused could gain knowledge would be

8

(1) Accused himself hid

(2) Accused saw another person concealing the items

(3) A person who had seen another person concealing the items in certain

place told the Accused.

In the context and circumstances of the case in hand (1) above

matters. Medical evidence reveal that the head injuries caused to the

deceased could have been caused by a heavy blunt weapon. No weapon was

available and I agree that as a result the Doctor could not be shown the nickel

rod. Defence did not challenge the medical evidence. In fact the Accused party

seems to have played a passive role at the trial. Injuries are consistent having

being caused by an iron rod. When vital material points in a case remains

unchallenged, it would lead to an inference of admission of fact. I had the

benefit of perusing the judgment in CA 173/2005; H.C. Kegalle 1576/2001

dated on 16.3.1009. In this judgment reference is made to the following case

law.

Sarwan Singh Vs. State of Punjab 2002 AIR Supreme Court (iii) 3652 at 3655

Indian Supreme Court held:

"It is rule of essential justice that whenever the opponent has declined to avail himself

of the opportunity to put his case in cross examination it must follow that the evidence

tendered on that issue ought to be accepted"

9

Himachal Pradesh Vs. Thakur Dass (1983) 2 Cri. L.1. 1694 at 1701 V.D. Misra CJ

held:

"Whenever a statement of fact made by a witness is not challenged in cross examination it

has to be concluded that the fact in question is not disputed.

Absence of cross examination of prosecution witness of certain facts leads to the inference

of admission of that fact." Vide Motilal Vs. State of Madhaya Pradesh (1990) Cri. L.J NOC

125 MP.

On the question of non-production of the weapon, I am guided by

the principles laid down by Jayasooriya J. in Sudu Banda Vs. A.G 1998 (3) SLR at

pg.378

However, in proviso 2 to section 60 of the Evidence Ordinance he has made provision for

the adduction of real evidence subject to a condition. Section 60 proviso 2 sets out thus:

"Provided also that if oral evidence refers to the existence or condition of any material thing

other than a document, the court may, if it thinks fit, require the production of such

material thing for its inspection. "Likewise, the court could act in this respect again in the

exercise of its power enshrined in section 165 of the Evidence Ordinance". Thus, there is a

definite change in the law as far as the Evidence Ordinance is concerned when one

compares it with the English law. Even in England there are a series of decisions which have

taken the view that the non-production of the material object is not necessarily fatal to a

conviction. Vide the following cursus curiae - Hichin v. Ahquirt Brothers. Lucus v. William

and Sons, Rex v Francis at 132 for the observations of Lord Coleridge, it appears that

10

Stephen has followed this line of reasoning manifested in these English cases that I have

adverted to. In the circumstances, the contention that as the gun was listed as a production

in the indictment, its non-production at the trial is fatal to the conviction, is an untenable

proposition certainly as far as the law of Sri Lanka is concerned.

In this Judgment, I do not wish to repeatedly refer to the undisputed items

of evidence. However my attention has been drawn to the presumptions

contained in Section 114 of the Evidence Ordinance. As observed the defence

did not attempt to dispute or offer an explanation for the continued

possession of jewellery belonging to the deceased. Nor has the Accused

disputed the pawned items of jewellery. A Judge is free to exercise his power

of inference and either draw the presumption or call for proof of fact (Section

4(1). The main Section 114 dealing with presumptions entitles court to

presume (word used is 'may') of an existence of fact which is likely to have

happened due to common course of natural events, human conduct and public

and private business. The ordinance connect 8 illustrations to the main Section

114, which are not exhaustive and other similar presumptions can be drawn.

To this I would add, a recent possession of stolen goods the nature of the

property, the facility with which it would pass from hand to hand. If and when

the presumption is drawn the Accused party should be called upon to explain

f ! f

I I !

e

11

his possession (section 114 a). The Accused is requested to give a reasonably

true explanation which is consistent with his innocence, vide King Vs.

Jayasena 48 NLR 241; Banda Vs. Andre Appu 25 NLR 218: 5 CWR 236; 7 NLR

327. I note that there was no reasonable explanation forthcoming from the

Accused party. The dock statement is devoid of a reasonable explanation as to

how, he continued to possess until arrest. This court note that the deceased's

girl friend in her evidence described the items of jewellery worn and identified

same.

I will not include in this judgment all and every aspect pertaining to

presumptions since this is not an exercise on jurisprudence, but refer to a

Judgment of the Amaratunge J. in the case of Ariyasinghe Vs. A.G (2004) 2SLR

357 at 398-399 to demonstrate that such a presumption is not restricted in its

application.

Thus it is quite clear from the cases I have referred to above, that the validity of any

inference as to the existence of any facts, drawn from the proved facts, depends on the

facts of the particular case. The broad general prinCiple, couched in broad language giving a

wide discretion to a trier of fact to be used, having regard to the common course of natural

events, human conduct and public and private business in their relation to the facts of a

particular case, cannot be curtailed of restricted by reference to an illustration provided to

illustrate the application of the general principle laid down in section 114 of the Evidence

Ordinance.

12

In Cassim v Oaya Mannar (supra) Wijeyawardene, J. (as he then was) cited with approval the

following passage from Taylor on Evidence which shows that the application of the general

principle contained in section 114 and the presumption to be drawn thereunder is not

confined to any particular category of offences.

"The presumption is not confined to cases of theft but applies to all crime even the most

penal. Thus on indictment for arson proof that property which was in the house at the time

it was burnt, was soon afterwords found in the possession of the prisoner has been held to

raise a probable presumption that he was present and concerned in offence. A like

inference has been raised in the case 0 f murder accompanied by robbery, in the case of

burglary and in the case of possession of a quantity of counterfeit money." (12th Ed - para

142 emphasis added)

Section 114 of Evidence Ordinance is a reproduction of section 114 of the Indian Evidence

Act. drafted by James Fitzjames Stephen, Q.c. In moving the draft Act before the Legislative

Council on 5th March 1872, he had stated that he had put into writing what he had to say on

the subject dealt with in the Act and that he proposed to publish what he had written by

way of a commentary upon or introduction to, the Act itself. His notes have been

subsequently published under the title "An introduction to the Indian Evidence Act. The

Principles of Judicial Evidence." In this work referring to section 114 he has stated as

follows. "It declares, in section 114, that the Court may in all cases whatever draw from the

facts before it whatever inference it thinks just." (2nd impression 1904, page 181, emphasis

added)

The words 'may in all cases whatever draw' in the above quotation indicate that Stephen

intended to make section 114 applicable, when it is to be invoked in criminal cases, to all

offences without limiting it to any category of offences. With the words used in section 114

Stephen has effectively given expression to his intention.

13

Thus the categories of offences in respect of which a presumption under section 114 may

be drawn are not restricted or closed. The Courts are left with an unfettered discretion in all

cases to presume, if so advised, the existence of any fact 'which it thinks likely to have

happened, regard being had to the common course of natural events, human conduct and

public and private business in their relation to the facts of the particular case'.

We therefore hold that on the proved facts of this case, it was open to the

learned trial Judge to draw, in his discretion, any presumption of act, having

due regard to the particular facts of this case.

No attempt was made to rebut the presumption. In any event when

somewhat of a passive role is played by the Accused party without probing and

examining on material points, it would weaken the defence case and

substantiate and advance the prosecution case.

The entire case is based on circumstantial evidence and there is a

value that could be attached to same. It would be in order to refer to a

Judgment of former Chief Justice Shirani Bandaranayake in Sajeewa alias

Ukkuwa and others Vs. A. G 2004 (2) SLR 263 at page 278-279.

"E.R.S.R. Coomaraswamy (The law of Evidence, Vol. 1 pg. 18) in considering the value and

advantages and demerits of circumstantial evidence has stated that the use of

circumstantial evidence is criticized on the ground that it is not reliable evidence, however,

he is of the view that,

14

"But it would be going too far to say that it is never safe to trust circumstantial evidence

in the entire absence of direct, for there are many crimes which are committed under

circumstances which preclude the possibility of direct evidence being given, but which

yet allow of a perfectly safe inference being drawn from surrounding circumstances. The

risk of perjuring is minimized, since circumstantial evidence, unlike direct evidence, does

not depend on the veracity of witnesses. It is less capable of fabrication."

It is also to be borne in mind that the English decisions have evolved a set of principles

and rules of caution which have been followed in Sri Lankan cases. Consideration of

circumstantial evidence has been vividly described by Pollock CB. in R v Exall (1) cited in

Kign v. Gunaratne (2) in the following words.

It has been said that circumstantial evidence is to be considered as a chain, and each

piece as a link in the chain, but that is not so, for then of anyone link breaks, the chain

would fall. It is more like the case of a rope comprised of several chords. One strand of

the rope might be insufficient to sustain the weight, but three strands together may be

quite of sufficient strength. Thus it may be in circumstantial evidence there may be a

combination of circumstances, no one of which would raise a reasonable conviction or

more than a mere suspicion; but the three taken together may create a conclusion of

guilt with as much certainty as human affairs can require or admit."

It was stressed by learned counsel for Accused-Appellant that the

evidence placed before the trial court is inadequate to support a conviction. In

view of the conclusion arrived by me I am not in agreement with such a view.

In a case of circumstantial evidence the all important link from the beginning

to the end has to be carefully viewed and analysed. It need not depend on a

~e

15

veracity of witnesses and by its very nature this type of evidence is less

capable of falsehood. The case law stated just above fortify evidence of this

nature. I have nothing more to add. The next question raised by learned

counsel, of judicial evaluation, is no doubt a matter to be considered. Learned

trial Judge refer to the evidence of prosecution witnesses and express his

views on the dock statement of the Accused-Appellant and reject same to be

false. The Judgment I observe is not totally devoid of reasoning. Failure of the

Accused to challenge material points in cross examination support the findings

reached by the learned High court Judge. Further the possibility of a third

party getting involved is very much improbable. If at all the evidence on either

side strongly suggest only three persons to be on guard duty, in a secured

building where there is evidence of a front gate at the entrance of the building,

and the Seylan Bank and the other establishment, being guarded by

Moradeniya, (Bank) Accused and deceased in charge of 'Silver Ray' building.

Both establishments situated in one premises. The material placed before the

trial court does not suggest the presence of a 3

rd party. In fact the so called

robbers who were supposed to have entered the premises in the manner

suggested to have entered the premises and in the manner suggested by the

Accused party were never apprehended nor did the Accused-Appellant though

t f I I I ! I I I I I ! ,

16

it fit to make a distress call to the persons inside the night restaurant situated

adjacent to the building in question? Instead he ran to the house of witness

Kularatne along the direction of the Pelmadulla Road, 75 meters away from

the scene of the crime. The improbability of the Accused's version which

suggest falsehood fortify the prosecution case. In these circumstance the

prosecuting State Counsel cannot be called upon to search for a 3rd party and

exclude such possibility, from the available facts.

I have considered in this Judgment the principles relating to Section

27 statement recovery of a nickel rod. Section itself embody only the

knowledge of the existence and whereabouts of the facts discovered. This is an

item of evidence connecting the link required to establish circumstantial

evidence. What the trial Judge seeks to explain at folio 129 of the record is

only the fact that list of productions include the pole used for the commission

of offence. At a glance one could get misled that the production of the nickel

rod goes beyond knowledge contemplated under Section 27. It cannot be so. It

is arguable that the trial Judge has erred to this extent. As stated above all

other items of evidence support the conviction. (a - j).

I I

f ! I

f I t I )

r

17

In all the above facts and circumstances we are not inclined to

interfere with the Judgment of the learned High Court Judge. We affirm the

conviction and sentence. Appeal dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

61Y~~

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.R. Walgama J.

I agree.

.p/~, ~ay4 JUDGE OF THE!DURt OF APPEAL ~

I I I I I !