==== BLOCKS ==== 

t I

In the Court of Appeal of the Democratic Socialist

Republic of Sri Lanka

CA (PHC) APN: 94/2013 Case No: H.C (ARB) 63/2013 Arbitration No. SLNAC/35-06-2012

In the matter of an application for Revision under and in terms of Article 138 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

China Harbour Engineering Company Limited No.09 Chunxiu Road, Dongzhimenwai, Beijing, 100027, China

Having their local office 32nd Floor, East Tower, World Trade Centre,

Echelon Square, Colombo 1

-Vs-

Road Development Authority Sethsiripaya, Battaramulla, Sri Lanka

RESPONDENT

CLAIMANT

China Harbour Engineering Company Limited No.09 Chunxiu Road, Dongzhimenwai, Beijing, 100027, China

Having their local office at, 32nd Floor, East Tower, World Trade Centre, Echelon Square, Colombo - 01

CLAIMANT -PETITIONER

Page 1 of 5

! / I ./ / ./ / I f

.' Road Development Authority Sethsiripaya, Battaramulla, Sri Lanka

RESPONDENT -RESPONDENT

D.J.DS. Balapatabendi (Hon. Arbitrator) No.l73/14C, Mihindu Mawatha, Dehiwela

RESPONDENT

AND NOW BETWEEN

Road Development Authority

Sethsiripaya, Battaramulla, Sri Lanka

RESPONDENT -RESPONDENT -PETITIONER

-Vs-

China Harbour Engineering Company Limited No. Chunxiu Road, Dongzhimenwai, Beijing, 100027, China

Having their local office at, 32nd Floor, East Tower, World Trade Centre, Echelon Square, Colombo - 01

CLAIMANT -PETITIONER -RESPONDENT

D.J.D.5. Balapatabendi (Hon. Arbitrator) No.l73/14C, Mihindu Mawatha, Dehiwela

RESPONDENT -RESPONDENT

Before: A W A Salam, J and Sunil Rajapaksha, J Counsel:Shavindra Fernando DSG with Nerin Pulle SSC and Chaya Sri Nammuni for the Respondent-Respondent-Petitioner and Dr. Asanga Gunawardhana with Dilshan

Page 2 of 5

/

! ! / /

i ./ ! // II II / / !

/;

!

~ayasuriya and Hiran Jayasuriya for the Claimant-Petitioner-

Respondent. Decision on the application for leave to appeal entered on: 05.12.2013

A W A Salam, J

The Respondent -Respondent - Petitioner (hereinafter referred

to as the "petitioner") flIed application invoking the

revisionary jurisdiction of this Court, seeking an order

revising and setting aside the order of the learned judge dated

19 June 2013. The reliefs sought arose mainly on the order of

the High Court dismissing certain preliminary objections

raised as to the maintainability of the action flIed by the

claimant-petitioner-respondent (hereinafter referred to in the

~ rest of this judgment for purposes of' convenience as the

"claimant") in the High Court.

Mter the application for revision was supported and the

claimant heard in opposition this court by judgement dated

14 November 2013 held inter alia that the Petitioner cannot

be permitted to invoke the revisionary jurisdiction of this

court, when in fact, Section 37 of the Arbitration Act excludes

such a right to make a revision application. As a result, the

application flIed in revision by the petitioner was refused be

entertained.

Against such refusal, petitioner has sought the leave of this

court to appeal to the Supreme Court in terms of Article 128

Page 3 of 5

\ i I I

I

; / '

(~) of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of

Sri Lanka read with the Supreme Court Rules of 1990.

The learned Deputy Solicitor General has submitted that the

question whether revisionary jurisdiction of this court lies

where there has been a statutory ouster, as it has occurred in

this case, is a matter yet to be settled by the Supreme Court

and as such the issue still remains unsettled. Having

considered the submissions made by the petitioner, we are of

the opinion that leave should be granted to appeal to the

Supreme Court on the following issues.

1. Is the revisionary jurisdiction under Article 138 of the

Constitution conferred on the Court of Appeal ousted by

Section 37(2) of the Arbitration Act No 11 of 1995 only

when the Provincial High Court has acted within their

jurisdiction?

2. In the circumstances where the Provincial High Court has

failed to appreciate its lack of jurisdiction in view of the

Provisions of Section 11(2) of the Arbitration Act No 11 of

1995, is the Court of Appeal precluded from considering

an application under Article 138 of the Constitution?

3. In the distinct circumstances of this case, (i.e, the patent

lack of jurisdiction of the High Court under Section 11 (2)

of the Arbitration Act No 11 of 1995) is the Court of Appeal

bound by the Supreme Court judgment of Wakachiku

Construction Company Ltd vs. Road Development

Authority-SC Misc 01/2011decided on 06.02.2013?

Page 4 of 5 II

/ '7

i

! Accordingly, we grant

questions.

leave to appeal

~~(lQ.

on the above

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

Sunil Rajapaksha, J.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

NRj-

Page 5 of 5

•