==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

C.A .. No.239-240/95 (F) D.C.Mt.Lavinia No.16401F

1. Gamage Wilbert Perera No.111 Cheengahakotunna Road, Depanama. Pannipitiya.

9. Gamage Magi Nona Perera (Deceased) 9a. D.Nandasoma Kasthuriarachchi No.765, Station Road, Pannipitiya.

1 st & 9th Defendant-Appellants

Vs.

Gamage Abeysena Perera "Pawana" Depanama. Pannipitiya.

Plaintiff-Respondent

2. Malmbage Sedera Sigera "Sriyananda Apana Shalawa"

Kumbukwewa, Kudukgete Kurunegala.

3 Malambage Vinie Sigera No. 1139, Cheengahakotunna Road, Depanama. Pannipitiya.

4 Mambage Cyril Sigers (Decided)

4a. Gamage Dona Dayawathie N 0.139, Cheengahakotunna Road, Depanama.

I I

Pannipitiya.

5. Ramanayakage Nancy Nona No.13 7. Cheengahakotunna Road, Depanama. Pannipitiya.

6. Kariyawasam Majuwana Gamage Dayapala, No.13 7, Cheengahakotunna Road, Depanama. Pannipitiya.

7. Kamalawathie F onseka Cheenagahakotunna Road, Depanama, Pannipitiya

8. Vanniarachchchige Chandradasa Fonseka, No. 135,Cheenagahakotunna Road,Depanama, Pannipitiya

10.Gamage Magi Nona Perera (Dead)

II.Kodipplige Milinona

Cheenagahakotunna Road,Depanama, Pannipitiya.

12. Kariyawasam Majuwana Ganmage Thilakaratne Cheenagahakotunna Road, . Depanama, Pannipitiya.

13.Kariyawasam majuwana Gamage Gunapala No.13 7,Meegahakotunna Road, Depanama, Pannipitiya.

Defendant-Respondents.

2

Before A. W .A. Salam,J. Counsel Nihal Jayammanne P.C. with Nurani Amarasinghe for the Appellant in C.A.No.240 /95 (F) and 1st Defendant-Appellant in C.A.No.239/95 (F). H.Withanachi for the 7th Defendant-Appellant in C.A.No.239/95 (F) and 7th Defendant-Respondent in C.A. No 240/95 (F). N.R.M.Daluwatte, P.C., with Athula Walisundara for the Plaintiff-Respondent in both appeals. Argued on 25.06.2012. Written Submissions tendered on 20.09.201l. Decided on 29.08.2012

A W Abdus Salam, J T

his being a partition action after investigation of title

the learned district judge entered interlocutory

decree to partition the land among the parties whom he

declared as the co-owners of the corpus. The extent of

the undivided share each party is entitled to was not

decided by the learned district judge instead he made

order that a schedule of shares indicating the undivided

rights of each co-owner be filed by the plaintiff and

thereafter such schedule if not inconsistent with his

findings be regarded as part and parcel of the judgment

and LD.

Of the two separate appeals preferred against the said

judgement and interlocutory decree, one such appeal

deals directly with the failure of the district judge to

3

I II

properly investigate title as required by law, in that the

learned trial judge has failed to decide the exact

share / shares each party is entitled to as required by

law. In the other appeal even though the same point of

law has not been urged, in the written submissions the

learned counsel has taken up the position that the

judgement cannot be regarded as a proper judgement in

view of the direction given by the learned district judge

that a schedule of shares to be tendered by the plaintiff

to be accepted as part and parcel of the judgment if not

inconsistent with the findings. The course adopted by

the learned district judge to determine the rights of the

parties, the appellants complain, is obnoxious to the

provisions of the Partition Law as the learned district

judge has failed to discharge the elementary duty of

deciding the most important aspect of the case, namely

the extent of the soil rights each party is entitled to.

It is settle law that in a partition action the trial judge is

obliged to decide the nature and the extent of interest

each party is entitled to from and out of the corpus.

Section 25 of the Partition Law requires the court to

examine the title of each party and try and determine all

questions of law and fact arising in that action in regard

to the right, share, or interest of each party to, of, or in

the land to which the action relates, and shall consider

and decide which of the orders mentioned in section 26

should be made.

4

l I

The learned district judge m discharging this

fundamental obligation has failed to give effect to the

mandatory provisions of the Partition Law. It is

common knowledge that the schedule of shares

indicating the undivided soil rights of each party and

other claims regarding improvements should be

embodied in the interlocutory decree. The main reason

for this is to facilitate an appeal within the prescribed

period against the judgment including the undivided

share allocation by the trial judge, in the event a party

dissatisfied with such an allocation of rights. In CA

1166 & 1167/96F it was held that the failure of the

district judge to indicate the undivided interest of each

party in the interlocutory decree is a fatal irregularity

which gives rise to the judgement and interlocutory

decree being set aside.

In the case of Memanis Vs Eide 59 Ceylon Law Weekly

page 46 His Lordship Basnayaka CJ with His Lordship

H.N.G. Fernando J, concurnng laid down the

propositions that it is imperative to include the extent of

interest each party in the interlocutory decree. For

purpose of ready reference the relevant passage from

the said judgement is reproduced below.

"In his judgement the learned that district judge

says; "plaintiffs proctor will file a schedule of

5

\III

I 1

, shares which when filed will form part and

parcel of this judgement" and there is a schedule

of shares filed which he has adopted in entering

the interlocutory decree. Section 25 of the

Partition Act, provides that the judge shall

examine the title of each party and shall hear

and receive evidence in support thereof and shall

try and determine all questions of law and fact

arising in that action in regard to the right,

share or interest of each party to, of, or in the

land to which that action relates, and shall

consider and decide which of the orders

mentioned in section 26 should be made. In the

instant case there has been no determination of

the shares of the parties as required by the

Partition Act. It is the shares so determined by

the judge that the court is required to enter in

the interlocutory decree. The course taken by

the learned district judge is contrary to the

provisions of section 26 of the Partition Act."

Based on the two decisions quoted above, it IS my

opinion that the judgement and interlocutory decree

cannot be allowed to stand by reason of its manifest

illegality. Hence, the impugned judgement and

interlocutory decree are set aside and the case sent

back for retrial. The learned district judge is directed

to give priority to this case over all other business of

6

I I I

.1 , , 1 court as the parties have undergone tremendous

hardship and . . InconvenIence by reason of the

non-compliance of the mandatory provisions of the

Partition Law by the learned district Judge.

There shall be no costs of this appeal.

cl~o<· Judge of the Court of Appeal

Wc/-

7

\