==== BLOCKS ==== 

I i

I

\ I !

1 1 l I I I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA. 96/2013 (Writ)

1. The Ceylon Teachers' Union

2. Benedict Joseph Stalien

Secretary - Ceylon Teachers' Union

3. S. Priyantha Fernando

President - Ceylon Teachers' Union

All of 65/3, Chittampalam A. Gardiner

Mawatha, Colombo 2.

And 52 others

PETITIONERS

Vs.

1. Bandula Gunawardena Esq., MP

Hon. Minister of Education,

Isurupaya, Battaramulla.

And 66 others

RESPONDENTS

AND NOW BETWEEN

In the matter of an Application for

Intervention.

1. Yen Telambugammana Chandrananda

Thero

Sri Pushparamaya, Kobeigana

And 199 others

INTERVENIENT-PETITIONERS

Vs.

1

, I

I

I ! I J j I

1 I I I

1 BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

1. The Ceylon Teachers' Union

And 54 others

PETITIONERS-RESPONDENTS

AND

2. Bandula Gunawardena Esq., MP

Hon. Minister of Education,

Isurupaya, Battaramulla.

And 66 others

RESPONDENTS-RESPONDENTS

Rajeev Amarasuriya for the Intervenient-Petitioner

Krishmal Warnasuriya with Wardanie Karunaratne for Petitioners

2

Milinda Gunatilleke D.S.G. for 1st , 14th , 21st , 38th , 48th , 53rd , & 56th

Respondents

24.10.2013 & 05.12.2013

25.02.2014

I I I ! t

I I

3

GOONERATNE J.

This is an application to intervene in an application for Mandates in

the nature of Writs of Certiorari, Prohibition & Mandamus, filed by the Ceylon

Teachers' Union (1st Petitioner) and 54 others. 2nd & 3rd Petitioners are Secretary

and President of the 1st Petitioner Union. 4th to 5th Petitioners are persons in

Grade I of the Sri Lanka Principals Service and as pleaded entitled and eligible for

appointments of Class III of the Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service

(SLEAS). Service minute of the SLEAS produced marked P3. In paragraph l(d) of

the petition it is pleaded that the matter in the interests of the general public in

the form of a public interest litigation. The Respondents are Minister of Education

and the Cabinet of Ministers (1st Respondent and 2nd to 65th Respondents

respectively). The 66th Respondent is the Secretary to the Ministry of the! 1st

Respondent. 6t

h Respondent is the Secretary to the Cabinet.

It would be, also important to give one's mind to the relief sought in

the Writ application. The prayer reads thus:

(a) Grant and issue a mandate in the nature of a Writ of Certiorari quashing the Cabinet

decision purporting to absorb those ineligible into the SLeAS as contained in Cabinet

Memorandum bearing reference No.2012/ ED/E/13 dated 28/03/2012 and Cabinet

i i I I ! I I I I j

\

I

4

paper bearing reference No. 12/0443/530/015 dated 14/06/2012 marked "P13" and

"P14" respectively;

(b) Grant and issue a mandate in the nature of a Writ of Prohibition restraining 1st to 65th

Respondents from giving effect to the Cabinet decision purporting to absorb those

ineligible into the SLEAS as contained in Cabinet Memorandum bearing reference No.

2012/ED/E/13 dated 28/03/2012 and Cabinet paper bearing reference No.

12/0443/530/015 dated 14/06/2012 marked "P13" and "P14" respectively.

(c) Grant and issue a mandate in the nature of a Writ of Mandamus directing the 66th

Respondent to immediately take steps to assess and identify accurately the number of

vacancies existing in the cadre of SLEAS Class III.

(d) Grant and issue an interim order staying any further steps in terms of the above Cabinet

decision purporting to absorb those ineligible into the SLEAS as contained in Cabinet

Memorandum bearing reference No.2012/ ED/E/13 dated 28/03/2012 and Cabinet

paper bearing reference No. 12/0443/530/015 dated 14/06/2012 marked "P13" and

"P14" respectively;

The Intervenient-Petitioners call themselves as the primary stake

holders in respect of matters sought to be impugned by this application. It is

described in the petition of the Intervenient-Petitioners (all 200 in number) are

officers who are functioning for a very long period of time and performing as

Assistant Directors of Education and on the verge of being absorbed on a

supernumerary basis to the SLEAS. It is further stated that they presently hold

appointments that are to be made permanent and such absorption and

permanency are to be challenged in the misconceived Writ Application filed by

the Petitioners. There are several points urged in paragraph 2 of the petition of

1 I 1 I I I j j 1 1 j \

5

the Intervenient-Petitioners which more or less gives the reason and basis for

intervention in this application.

It would be essential to consider both the factual and legal position in

an application of this nature notwithstanding the fact that Court of Appeal

(Appellate) procedure Rules of 1990 do not permit 3rd party interventions.

Let me gather, inter alia, the following points urged by the

intervenient party.

(1) The true and accurate state of facts and circumstances surrounding the

appointments of Intervenient-Petitioners being permanent and their

absorption to the SLEAS, Petitioners who seek intervention have functioned

for a long period of time.

(2) Best equipped to place facts i.e proper history and background, and after

several years and several significant events culminated in decision of

Cabinet and the Public Service Commission granting permanency and the

absorption of the Intervenient Petitioners.

(3) Nature and character of duty performed would indicate that this lot of

Intervenient-Petitioners are vital and necessary parties.

(4) Intervenient-Petitioners are not only the direct beneficiaries of the decision

impugned, which purports to strike at the very root of their livelihood, but

more importantly the decision to absorb them is the fruition of a struggle

which the Intervenient-Petitioners have been engaged in for several years.

(5) The Intervenient-Petitioners do not have confidence that the Respondents

would do proper justice in the defence and the resistance of the case

· -

6

especially where the beneficiaries of the impugned decision i.e the

Intervenient-Petitioners are not a party to the appUcation. (sub para (F) of

para 2 pg. 33 to 61 of their petition).

(6) Display extreme mala fides of Petitioners etc. (a) in sub para (h) of 2 pg 33 -

61) and in any event liable to be dismissed for failure to name necessary

parties.

(7) It would be in the interest of the Petitioner to keep the application pending

for as long as possible, thereby seeking to delay the implementation of the

decision, of Cabinet and the PSC to absorb the intervenient-Petitioners to

their present post permanently.

(8) Intervenient-Petitioners have as at present no grievance with the

Respondents, to file a separate case. As such only recourse available is to

intervene and protect and safeguard their interest.

(9) The Intervenient-Petitioners further state that the impugned decision was

ultra vires or illegal or liable to be set-aside The discretion to refuse the

grant of relief on several grounds including public policy, public interest,

conduct of the Petitioners or where it is vexatious or where it would result

in disastrous consequences, and consequently, the determination is not

limited to one of mere legality, but transgresses a much wider scope and

ambit, and the inclusion of the Intervenient Petitioners would assist in the

full and proper and due determination of the same.

10. The Intervenient-Petitioners further reiterate that if the prayers sought by

the Petitioners (misconceived as they may be) are granted the very

livelihood and career progression of the Intervenient-Petitioners will be

severely prejudiced and as such, the Intervenient-Petitioners are left with

7

no alternative but to seek to intervene into this Application in order to

ensure that the livelihood and career progression of the Intervenient

Petitioners as well as the beneficial interests of the public are best

safeguarded.

I have perused the entire petition submitted to this court consisting

of about 61 pages (entitled to plead) and somewhat prolix in the context of this

application. I am thankful to learned counsel for the Intervenient-Petitioners who

had taken the trouble to explore and disclose details more particularly the

position and stance of the Intervenient-Petitioners which may make them entitled

to intervene in this application. There is also further expansion of the above

submissions in other sub titles referring to "the principal grounds for

intervention". Necessary and vital parties not made Respondents,

misrepresentation and suppression of material facts in the petition of the

Petitioners; in terms of Article 61A of the Constitution this is a matter to be

decided by the Supreme Court; prayer to the petition misconceived; Petitioners

not invoked the jurisdiction of court bona fide etc.

The rest of the petition is in several parts namely part B, C, D, E, F, G,

H. Finally the focus is on public interest dimension.

fl! !(t

Ii

fI Ii

8

What is sought to be quashed in this application is a Cabinet

Memorandum (P13) and a Cabinet Decision (P14). As far as the relief prayed for in

the prayer to the petition, it is for the named Respondents in the petition of the

petitioners to resist the application in the best possible way and assist court to

arrive at a proper decision. The Petitioners rely inter alia on several documents

which are annexed to the petition inclusive of the service minutes to obtain relief

from this court more particularly demonstrating that ineligible persons should not

be absorbed into the above service. The Respondents named in the petition are

competent to place all necessary facts and circumstances relevant to the case

without any external intervention or compulsion from any other party. It is very

unfortunate that the Intervenient-Petitioners attempt to demonstrate that they

have no confidence that the Respondents would do proper justice in the defence

and resistance of this case. This court totally reject and dismiss such an

unfounded baseless allegation.

The Honourable Attorney General has nominated (as stated in the

several journal entries) Deputy Solicitor General to undertake the defence and

appear. Such baseless allegation would not prevent the State from placing the

relevant facts in a reliable way and assist this court. Attorney General being the

Chief Legal Officer to advice and appear on behalf of the State is more than

9

competent to assist court and perform its usual functions which could in all

probabilities display and perform the quazi judicial role which is expected to be

performed by the Attorney General as the Chief Legal Officer of the State. It is

unfortunate that the Intervenient-Petitioners make such insidious unacceptable

insinuation in their pleadings. Courts will not be moved by such statements,

irrespective of the outcome of this application.

If ineligible persons are absorbed into the SLEAS, such a move or

statement on the part of the Petitioners need to be verified, dissected, analysed

and examined by the Respondents named in the petition of the Petitioners in

Memorandum was considered and examined prior to its issue by the Respondents

their capacity as the author of documents P13 & P14. Cabinet Decision and

to this application and not the Intervenient-Petitioners, although they may have

been the beneficiaries. Even if the Intervenient-Petitioners have an interest in the

subject matter of this application, all necessary explanations and justifications to

issue P13 & P14 need to surface from the Respondents and not by any busybody

or by a meddlesome busybody like the Intervenient-Petitioners although they

may have a grievance if relief prayed for by the Petitioners are granted.

f

10

The points urged by the Intervenient-Petitioners and incorporated in

this order at (1) to (4) above are all factual matters that the Respondents could

aver and deal in their objections, If really necessary; or provide details of such

facts. The matters stated in 6, 8, 9 & 10 are not matters that could not be dealt,

with by the Respondents, if necessary. Point No. (2) is a mere general allegation

and this court cannot consider such a position and waste valuable judicial time.

I would at this point of my order consider a few case law on the

subject. My views to refuse this application for intervention are fortified by the

observations made by the Supreme Court that, it has never been the practice of

this court to allow persons other than those who are parties to the application for

writs to intervene in the proceedings. Chandrasena Vs. de Silva (1961) 63 NLR

143.

In Weerakoon & Another Vs. Bandaragama Pradeshiya Sabha 2012

BLR 310 at 311 per Ranjith Silva J. holds that

" .... In this Context, it is pertinent to note that the Court of Appeal (Appellate Procedure)

Rules 1990, made under Article 136 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist

Republic of Sri Lanka setting out the procedure to be followed by this court in dealing

with applications inter alia for prerogative writs, do not provide for third party

interventions in these proceedings ... "

t\IIII

11

Harold Peter Fernando Vs. Divisional Secretary Hanguranketha & Two

Others 2005 BLR 120 held that Court of Appeal (Appellate Procedure) Rules 1990

do not provide for third party intervention in application for writs under Article

140 of the Constitution.

Sri Lanka Medical Council Vs. Secretary Ministry of Finance &

Planning C.A (W) 651/2010 - CA minutes of 3.4.2013 per Sri Skandarajah J.

" .... a person has "a standing" or 'adequate interest" in a particular application ~

not the ground on which he could be made a party to that application. If the

Petitioner is aggrieved by any decision made by any authority, he should

independently file an action to redress his grievance, but that is not a ground on

which he could intervene in an application made by another person ... "

Bandaranayake Vs. de Alwis et al (1982) 2 SLR 617. This judgment has considered

the case of Maha Nayaka Thero, Malwatta Vihara Vs. Registrar General et al

(1938) 39 NLR 186 and observed that such a judgment is not helpful to decide

intervention. (above Mahanayake case in fact allowed intervention) at pgs. 121,

122 & 123 ...

In the hearing into the application for intervention, learned President's Counsel

appearing for the Intervenient-Petitioner relied on the judgment of the Supreme Court

in Maha Nayaka Thero, Malwatta Vihare v. Registrar-General et al (1938) 39 N.L.R 186 to

show that our courts have allowed interventions by third parties in proceedings for

prerogative relief where the decision of court would affect such parties. This was an

extraordinary case in which the Maha Nayaka There of the Malwatta Vihara had sought

a writ of mandamus on the Registrar General to compel the latter to exercise his power

under the Buddhist Temporalities Ordinance by modifying the register of priests in

I

f

i II

12

terms of a communication from the petitioner to the effect that a certain priest had

been expelled by him from the priesthood. Intervention by the expelled priest in

question was allowed by court, without objection being taken. At page 189 ('f the

judgment, Soertsz J. has observed that the expelled priest was permitted to intervene

"as he was vitally concerned in the matter", but the focus of the judgment of the

Supreme Court was on the question whether the Court should exercise its beneficial

discretion in favour of the petitioner in the peculiar circumstances of the case. Soertsz J.,

after carefully considering the merits of the case, went on to refuse the mandamus

sought by the Maha Nayaka Thero as his Lordship was satisfied that the substantial

dispute between the intervenient priest and the Maha Nayaka Thera ought to be

adjudicated upon and determined by a proper tribunal in a regular action, and the grant

of the mandamus at that stage would put the intervenient priest "in a position of great

disadvantage, and even of great danger" (page 192). This judgment is not helpful in

deciding whether intervention should be allowed in a case such as the present one,

where objection is taken to the application for intervention.

Dr. Ranaraja J. in Tyre House (Pvt.) (1) Vs. Director General of

Customs CA 730/95 CA minutes 5.6.1996. Per Ranarajah J.

ITo permit intervention overlooks the basic rule governing locus standi which is that a

person who has a particular grievance of his own is entitled to certiorari ex debito

justitiae, while the grant of the remedy to a stranger is purely discretionary ......

"In the instant case, what the intervenients are seeking is to prevent the relief sought by

the petitioner being granted. Thus they have no common interest with the petitioner

and can in no way be considered laggrieved persons' who have an interest in preventing

an abuse of power by the Director General of Customs, as alleged by the petitione'. It is

the respondent and he alone who could say that he has acted within the law and his

decisions sought to be quashed are valid in law. Court cannot permit outsiders to offer

him moral support or cheer him along in his battle with the petitioner. Such a course

would only strengthen the case of the petitioner that the respondent acted the way he

did for extraneous reason and therefore mala fide."

The appellate procedure Rules of 1990 do not provide for 3

rd party

interventions, in Writ Applications. These rules made under Article 136 of the

Constitution refer to the procedure to be adopted but makes no provision for 3

rd

II

13

party interventions. Prerogative writs are discretionary remedies of court. Its

character and nature is different to other actions or suits before Superior Courts.

It is the named Respondents alone, who could satisfy court that they acted within

the available legal frame work and or plead and demonstrate to court as to

whether the remedy sought in the context of this application could be granted or

not. Learned D.S.G indicated to court that he would abide by the decisions of this

t

f

court as regards the application for intervention is concerned. Nor did he wish to I

comment at the inquiry that the intervenient party is a necessary party. There is

no preclusion on the part of the Respondents to plead the grounds which

disentitle court to grant the remedy sought by the Petitioners. In all the above

facts and circumstances of this application this court is not inclined to grant 3

rd

party intervention.

Application for intervention refused and dismissed.

I agree. N.~ J~THE~

W.M.M.Malinie Gunaratne J.

I