==== BLOCKS ==== 

C.AEP02/20 1 0

Before

Counsel

'-\"""u.='cJ

r n J .J..5 ,",..l .... !.<.

Decided on

. in the matter of HE Election Petition in terms of the

Provisions oEthe Pa.rLiamentary Elections Act No. lof

t 981 (as amended) EIec(jGn fortb.c Eler:tcral District of Galle Hotden (·n the 8th day of April 2010

\Veersasing,he ATachchige Krishantha Pushpakumaraa Sughathararna Road, Udawatta, Bataduwa, Galle.

Sisira de Abrew J

Petitioner

Vs

Dayananda Dissanayake Commissioner of Elections Elections Secretariat PO Box 02,

Sarana Mawatha, Rajagiriya. And 261 others

Respondents

JC \Valiamuna for the petitioner. A.Gnanathasan PC Addl. Solicitor General for the

1 S{ and the tId Respondent DS \' '". . , ·PC f h t rh, '5th R d ~ ,,11Jesmgt1'~ . >or t c i~ emu tne espon ents • a j )1' l./ .. _t i

"""'9"nll ~j •• .:..V .1

2

Sisira de Abrew J.

The petitioner in this case was a candidate nominated by the United

National Party (UNP) at the Parliamentary Elections for the District of Galle

held on 8.4.2010. The 4th and 5th respondents were declared elected to the

Parliament at the said election from the UNP by the 15t respondent.

The petitioner in this petition challenges the election of the 4th and the

5th respondents to the Parliament. Learned PC for the 4th and 5th respondents

raising a preliminary objection to the maintainability of the petition

submitted that the relief prayed for by the petitioner could not be granted in

view of the facts averred by the petitioner. When one considers the relief

claimed by the petitioner, it is clear that the petitioner is not challenging the

election of the electoral district of Galle but challenging the election of the

4th and the 5th respondents who were elected as members of the Parliament.

Since the petitioner is challenging the election of candidates his case must

fall within the ambit of section 92(2) of the Parliamentary Election Act No.1

of 1981(hereinafter referred to as the Election Act).

It has to be noted that whilst Section 92(1) of the Election Act deals

with election of electoral districts Section 92(2) deals with election of

candidates. Thus even if the petitioner establishes grounds set out in section

92( 1) of the Election Act, he cannot succeed in this case. Since the petitioner

is challenging the election of candidates, for him to succeed in this case, he

must establish the grounds set out in section 92(2) of the Election Act which

reads as follows.

3

"The election of a candidate as a Member shall be declared to be void on an

election petition on any of the following grounds which may be proved to

the satisfaction of Election Judge, namely-

(a) that a corrupt or illegal practice was committed in connection with the

election by the candidate or with his knowledge or consent or by any

agent of the candidate;

(b) that the candidate personally engaged a person as a canvasser or agent

or to speak on his behalf knowing that such person had within seven

years previous to such engagement been found guilty of a corrupt

practice under the law relating to the election of the President or the

law relating to Referendum or under the Ceylon (Parliamentary

Elections) Order in Council,1946, or under this Act, by a court of

competent jurisdiction or by the report of an election judge;

(c) that the candidate personally engaged a person as a canvasser or

agent or to speak on his behalf knowing that such 'person had been a

person on whom civic disability had been imposed by a resolution

passed by Parliament in terms of Article 81 of the Constitution, and

the period of such civic disability specified in such resolution had not

expired.

(d) That the candidate was at the time of his election a person

disqualified for election as a Member." Vide Section 92(2) of the

Election Act.

Learned PC whilst pursuing his contention on the above line contended that

the petitioner has not averred facts to prove any of the grounds set out in

section 92(2) of the Election Act. Learned Counsel for the petitioner

contended that if preferential votes were correctly counted by the election

4

officials, the 3rd and the 4th respondents would not have been elected as

members of the Parliament. He further contended that when preferential

votes are counted incorrectly the candidate elected by the people would not

be in the Parliament and that it would materially affect the result of the

election. He relied on the judgment of the Supreme Court in Madiwake Vs

Dayananda Dissanayake [2001] 1 SLR 177 wherein it states: "The four

petitioners were registered voters of the Kandy District, which is one of the

three districts of the Central Province. The election of members to the

Provincial Council of that Province was held on 6.5.1988 under the

Provincial Council Elections Act No.20f 1988 as amended (the Act). The

petitioners were members of the United National Party (the UNP) while the

1 st petitioner was also a candidate for the Kandy District; the 4th petitioner

was a polling agent.

The petitioners alleged that various incidents had occurred on election day at

twenty five named polling stations in that district, including the premature

closure of one polling station as well as the ballot stuffing, driving away

polling agents and intimidation of several others; and that the 1 st respondent

by his failure to declare the poll at such polling stations void (except at one

polling station) under section 46A(2) of the Act, as amended by Act No. 35

of 1988 and to appoint a re-poll thereat under section 46A(7)(a) infringed

their fundamental rights. Leave to proceed was granted in respect of the

infringement of Articles 12( 1) and 14( 1)( a) of the Constitution.

It was established that ballot stuffing took place at twelve polling stations;

that at eleven other polling stations there were incidents of harrassment and

chasing away of UNP polling agents by means of violence or threatening of

violence; and that the 1 ih to 15th respondents were actively involved in four

incidents.

5

The 1 st respondent annulled the poll at the Polwatta polling station, but did

not appoint are-poll.

Held:

Section 46A( 1 )(b) of the Act reqUIres a genume poll, continuing

uninterrupted from begimling to the end, and compels the Commissioner to

make qualitative assessment as to whether the poll was free, equal and

secret.

Even before the count on 6.4.99 there was prima facie evidence that ballot

stuffing and chasing away polling agents had taken place; and there was no

proper poll in law. The 1 st and 2nd respondents had sufficient notice of those

incidents. However the 1 st respondent failed to make adequate inquiries in

respect of those incidents and decide whether there was a genuine poll. On

the available material the 1 st respondent should have annulled the poll not

only at Polwatte but also at other twenty polling stations."

I would like to note that the above case was in relation to a

violation of fundamental rights.

I must consider whether the petitioner has averred facts to prove

any of the grounds set out in section 92(2) of the Election Act. I have gone

through the petition of the petitioner and note that the petitioner has not

averred facts to prove any of the grounds set out in section 92(2) of the

Election Act. This observation is strengthened by paragraph 22 of the

petition which states as follows:

"The petitioner states that above mentioned acts and omissions of the

officers of the 1 st respondent including the counting officers amount to non

compliance with the provisions of the Parliamentary Elections Act No.10f

1981 and that the election was not conducted in accordance with the

6

principles laid down in law and that such non compliance materially affects

the results of the election."

At this stage it is relevant to con·sider the judgment of the Supreme

Court in Alexander V s Chandrananda de Silva, Commissioner of Eletions

[1996] 2SLR 301 The Supreme observed: "The appellant was a candidate of

the Podujana Eksath Peramuna (P A) at the Parliamentary Elections in 1994

for the electoral district No.9 Hambantota. P A won four seats. On the basis

of the preference vote for P A candidates the returning officer declared

elected as members the 20

th

, 19t\ 1 i h and 13th respondents in that order. The

appellant obtained 388 preferences less than the 13 th respondent and was

unsuccessful. In his petition the appellant alleged non compliance with the

provisions of the Act in the counting of preferences which is a ground set

out in 91 (1 )(b) of the Parliamentary Elections Act NO.lof 1981 for

challenging an election in respect of any electoral district. The petitioner

sought inter alia, for a declaration that the return of the 13

th respondent as

elected was undue and for a declaration after a re-scrutiny of preference

votes for the P A, that the appellant is duly elected as a Member of

Parliament.

Held: The petitioner ought, on the ground alleged by him, to have prayed for

avoidance of the election in respect of the electoral district and not the

election of the member.

The Court cannot by giving a purposive interpretation to section 92(1) of the

Parliamentary Elections Act permit a partial avoidance of the election. Such

an attempt would cross the boundary between construction and legislation."

'.

"

7

When I apply the principles laid down in the above judicial

decision, I am of the opinion that there is no merit in the contention raised

by learned counsel for the petitioner and that the petitioner cannot maintain

this action.

I have earlier held that the petitioner had not averred facts to prove

any of the grounds set out in section 92(2) of the election Act. For these

reasons I hold that the petitioner cannot maintain this petition. I therefore

uphold the preliminary objection raised by learned President's Counsel for

the 4th and 5th respondents and dismiss the petition.

Petition dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

t ! I

~

I 1 ! I