==== BLOCKS ==== 

.' 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A.Writ Application No. 689/08

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued on

Written Submissions on

Decided on

In the matter of an Application for

mandates in the nature of Writs of

Certiorari, and Prohibition in terms of

Article 140 of the Constitution of the

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

Wasana Trading Lanka (Private) Limited,

No.310, Negombo Road, Welisara,

Ragama.

Petitioners

Vs

1. Sudharma Karunaratne,

Director General, Customs Department,

Times Building, Bristol Street, Colombo 1.

And six (06) Others.

Respondents

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J.

K.Deekiriwewa with L.N.Deekiriwewa and Mrs.

M.K.Herath

for the Petitioner.

F.Jameel DSG

for the Respondents.

09.09.2010

19.10.2010 Petitioner

22.11.2010 Respondent

18.01.2011

I j ! l s

! 1 i i j

J

~ , I

J

1

2

S.Sriskandarajah J,

The Petitioner has imported 11 seater vans in the ordinary cause of business

which were classified under HS Code 8702.90.03 and cleared those vehicles on

21 st and 24th November 2006. Sri Lanka Customs after having examined the

goods and the customs entry levied respectively Rs. 612,328/-and

Rs.6,369,253/ - as duty and other levies excluding Excise Duty. Prior to

17.11.2006 the 11 seater vans classified under HS Code 8702.90.03 is not an

excisable item as per the order made under Section 3 of the Excise (Special

Provisions) Act No 3 of 1989 as amended. On 16.11.2006 Minister of Finance

made order under Section 3 of the said Act declaring that the items fall under

HS code 8702.90.03 are excisable items and fixed a rate of 3% as exercise duty

and it will come into effect from 17.11.2006. The 1st and 2nd Respondent

submitted that due to a technical error, the new excise duty rates had not

been fed into the computers of the Customs Department but it was updated

two weeks later. Due to this fact the Excise duty that should have been

imposed on the imports of the said vehicles on the 21st and 24th of November

2006 was not imposed. Therefore the 2nd Respondent on behalf of the 1st

Respondent demanded the payment of Excise duty of Rs. 627,982/- and

Rs.6,522,901/ - for the said two imports by his letter dated 08.12.2006 marked

as X7(a) in the Petition. The Petitioner company appealed to the Deputy

Minister in respect of the duty claimed by the Sri Lanka Customs and

informed the 2nd Respondent by its letter dated 24.04.2007 that it will pay the

said excise duty before 31.05.2007 in the event the Company does not obtain

a duty waiver from the Ministry of Finance. As the Petitioner has not settled

the dues the 2nd Respondent on behalf of the 1st Respondent informed the

Petitioner by his letter dated 15.08.2008 marked as X7(b) in the Pe4tition to

settle the dues within 14 days and if failed action will be taken to revoke the

facilities in terms of the provisions of Section 144 of the Customs Ordinance.

The Petitioner in this application is seeking a writ of certiorari to quash the

decision communicated by the letters marked X7(a) and X7 (b). The Petitioner

I j I l ! 1 i 1 i j I 1 I I I ; I i

1 1

j !

j

3

has also sought a writ of prohibition prohibiting the application of the order

made under Section 3 of the Excise (Special Provisions) Act No 13 of 1989

published in the Gazette on the 16th of November 2006 marked X3 in the

Petition from 6.11.2003 to 11.01.2003.

The Petitioner has sought the above relief on the following basis.

1. The Minister has no jurisdiction to make an order that will come into

operation on a subsequent date other than the date on which he signed

the order and published the same in the gazette. In view of this the

order X3 is ultra vires and it cannot be implemented.

2. The recovery of any Excise duty that has not been recovered by the

Customs at the time of Importation could be recovered only by an

Excise Officer in view of the provisions of the Excise (Special

Provisions)Act. In any event Section 144 of the Customs Ordinance is

not applicable in the given circumstances.

On the first issue the Petitioner contended that the order marked X 3 is ultra

vires as there is an anomaly in the date of implementation of the order and

the order came into effect. The said order was published in the Gazette on

16.11.2006 accordingly the minister has signed the said order on that day.

According to Section 2 of the Protection of Government Revenue (Special

Provisions) Act No 1 of 2006 the order should have come into effect on

16.11.2006 but in the order the Minister has declared that with effect from 17th

November 2006 , Excise Duty on every article specified in Column III of the

Schedule hereto shall be payable at the rate in the corresponding entry in

Column IV. From the above that there is a contradiction with regard to the

date on which the said order is going to be in force. Hence the Petitioner

submitted that the order is ultra vires the rule making authority conferred

on the Minister.

I I

\ I ! ! !

i I I ( I l

t !

~ }

1 ! i ! 1 I i I I 1 1

~

j 1 1 j

1

4

Section 2 of the Protection of Government Revenue (Special Provisions) Act

No 1 of 2006 provides;

"Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any law specified in Part I of

the schedule hereto, an order made by the appropriate Minister under

any such Law, shall come into force from the date on which the Minister

has affixed his signature on such Order" .

The Excise (Special Provisions) Act, No 13 of 1989 is specified in part I of the

Protection of Government Revenue (Special Provisions) Act No 1 of 2006.

Therefore the order made by the Minister under the Excise (Special

Provisions) Act, No 13 of 1989 shall come into force from the date on which

the Minister has affixed his signature. The order signed by the Minister and

published in the Government Gazette No 1471/23 dated 16.11.2006 under

section 3 of the Excise (Special Provisions) Act, No 13 of 1989 in view of the

above provisions has in fact come into force on 16. 11. 2006. The order of the

minister is declaring a new or a different Excise duty to the Article specified

in Column III of the order with effect from 17.11.2006. The Excise (Special

Provisions) Act, No 13 of 1989 empowers the Minister in Section 3(4) to give a

later date specified in the order for the order to come in to force. Section 3

reads as follows:

3(1) There shall be charged, levied and paid on every article manufactured or produced in Sri Lanka, or imported into Sri Lanka,

an excise duty at such rate or rates as may be specified by the Minister, by Order published in the Gazette. Every such article in

respect of which an Order is made under this section is hereafter referred to as "an excisable article ".

2 .. .

3 .. .

4. Every Order made by the Minister under this section shall come into force on the date of its publication in the Gazette or on

such later date as may be specified in such Order and shall be brought before Parliament within a period of four months from

the date of its publication in the Gazette or, if no meeting of Parliament is held within such period, at the first meeting of

Parliament held after the expiry of such period, by a motion that such Order be approved.

Even though the above section empowers the Minister to give a later date

specified in the order for the order to come in to force the later Act namely

Protection of Government Revenue (Special Provisions) Act No 1 of 2006

takes away that power by specifically providing; notwithstanding

1 1 I j 1 I

5

anything to the contrary in any law specified in Part I an order made by

the appropriate Minister under any such Law, shall come into force from

the date on which the Minister has affixed his signature on such order.

As Excise (Special Provisions) Act, No 13 of 1989 is specified in Part I

mentioned above there is no anomaly in the operative date of the order.

The gazette notification marked X3 gives the date on which the Minister

affixed his signature on the order namely 16th November 2006 and this is

the operative date of the said order.

The Petitioners contention that the Minister has opted to exercise a part of

the removed statutory power or authority leads to abuse of power and

hence ultra viras the rule making authority has no merit. The Minister has

exercised his power under Section 3 of the Excise (Special Provisions) Act.

The Power to charge, and levy on every article manufactured or produced

in Sri Lanka, or imported into Sri Lanka, an excise duty at such rate or

rates as specified by the Minister, by order published in the Gazette under

Section 3 is not removed or made inoperative. But what was made

inoperative by the Protection of Government Revenue (Special

Provisions) Act is the power to give a later date for the operation of the

said order. Therefore that part of the order which can be separated from

the other part of the order i.e. "with effect from 17th November 2006" will

become inoperative and the rest of the order will be operative from the

date on which the Minister signed the said order that appears in the

gazette notification i.e. 16th November 2006.

The Petitioner challenged the recovery of the excise duty by the 1st and 2nd

Respondent under Section 18(2) of the Customs Ordinance as amended. The

Petitioner contended that the recovery of any Excise duty that has not been

recovered by the Customs at the time of Importation could be recovered only

by an Excise Officer in view of the provisions of the Excise (Special

I I j 'j I 1 \

I 1

1 !

6

Provisions )Act. The Counsel for the Respondent relied on Section 5(2 ) of the

Excise (Special Provisions) Act, No 13 of 1989 as amended by Excise (Special

Provisions) (Amendment) Act, No 8 of 1994 which reads as follows:

5(2) a) Notwithstanding anything in this Act, every person who imports any excisable article manufactured outside Sri Lanka (not being an exempted article within the meaning of sections 3A,3B and 3C) shall pay to the Director-General of Customs, excise duty, in respect of such excisable article, prior to its removal from the customs warehouse or such other place at which such excisable article is stored, at the rates of excise duty determined under section 3,

The above Section imposes a liability on the importer to pay Excise duty in

respect of excisable article, prior to its removal to the Director General of

Customs. This section imposes a corresponding obligation on the Director

General of Customs to collect the Excise duty before the removal of the goods.

In this instant case the Petitioner did not pay the excise duties and the

Director General of Customs has not collected the Excise duty admittedly due

to an error in updating the computers in the Customs Department. But the

vehicles were removed from the customs after paying the other duties and

dues. The contention of the Respondents is that the power to collect excise

duty on imports is vested in the Director General of Customs and hence the

Director General of Customs is empowered to demand payment of any

duties, dues or charges on any goods imported have been sort levied under

Section 18 (2) of the Customs Ordinance. The Respondents further contended

that the words 'short levied' includes even instances of unpaid duties, and not

only duties have been paid in part. Thus an uncollected duty is a short fall in

levy.

Section 18 of the Customs ordinance deals with situation such as short levy of

any duties, dues or charges. The obligation on the Director General of

Customs is to collect the Excise Duty before the removal of the goods as per

Section 5(2) (a) of the Excise (Special Provisions) Act, as amended. In the

instant case the vehicles were removed from the customs and the Director

General of Customs is using the provisions of Section 18(2) of the Customs

ordinance to collect the Excise Duty. The Excise duty is not imposed by the

Customs Ordinance or by the Director General of Customs. It is imposed by

7

the Excise ( Special Provisions) Act but this Act empowers the Director

General of Customs to collect Excise Duties in relation to goods that are

imported before the removal of the same from the customs. At the same time

said Act imposes an obligation on the importer to pay the excise duty on his

imports to the Director General of Customs. There are extensive provisions

laid down in the Excise (Special Provisions) Act to recover the Excise Duties

that are not paid. Section 9 of the said Act provides for the procedure that has

to be followed. Firstly a show cause notice to be issued on the importer to

show cause why he has not paid the amount specified in the notice and if

there is any cause shown after considering his representation a determination

will be made on the Excise Duty due from that person and such person shall

pay that amount. Under Section 10 if that person is not satisfied with the said

determination he may appeal to the Director General and his determination

on appeal is final. Section 12 deals with the recovery of Excise Duty in default

by issuing a certificate to the Magistrate Court having jurisdiction. Section

12A of Excise (Special Provisions) (Amendment) Act, No 8 of 1994 imposes a

penalty for the defaulter of the Excise duty.

There is a statutory scheme embodied in the Excise ( Special Provisions) Act

to recover unpaid excise duties therefore it excludes any other procedure or

remedy. When considering whether a person occupying a land acquired by the state

under the Land Acquisition Act could be ejected by using the provisions of the State

Lands (Recovery of Possession) Act, Justice U.de. Z.Gunawardana in Edwin v

Tillakaratne [2001} 3 Sri.L.R 34 at 39 held:

"when the statutory scheme embodied in the relevant Act (Land Acquisition Act) itself provides a procedure for ejectment or remedy, it must, in the generality of cases, be taken to exclude any other procedure or remedy. One has to follow the procedure given in the Land Acquisition Act itself to remove the petitioner."

Firstly the Director General of Customs cannot recover or collect an unpaid

Excise duty after the removal of the goods from the Customs. Secondly the

Director General of Customs cannot use the provisions of Section 18(2) to

recover unpaid Excise Duty in view of the provisions to collect unpaid Excise

(

J

J

1 I i I

~ J I-i

t I I

~

I I 1

8

duty in the Excise (Special Provisions) Act. Hence this Court issues a writ of

Certiorari to quash the decision contained in document marked X7(a) and X

7(b) without prejudice to the collection of excise duty from the Petitioner in

accordance with the Excise (Special Provisions) Act as amended.

/. 4/-t- J' ,/'fudge of the Court of Appeal

! It

~ t I

t f I I i' I I i f I i