==== BLOCKS ==== 

In the Court of Appeal of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

CA 268/ 2000F DC Negambo: 5414/L

Before: A W A Salam J

Katumatiyawe Muhamdiramalage Jayawardena,

24/77, Elapitiwala Ragama.

Plaintiff-Appelant

Vs

Katumatiyawe Muhandiramge Gathila Jayawrdenana, 24/77, Elapitiwala Ragama.

Defendant- Respondent

Counsel: Nilmini Tirimanne for the appellant and D L A Kanangara for the respondent. Written submissions tendered on: 26. 01.2011 Decided on: 01.02.2011 --T

hiS is an appeal from the judgment of the district

court of Negambo dismissing the action of the

plaintiff. The action of the plaintiff concerns a deed of gift

No 8689 dated 3 August 1989 attested by L. A. C.

Amaratunga, Notary Public. By the said deed

Katumatiyawa Muhamdiramlage Jayawardena (plaintiff)

of 24/77, Elapitiwela, Ragama donated the land which is

the subject matter of this action, situated within the

jurisdiction of the district Court Of Negambo to

Katumatiyawa Muhamdiramlage Gathila Jayawardena.,

his son (defendant) of 24/77, Elapitiwela., Ragama. The gift

was sought to be revoked on gross ingratitude of the

defendant and the plaintiff being subject to Kandyan law.

The cause of action for the revocation of the deed of gift

on the ground of ingratitude was abandoned at the trial.

The learned district judge dismissed the action in so far as

the plaintiff is concerned as there was no proof of the

application of Kandyan law.

As such, the only question that arises for determination

in this appeal is the correctness of the finding of the

learned district judge as regards the application of

Kandyan law to the deed of gift in question.

The two issues on which the learned district judge was

invited to determine the dispute were whether the

plaintiff is governed by Kandyan law and if so whether

he is entitled to relief prayed for in the plaint. The

learned district judge answered both issues in the

negative. Consequently, the deed of gift in question

continued to be in force.

Page 2 of6

l t \ , I I i

t , I ! ,

At the trial the plaintiff gave evidence and produced

documents marked PI and P2. PI is the deed of gift in

question and P2 is the certificate of birth of the plaintiff.

As regards the purported application of Kandyan law to

the dispute the only document produced by the plaintiff

was P2. In terms of P2 the plaintiff had been born on 17

February 1927 at Bamunaulla in the district of

Walgampaththuwa in Kagalle division within

Sabaragamuwa Province. In his evidence the plaintiff

maintained that his father and ancestors were all born at

Bamunaulla. The plaintiff further recalled that his father

was born in the year 1870.

The learned counsel of the plaintiff submits that the

learned district judge has erred in law in determining

that the plaintiff is not governed by Kandyan law despite

the proof offered by the plaintiff that he was born to

parents who were both Kandiyans living within the

Kandyan Provinces and therefore governed by Kandyan

law. He further submits that in the result whether the

plaintiff was born to a man governed by Kandian law

and a woman not so governed and whether he is a person

born to a non-Kandyan father who had contracted a

Page 3 of6

! ! I t I I f

Binna marriage with a Kandyan lady did not arise for

consideration.

Admittedly, the plaintiff had been livm.g in the Maritime

Provm.ces for a long period of time and also had

contracted a marriage With a low country Sinhala

woman. Even though it is not strictlY relevant, the

subject matter of the gift is also situated outside the

Kandian Provm.ces.

In terms of the Kandiq;n Succession Ordinance No 23 of

1917

(1) an issue of a marriage contracted between a man

subject to the Kandyan law and domiciled in the

Kandyan provm.ces and a woman not subject to

the Kandyan law or

(2) an issue of a marriage contracted in binna

between a woman subject to the Kandyan law

and domiciled in the Kandyan Provm.ces and a

man not subject to the Kandyan law shall be

deemed to be and at all times to have been

persons subject to the Kandyan law.

Page 4 c.f 6

\ !

t

!: i t I

! I I , I I I I

~ I ! I I I i ( I I ¥ ! I ! I f ! ,

If the plaintiff is governed by Kandyan law undoubtedly

he has the right to revoke the deed of gift. In order to

exercise that right he must prove that he is governed by

Kandyan law. As has been observed by the learned

district judge, the plaintiff was not able to give the

necessary details regarding his parents to ascertain

whether he falls under the category of a person to whom

Kandyan law applies. For purpose of easy reference the

evidence of the plaintiff found at page 32 and 33 of the

brief is produced hereunder in its original form which

reads as follows.

Z5)®zs1 cya~Gzs1 G2:5)JGW~?

2:5)1 ill C e ~ ro25J B zm 2:5) Gel Z5)®zs1Gro Bc..:lJGro 25)® 2:5)fj®0c..:lD ~w@~6@eJGro cr't]6og cr@®Gro 25)®?

Bzs)Z5)eGill~6 ~zs1 G3Bcr@®J Z5)®JGro Cazs1 ~25)c..:l ®:5)2:5)~?

1927.02.17

cya~Gzs1 G2:5)JGW~?

@~-&JDe

Z5)~GroB~GroB~Gro25)®®Z5)2:5)~

~zs1 Gzs1 25)1

G2:5)JGW~ a~ov GDeJ 530Gel? ®Gro Bc..:l @~25)JDe 2:5)lillC e ~ro25JBzm2:5)Gd' ? cvt) Z5)®JGro 8c..:lJGro 8c..:lJ 2:5)lillce ~ro25JBzm2:5)Gd'

a~ov2:5)~GDzm? cvt)

Bc..:lJGro 8c..:lJ? 6GW

Page 5 of 6

2S)® z€)"'J 8uZ5feZ5f 2S)®Z5f ~Z5fZi")J z:DJeC q;>ecc 2S)®Z5fem e"o®e"OJV @~Zi")JVC e,,~o~evCJ §.3u""J z€)""C? eve)

The evidence of the plaintiff on this matter was quite

unreliable to decide the issue relating to the applicability

of the Kandyan law. Although he claimed that his

grandfather lived in Bamunawala in terms of P2 his

father had resided at a place called BAMUNAULLA and

not at BAMUNAWALA as claimed by the plaintiff.

Taking into consideration the evidence of the plaintiff it

is hardly possible to come to a definite finding on a

balance of probability as to whether he in fact is

governed by Kandyan law. In the circumstances, I am of

the view that the impugned judgment merits no

interference by way of the exercise of appellate

jurisdiction. Hence this appeal is dismissed.

There shall be no costs.

~ .. Judge of the Court of Appeal

Kwk!-

Page 6 of 6