==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

lREPUBLIC OF SRI LA.NKA.

Court of Appeal Case No.

CA (PHC) 242/2005

HC Awissawella Revision APN:

HCRA2/03

MC Kaduwela : 18418

In the matter of an Appeal in terms

of Article 154 P (6)of the

Constitution of the Democratic

Socialist: Republic of Sri Lanka.

Officer-In-Charge (Crimes)

Police Station

Nowagamuwa.

Complainant

Hendha Hewa Sumanasiri,

127C,. New Kandy Road,

Kotalawala,

Kaduwela.

Virtual - COlnplainant

Vs.

1. Rambuggala Nahalle Arachchige

Don Sumeth Perera,

127C, New Kandy Road,

Kotalawala,

Kaduwela.

i!if

t

1 ,

II I

t

~ l j 1 i i I I .! i

2. Wijesinghe Vithanage,

27D, New Kandy Road,

KotaJ awala,

Kaduwela.

Ac:cused

Hendha Hewa Sumanasiri,

127C, New Kandy Road,

Kotalawala,

Kaduwela.

Vs.

1.

Virtual- C01nplainant

- JPetitioner

H on. Attorney genera!

The Attorney general's

Department.

2. Rambuggala Nahalle Arachchige

Don Sumeth Perera,

127C, New Kandy Road,

KotaJ awala,

Kaduwela.

3. Wije~iinghe Vithanage,

27D, New Kandy Road,

Kotalawala,

Kc:duwela.

2

1 I f I 4. Officer-In-Charge (Crimes) ~

~ ! Police Station I Nawagamuwa.

~ I Respondents , I ! Hendha Hewa Sumanasiri, ! I 127C, New Kandy Road, ! Kotalawala, I Kaduwela. I I

I Virtual- COltnplainant I - Petitioner - Appellant I I I I I ,Vs.

t, I I 1. Hon. Attorney general i,iI , The Attorney general's Ii

Department.

2. Ramhuggala Nahalle Arachchige

Don Sumeth Perera,

127C, New Kandy Road,

Kotalawala,

Kaduwela.

3. Wijesinghe Vithanage,

27D, New Kandy Road,

Kotalawala,

Kaduwela.

3

4. Officer-In-Charge (Crimes)

Polio~ Station

Nawagamuwa.

Respondent - Respondents

Before : W.M.M.M.alanie Gunarathn e, .r

: P.R.'Walgama, J

Counsel : B.A. Jayathilaka for the Virtual - Compllainant

- Petitioner - appellant.

: D.S. Saman De Silva for 2nd & 3rd Respondent.

: Anoopa De Silva, SSC for the JL st & 4th Rf~spondent.

Argued on : 04.03.2015

Decided on : 07.08.2015

CASE- NO- CA (PHC)-242j2005- JUDGMENT- 07.08.2015

P.R. Walgama, J

The Petitioner- Appellant lodged the instant appeal, against the

acquittal of the Accused by the Learned Magistrate in the

case bearing NO.18418 of the Magistrate Court Kaduwela, which

4 J!f,

order was up held by the Learned High Court, Judge of

Provincial High Court of Avissawella in the case bearing No,

2/2003.

The shortly stated facts as stated by the Appellant are as

follows;

The Officer in Charge of Nawagamuwa Police has instituted

t' . th M . t t Ct' t th ',)nd "n..l tho Q. .'>rd ac IOn In e agls ra e our. agams . P. _ r1 1I .....,

Accused- Respondents on a complai.nt made by the Virtual-

Complainant-Appellant, for having committed, the offence of being

members of an unlawful assembly to commit mischief to the

Appellant and thereby committing an offence punishable under

Section 147 of the Penal Code. In addition the Accused-

Respondents were charged for having committed an offence

punishable under Section 433, and 410 of the Penal Code.

Section 433

"Whoever commits criminal trespass shall be punished with

imprisonment of either description for a term which may

extend to one year, or with fine which may extend to one

thousand rupees, or with both"

5

...

-

Section 410

"Whoever commits mischief and thereby causes loss or damage

to the amount of fifty rupees or upwards shall be punished

with imprisonment of either description for a term which may

extend to two years, or with fine, or both."

The Accused- Respondents had pleaded not guilty to the afore

said charges, and after trial the Learned Magistrate has

acquitted and discharged the Accused -Respondents.

B . . d b th 'd d rl t d 00 1'J 'Jnn') f th cmg aggneve y e sal or er ... a e J.;&.'- ..... ;.1\.1 ... , 8~ •• c

Learned Magistrate, the Petitioner -Appellant has made an

application by way of Revision to the High Court of

Avissawella to have the said order set aside. The Learned High

Court Judge after the inquiry in the Revision Application made

order up holding the order of the Learned Magistrate and

dismissed the application of the Petitioner accordingly.

The Petitioner- Appellant had impugned the said order of the

Learned High Court Judge and preferred the instant appeal to

this Court to have said order of the High Court Judge set aside

in terms of lS4(p)(6) of the Constitution.

1

I

6 If

In the said inquiry in to the Revision application of the

Petitioner- Appellant, the stance of the 1st Respondent was

(Attorney General) that the Appellant cannot in terms of Section

318 of the Criminal Procedure Code, lodge an appeal against an

acquittal without the sanction of the Attorney General.

Section 318

/IAn appeal shall not lie from an acquittal by a Magistrate's

Court except at the instance or with the written sanction of

the Attorney- General."

I t is said that the Appellant should have appealed against the

said acquittal after 28 days with the permission of Attorney

General. In the instant matter the Appellant without first

exercising the right of appeal had invoked the Revisionary

jurisdiction of the Provincial High Court, for which the Respondent

has assailed.

The Learned High Court Judge has categorically stated that the

Petitioner has not averred special reasons to invoke the

Revisionary jurisdiction of the High (ourt, and besides has not

established that grave injustice has been caused to the

Petitioner.

7

f I i I I

In considering the judgment of the Learned Magistrate dated

09.12.2002 the Learned High Court Judge has adverted to the

fact that the manner in which the witnesses had adduced

evidence at the trial In deed it is crystal clear that there are

discrepancies in the testimony of the witnesses, for the

prosecution. In that it is stated that the Appellant has made a

complaint rather delay, and had failed:o mentioned the fact an

inmate of the house was subject to an assau;lt. Therefore the

Police had not recorded any statement from the victim.

Further it is salient to note, that none of the witnesses ~

indentified the accused as the assailants. The learned Magistrate

has specifically dealt with the testimony of the witnesses who

testified as to the alleged incident and was of ihe view lhal

they lack in testimonial trustworthiness and had arrived at

irresistible conclusion that the prosecution has failed to prove

the charges against the Accused- Respondents, beyond reasonable

doubt.

It is further alleged by the Appellant that the Learned

Magistrate has not dealt with the damages that was caused to

the roof of the house of the Appellant. But it is apparent that

the witness No. 5 the police officer who investigated in to the

alleged incident had visited the scene and his testimony was

that he saw the damage to the roof of the house only one

8

IIII iI

~ II

t

It

It

~l

I

! l

1

1 I 1 I J

month after the incident, as there wa~: a subsequent complaint

regarding the said damage.

It: is quite apparent that the Learned Magistrate in dealing with

the damages caused to the Appellant's house, has observed the

fact that in the original plaint the damage was estimated at

Rs. 45001 but in the amended plaint it is stated as Rs.

12,400 I, therefore the Learned Magistrate was of the view that

the Appellant's version is not trust worthy and had rejected

the same.

In addition, although it transpired that one Aruna Wasantha

Jagoda, was assaulted, in the alleged incident, was never called

by the prosecution to establish the alleged incident. In the

above setting the Learned Magistrate was compelled to acquit

and discharged the Accused- Respondents accordlngiy.

Being aggrieved by the said impugned judgment the Appellant,

made an application by way of revision to the Provincial High

Court of Avissawella to have the said judgment set aside or be

vacated.

The Learned High Court Judge, inquiring in to the said

Revision Application of the Petitioner - Appellant has basically

adverted to the Section 318 of the Criminal Procedure Code.

t! ft

lI!

~it

~

\

j I

lI

[

i

i

j I In the said order the Learned High Court Judge has made

reference to the case of WICKREMESINGHE .VS. FAY- 44. NLR-

368, which has stated thus;

"A heavy onus rests upon an applicant who moves to revise a

case, when the Attorney General has refused to sanction an

appeal. It is incumbent upon him to make out a strong case

amounting to positive miscarriage of justice in regard to either

the law or the Judge's appreciation of the facts,'"

Further in the case of OSSEN .VS. EXERCISE INSPECTOR

PONNIAH- 34 NLR- 50 has stated thus;

"~Nhere the Attorney·· General has refused to sanction an appeal,

the Supreme Court will hear the ,:ase in revision, if the

applicant makes out a strong case, amounting to a positive

miscarriage of justice, in regard to either th,~ law or the

Judges appreciation of facts".

At the very outset the Respondent has raised as a preliminary

issue whether the Appellant could maintain this revision

application without the sanction of the Attorney General, and

moved for a dismissal in limine. The Learned High Court Judge

10

by his order dated 31.05.2004 has over ruled the preliminary

objections, and had :fixed the matter for order on the merits.

Although the Learned High Court Judge made the said order, I

am of the view that the Appellant has not made out a strong

case of positive miscarriage of justice, as the Appellant has

failed to prove the charges aga:~nst the Accused beyond

reasonable doubt. In addition the Appellant has not sought the

permission of Attorney General, to appeal agaiil~t the ,~a.id

acquittal of the Accused by the Learned Magistrate.

In the above setting it is crystal dear that the Appellant has

not made out a strong case against the Accused either in law

or in exposition of facts.

In the instant appeal the Appellant sought to set aside the order

dated 28.09.200S made by the successor of the Learned High

Court Judge who made the order refusing the preliminary

objection.

The Learned High Court Judge by his order dated 28.09.2005

had made the following observations, to vit;

11

iII

t-l I

IIII

~ rJI

f , t i, , i!

\,

f

That the Appellant has, without exercising the right of appeal

by obtaining the sanction from the Attorney General, has

directly made the application by way of revision to have the

said order set aside, without establishing special circumstances

to invoke the Revisionary Jurisdiction of the Provincial High

Court. Further it is apparent that the Appellant has not

asserted the fact that a miscarriage of justice has occurred in

the circumstances, as stated above.

In addition the Learned. High Court Judge was of the view

that the Learned Magistrate has arrived at a correct finding, by

evaluating the material placed before him, and had affirmed the

order of the Learned Magistrate as stated above.

Being aggrieved by the said order of the Learned High Court

Judge the Appellant has preferred the instant appeal seeking to

vacate the same. For the reasons as stated above I am of the

view that the Learned Magistrate's order is in accordance with

the accepted law and the exposition of the fac:s stated above,

which has not proved the guilt of the Accused. As a result the

Learned Magistrate was compelled to acquit and dischaL'gcd

them from all charges.

The Learned High Court Judge being satisfied with the

determination of the Learned Magistrate and the Appellant's

12

I 1i

II ! ,! ! t If f IIt I,

t ! f It

failure to establish exceptional circumstances, in the application

in revision has dismissed the application of the Petitioner-

Appellant.

In the said back drop I see no reason to interfere with the

findings of the Learned Magistrate and the Learned High Court

Judge, thus I dismiss the Appeal, sU'oject to a cost of Rs.

iO,OOOj

Accordingly appeal is dismissed.

?-fC.~~ JUDGE or THE CO ~' APPEAL

W.M.M.Malanie Gunarathne) J

I agree,

JUDGE or THE COURT OF' APPEAL

13

I

I

~ ! \

f f

~ i

(

I I

~

[