==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I I ! I I I I i

t

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

R. A. Gaminie Attanayake

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

C.A. 03/2011

(H.C. Puttlam 146/2004)

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDENT

Indika Mallawarachchi for the Accused-Appellant

H.1. Peiris s.s.c. for the Complainant-Respondent

27.06.2014

04.08.2014

1

2

GOONERATNE J.

The Accused-Appellant was indicted in the High Court of Chillaw for

the murder of one Manathunge Arachchige Saman Chandrasiri Bandara on

05.03.2004. He was convicted on or about 18.01.2011. The prosecution case is

more or less based on circumstantial evidence i.e dying declaration and

Section 27 recovery in terms of the Evidence Ordinance. According to the

version of two main prosecution witnesses, we have noted the following.

Prosecution witness No.1 was at his residence between 7.00/8.00

p.m. on the day of the incident, when he heard a distress call or somebody

shouting tI®Oes>e» ~) ~" , (save me from getting murdered) from a

distance. The witness went in the direction of the voice shouting as above and

came from a distance of about 300 meters and noticed a push cycle toppled on

the road side. When the witness still heard cries which was from the jungle

area he went into the jungle and saw the deceased lying on the ground on a

pool of blood. He had spoken to the deceased uttered the words tlKumara

mata ketuwa", The witness carried the deceased to take him to the hospital

and at that point the deceased brother arrived at the scene and they took the

ti

Ii

3

deceased to the hospital. Witness No.2 also confirm he above inclusive of the

utterance of deceased which is a dying declaration, but witness No.2 brother

of the deceased testified that the deceased had come to his house and given

some biscuits to the witnesses' children at about 7.00 - 8.00 p.m. It is in

evidence which transpired from the prosecution witnesses that there were

others in the village who also had the name 'Kumara'. In fact this is an

important aspect relied upon by the defence, to create a doubt in the

prosecution case.

The learned counsel for the Accused-Appellant has urged the

following important matters on behalf of the defence.

1. Conviction is wholly unsafe in view of the uncertainty and ambiguity

attached to the dying declaration.

2. Learned trial Judge failed to address her mind to the contradictions-inter-se

between the police evidence which throws a serious doubt in the

prosecution case.

3. Learned trial Judge has misdirected herself on critical issues of facts causing

serious prejudice to the appellant.

4. Items of evidence are wholly inadequate to support the conviction

5. Learned trial Judge has shifted the burden of proof to the Appellant and

misapplied the Ellen Borough principle to the instant case.

f ! ! I

fIf

I I

j I I

4

The defence emphasis that there were several 'Kumaras' in the

village. Witness Chrishantha stated that he cannot say which 'Kumara' was

being mentioned by the deceased. Prosecution has failed to rule out all

others? In this way cannot point the finger of guilt towards the Accused, and

would be highly unsafe to act on the available dying declaration. Defence

counsel also submitted that considering the police version would make it more

improbable. 5.1. Aluthgamage stated that the deceased said "Miyellawe

Padinchi Kumara kaduwen ketuwa". (pg. 125). At pg. 131 same police witness

testified that Accused-appellant was arrested at his house in

Karuwalagaswewa Road Bogahawewa, Nawagaththegama. The other Police

Constable Wasantha Edirisinghe testified that Miyellawe and Bogahawewa are

two different villages situated in close proximity. Learned defence counsel

argues that the learned High Court Judge in evaluating the evidence relating to

the dying declaration has been totally oblivious to the fact that both

prosecution lay witnesses have testified that there are several 'Kumaras' in the

neighborhood and the dying declaration made to the police it was stated that

the Accused living in Miyellawe had attacked the deceased.

II

5

The other point stressed by learned defence counsel is on the

contradictions-inter-se of the police witness, 5.1. Aluthgamage , testified to the

dying declaration, whereas police officer Wasantha Srilal Edirisinghe who

accompanied 5.1. Aluthgamage testified that the environment was not

conducive to speak to the victim as was being treated by the medical team (pg.

154/155). This is a contradiction-inter-se along with the place of arrest which

suggest a difference which Miyellawe being connected to the Accused-

Appellant by the prosecution. Defence also point out to the fact of previous

enmity as observed by the trial Judge(pg. 220} and same being contrary to the

evidence of witness Dharmasiri, who testified about a cordial relationship pgs.

198, 100 & 106. Another misdirection is highlighted of the learned trial Judge

who states that the Appellant accosted the deceased where he was returning

home having visited one to his sister's house prior to the murder which is

totally unsupported by evidence.

The learned Senior State Counsel submitted that the prosecution

relies on the dying declaration of lay witness and the item of evidence as

regards the recovery of the weapon. He also referred to the admissions made

as regards the Government Analyst report.

•

7

unsafe. Especially not much reliance could be placed on the police evidence as

pointed out by the learned defence counsel. There are material contradictions-

inter-se between the police witnesses. In fact it is very much unsafe to rely on

the police witnesses, and I have no hesitation to accept the position put

forward by the learned defence counsel. It appears to this court that the trial

Judge has not properly examined the correct identity of the Accused person. It

is essential to ascertain correct identity especially when there are others with

the same name. Such a lapse cannot be cured by adding the section 27

statement to fortify the version of the two lay witnesses. In a long line of cases

the following matters had been considered before acting upon such utterences

of the deceased person. In CA 106/2002 decided on 22.8.2007, I note the

following weaknesses highlighted.

(1) Statement of deceased person not made on oath.

(2) Statement of deceased not tested on cross-examination. King Vs.

Asirivadan Nadar 52 NLR 32; Justice Pala Vs. Queen 66 NLR 409

(3) Person who made the declaration is not a witness at the trial.

Having perused the above Judgment I also note the following in same in

view 0 f the inherent weakness in a dying declaration and the trial Judge must

give very serious consideration to the following.

I I ,I

9

In all the above circumstances, when we consider the entirety of the

material placed before us, it has to be stated that it would be highly unsafe to

act on the available dying declaration, for the reasons stated above. Therefore

we set aside the conviction and sentence.

Appea I allowed.

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne J.

I agree.

" 0 G\)J~ 0~Z---

JWE ~F THE COURT OF APPEAL

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

f ! I