==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL

OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Asan Mohamad Rizwan Ketetenna, Kahawatta

Presently

At Welikada Prison

Accused-Petitioner

C.A. Revision No.CA [PHC] APN 141/2013

H.C.Ratnapura HC 25/2010 M.C.Pelmadulla Case No.33332

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS

DECIDED ON

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

Complainant-Respondent

K. T.CHITRASIRI, J.

MALINI GUNARATNE, J.

D.Kularatne for the Accused-Petitioner

Miss. Ayesha.Jinasena D.S.G. for the Complainant-Respondent

04.08.2014.05.08.2014 & 05.09.2015

08.11.2014 by the Accused-Appellant

02.02.2015 by the Complainant-Respondent

25.03.2015

1

1 I I I i

~ t 1 " l

~ 1 1 I I

j t I I I

l 1 1 \

r

CHITRASIRI. J.

Accused-Petitioner (hereinafter referred to as the accused) was convicted by

the learned High Court Judge of Ratnapura upon pleading guilty for committing

culpable homicide not amounting to murder, punishable under Section 297 of

the Penal Code. Accordingly, the accused was sentenced to twelve (12) years

rigorous imprisonment with a fine of Rupees Five Hundred (Rs.500 / -) carrying a

default sentence that runs for a period of one (01) month.

Being aggrieved by the aforesaid conviction and the sentence, the accused

filed this revision application seeking inter alia to set aside both the conviction

and the sentence. However, when this matter was taken up for argument on

04.08.2014, learned Counsel for the petitioner submitted that the petitioner was

not pursuing the relief sought to have the conviction set aside. Accordingly, the

petitioner restricted his reliefs to the relief mentioned in paragraph (d) referred to

in the prayer to the petition. Therefore, this application was taken up for

argument restricting it to the sentence imposed by the learned High Court Judge

on 02.04.2013.

The very first argument advanced by the learned Counsel for the petitioner

III this connection was that it was incorrect to have imposed twelve (12) year

imprisonment on the accused since the particular provision of law provides only

to impose a maximum of ten (10) year imprisonment. This argument was

advanced stating that the applicable law in this instance was the second limb

referred to in Section 297 of the Penal Code.

2

Section 297 of the Penal Code stipulates thus:

((Whoever commits culpable homicide not amounting to murder shall

be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which

may extend to twenty years, and shall also be liable to fine, if the

act by which the death is caused is done with the intention of

causing death, or of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause

death;

or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may

extend to ten years, or with fine, or with both, if the act is done

with the knowledge that it is likely to cause death, but without any

intention to cause death, or to cause such bodily injury as is likely to

cause death. "

[emphasis added]

In order to apply the law referred to above, it is necessary to ascertain

whether the offender had the intention of causing death or whether he/she had

only the knowledge in committing the said offence. Intention, as opposed to the

knowledge of a person, can be determined only upon considering the

circumstances of each case. If the circumstances of a particular incident show

that there had been intention to kill, then the sentence extends up to 20 years of

imprisonment, while the punishment is restricted to ten years of imprisonment if

the offender had only the knowledge as to the consequences of the wrongful act of

the accused.

3

Then the issue is to determine whether or not the accused had the

intention of causing the death or he had only the knowledge as to the

consequences. This can be ascertained basically by looking at the prior conduct

of the offender as well as the other circumstances of the case. Learned High

Court Judge, having referred to the dying declaration of the deceased which had

been made to her mother and to her brother and also to the circumstances that

preceded the incident, has decided that the accused committed the crime

intentionally. Dying declaration recorded by Police had been produced in evidence

by the Court Interpreter at the non-summery proceedings and in that it is stated

that the accused having poured kerosene had set fire. The relevant part of that

statement reads thus:

"®®af ~ qzS~g@o!.DO ~Cicl oafo!.DaOc) q)C»). ~ ~o!.D qO)O~O~ tJ,C) ®C) Q5C») ~C)Ci<3f

aOZ~C) @)SaCiO)@ qZe)C) Q@) G3~ Cio(j5c~o!.D G3~ 6)~Q)) ~C@) aC) tl)@o!.D (5.)~@

cl~)o!.DO) ~~o!.D) Q5C»). aC) oOCid ~C)® <g>dsaO»)Ci@C) ~cltl) q)C») Q5C»)."

[vide at page 91 in the appeal brief]

Observations of the learned High Court Judge in this regard are as follows:

"~~o)CiG5 oa Q)cn tl)@)OC C6tl)) Q)@o!.D 5C) 5Ci(3)~CiCo!.D O)® ~a( CiOj~@(5.)O)

tl)O B5c ~ ~C)Bo!.D sC)~®, ~a( Q)z@®C) Ciof~@C) Cio!.D)oz®iSil® C6tl)) Q)@o!.D 5C) ~~O)

5Bo!.D ~Ci@C Cio!.D)~O®C) CiC55~C) oz~z~@ tl)O Cio!.D)®ZO). ~CiO Cio!.D)C)o!.Do!.DC) ~o!.Dl®

C)CJ)O®€) ®~~l)Cic)cl O)® ~a(CiG5 ~Ooc G3fSO (5.)o!.Do!.D) qC)OO)Ci~~ ~C) ~C») ~®®C) 9Q)@

Gafc~)ccl (5.)~ qzO). ~Ci~af ~~O) ~C)zo!.Do!.Dcl tl)6 Q)C)C) oC»)ao!.D C)cl~tl)OZC)o!.DCiG5

c)cli ®~o!.D qo!.D)C)O®€)C) Cio!.D)Ci~. ~ q~ ~a q.aJ as ~ m~ qf)l(9 ~.

a~" ~ S&. ~ qf)l(9 Ci(9Q .?i~ a>e (5)z&."

4

S(6c g ~.!D ( (i®® ~~aJ ~~(iG5 ®~oai (itl))C)ocl o®~ ®o50zai O).!DC t530®C)

(3)(i~ai ~(i(3»)C)C) (i(3»)O qzC) qaJo, ~5C) ®O~tl))aC .!Dzt)aJ ~~aJC) Oz®(i~.!D (i@O

~aigt) ( w~ oz®~ .!DzaJ. oat) ®O~tl))aC ~~aJ(iG5 dO(3)® ~Otl)O.!DcC) ~Otl)O.!D

o~gC)ccl (i(3).!D .!Dzt)aJ ~.!D (i@oC) alz~ t)z~ qzaJ. ~ ~E)CX) o~4i e>® ~a

®OMal)OQC) o~ ~ qp I® E)zg@ ogC) qp8Gf ~Q() ~e E)akDO <i54i az@}

Q)f)d Q. ~~aJ(iG5 (iO)@ScC) tl)0.!D @( 9tl))(~(icai ~® OO)t)oc 9C)cl(i~o tl)0.!D @(

qaJo, ~~ ot)oai(iai ®O~tl))aC 5Sai G3~ aJal) (3)05 alt)c. (i®® oo)t)ocai (i(tl)

~t53(i.!Dtl)C) oodoo Oo)t)ocai (i~. ~(i3)o5 q6tl)0~c ~~aJ(iG5 SOz(i6 C)~ Sgd8l!)

~t))@ ol!)alaiC)(icai (iOO (clt).!D @( q(3)O ®aJ ~'(aJ(iG5 Oo)t)oc (i®® q6tl)0~c

9C)cl(i=o tl)0C3."

(emphasis added) (Vide at pages 42 and 43 in the appeal brief)

Having considered the contents of the dying depositions referred to above

and the other circumstances relevant to the issue, the learned High Court

Judge seemed to have come to the conclusion that the deceased killed his wife

intentionally by pouring kerosene on her body and allowed to set ablaze.

At the time of the incident there was nobody at the place where the

incident took place other than the accused and the deceased. It had happened

in the house where both of them were residing as the husband and the wife.

Learned High Court Judge has observed that the accused could have easily

prevented the death of the deceased particularly because she was his wife, if he

had no intention to kill her. I do not see any wrong in his observations.

Moreover, the accused should have cried for assistance and taken some

precautionary measures to save her. In the circumstances, it is my opinion

5

I i ! I

~ I ! ! i I I l I I "j I I ! I

~ j 1 j I

~ ! ! i

1

.1

I

1 I I ! l

that the learned High Court Judge has correctly sentenced the accused having

come to the conclusion that the particular offence comes under the first limb of

Section 297 of the Penal Code. Accordingly, I do not agree with the contention

of the learned Counsel that it should fall within the second limb referred to in

Section 297 of the Penal Code.

Learned Counsel for the petitioner then contended that the sentence is

excessive. He also submitted that the learned High Court Judge has not

properly evaluated the factors such as tendering a plea, the age and the good

character of the accused that were brought to the notice of Court in mitigation

of the sentence.

Sentencing IS an important aspect in the administration of criminal

justice system. A sentence ranges from death penalty to the mere censure in

the form of good behavior bond or probation. There are multiple considerations

relevant to the determination of a sentence. The most important consideration

is the seriousness of the crime. Jurisprudentially, this position is persuasive

despite pragmatic difficulties associated with matching the harshness of the

sanction to the severity of the crime. l

The judges are to pass lawful and appropriate sentence upon the

accused being convicted. In doing so, judges are to address their minds to the

objective of sentencing particularly when exercising the discretion given to

them under the law. Then only a correct sentence could be passed upon a

I San Diego Law Review Vol.51 No.2 Spring 2014 page 343 - Article by Mirko Bagaric Dean & Professor of Law Deaking University, Melbourne

6

i !

I 1 J J I I I 1 1 I ! i I I

~ i 1 I 1 I I 1 I 1 1

1

I I

1 1 I I I l j j I j 1

1 I I !

1 i ,

! t

convicted accused. If not, criticism on lack of uniformity, consistency and

transparency in imposing sentences are bound to surface. Therefore, it is

necessary for the judges to keep in mind the objectives of sentencing and also

the sentencing guidelines, in order to arrive at the correct and appropriate

decision.

Objectives of sentencing include the following:

(i) To punish offenders to an extent and in a manner, which is

just in all the circumstances;

(ii) To protect the community from offender;

(iii) To deter offenders or other persons from committing offences

of the same or similar nature;

(iv) To establish conditions so that rehabilitation of offenders

may be promoted or facilitated;

(v) To signify that the court and the community denounce the

commission of such offences;

(vi) To maintain the required standards of societal expectations

in making decisions;

(vii) To prevent overcrowding prisons also could be considered as

one such objective particularly when it comes to developing

countries such as ours.

Keeping those objectives in mind, it is the pnme duty of the judges to

pass the sentence in accordance with the law. Hence, it is necessary for the

7

Court to first look at the particular punishment stipulated for the offence that

was committed by the accused. Therefore, the judges must be mindful of the

provisions of law for which the accused is convicted before passing the

sentence. Otherwise, it will be an illegal order.

At the same time, there are other statutory provisions that are applicable

when sentencing a convicted person. One such provision is Section 303 of the

Code of Criminal Procedure Act. Indeed, the Legislature, by enacting the Code

of Criminal Procedure (Amendment) Act, No. 47 of 1999 has introduced the

manner in which the sentence is to be determined and the way the sentence is

to be suspended. In that Section 303, the matters that are to be considered

before passing the sentence are stipulated. Those matters are as follows:

303. (1)

(a) The maximum penalty prescribed for the offence in respect of which

the sentence is imposed

(b) The nature and gravity of the offence

(c)The offender'S culpability and degree of responsibility for the offence

(d)The offender'S previous character

(e)Any injury, loss or damage resulting directly from the commission of

the offence

(f)The presence of any aggravating or mitigating factor concerning the

offender

(g)The need to punish the offender to an extent in a manner, which is

just in all circumstances

8

I I I I

~

~ -,

1 ] i i ]

:1

J I I

t i ! I ! , I I

~ i

1 I i j I I I I , i

1 I 1

1 t 1 j'

(h) The need to deter the offender or other persons from committing

offences of the same or of a similar character

(i) The need to manifest the denunciation by the court of the type of

conduct in which the offender was engaged in

(j)The need to protect the victim or the community from the offender

(k)The fact that the person accused of the offence pleaded guilty to the

offence and such person is sincerely and truly repentant; or

(I)A combination of two or more of the above

The same Section 303 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act refers to the

instances where a sentence of imprisonment cannot be suspended. Those are

as follows:

(a) A mandatory minimum sentence of imprisonment has been

prescribed by law for the offence in respect of which the sentence is

imposed; or

(b) The offender is serving, or is yet to serve, a tenn of imprisonment

that has not been suspended; or

(c) The offence was committed when the offender was subject to a

probation order or a conditional release or discharge; or

(d) The tenn of imprisonment imposed, or the aggregate tenns of

imprisonment where the offender is convicted for more than one

offence in the same proceedings, exceeds two years

Having referred to the importance of looking at the available statutory

provisions, I will now advert to the other aspects that are necessary to consider

before a sentence is determined. Those can be categorized as follows:

9

(a) The maximum and the minimum (if any) penalty prescribed for

the offence;

(b) The nature and gravity/seriousness of the particular offence.

(c) The offender's culpability and degree of his/her responsibility

for the offence

(d) mental state of the accused at the time the offence was

committed;

(e) Evidence as to pre-arrangement for the commission of the

offence;

(f) The impact of the offence on any victim and the injury, loss or

damage caused as a result of the offence committed;

(g) Whether the offender pleaded guilty to the offence and if so, the

stage in the proceedings at which the offender did so or the

stage at which it was indicated;

(h) The conduct of the offender during the trial as an indication of

remorse or the lack of remorse;

(i) Any action taken by the offender to make restitution of the

injury, loss or damage arising from the offence, including his or

her willingness to comply with any order for restitution that a

court may consider. m The offender's previous character, good or bad;

(k) Imprisonment should be used when no other sentence IS

adequate;

(1) Proportionality between the crime and the sentence;

(m) Possibility of reforming the offender;

(n) To ensure consistency in deciding sentences;

(0) Presence of any aggravating or mitigating factors concerning the

offender or any other circumstance relevant to the commission

of the offence; and

10

At this stage, it is necessary to note that the purpose of looking at the

matters referred to last, namely, consideration of aggravating and mitigating

factors may not yield its expected results unless the court decides first, on a

starting point within the prescribed punishment. A mere statement to say

that the court has considered aggravating and/or mitigating factors will

generate only criticism as to how the judicial discretion is exercised.

I am fully aware of the practical difficulties that may come up in doing so

in our jurisdiction especially due to the volume of work, the judges are loaded

with. Nevertheless, such a system would prevent complaints being made

particularly on appeal as to the non consideration of relevant factors on the

sentence. Moreover, it will ensure transparency of the manner in which a

sentence is passed. That also will help ensuring the uniformity in sentencing

through by courts for similar offences. Also, it assists judges to exercise their

discretion in a judicious manner when imposing sentences. Above all, it will be

a valid reason to promote public confidence in the criminal justice system.

Therefore, it is prudent to adopt such a system namely to consider mitigating

and aggravating factors after deciding on a starting point, at least when it

comes to the indictable offences that are being tried in the High Court.

Starting point referred to above could be determined basically upon

considering the seriousness of the crime and the circumstances under which

the particular offence is committed. Therefore, it is the duty of the trial Judge

11

1 I 1 1 I I I 1 i

j

>

to consider those facts carefully and then to arnve at the starting point.

Thereafter, it is the duty of the judge to come down the period after considering

the mitigating factors and then to increase it from that point after looking at

the aggravating factors or vise versa. Then the judge is in a position to come to

the correct sentence that he is to pass on the accused convicted.

Having stated the manner in which sentence is to be determined, I will

now turn to consider the authorities relevant to the issue. In the case of the

Attorney General V. Mendis2 , Gunesekara J has held that no trial judge should

permit and encourage a situation where the accused attempts to dictate or

indicate what sentence he should get or what sentence he expects. As far as

the decisions relevant to the issue is concerned, it must be noted that the

learned Deputy Solicitor General Miss. Ayesha Jinasena has taken immense

pain to enlighten this Court by referring to various guide line judgments that

are available in Sri Lanka as well as in other jurisdictions. I thought it fit to cite

a few of those that she has submitted as it will be of much assistance for the

judges and for the counsel in determining sentences.

Those authorities are as follows:

JUDGEMENT RATIO DECIDENDI

FROM INDIA

Ravji -v- State of Rajasthan It is the nature and gravity of the crime and not

2 1995(1) S L R 138

12

1 ! I

i j 1 1 i I I I I I I

(1996) 2 SCC 175

Dhananjoy Chatterjee -v- State ofW.B.

(1994) 2 SCC 220

the criminal which are germane for

consideration of appropriate punishments in a

criminal trial.

The court will be failing in its duty if

appropriate punishment is not awarded for a

crime which has been committed not only

against the individual victim but also against the

society to which the criminal and victim belong.

The punishment to be awarded for a crime

must not be irrelevant but it should conform to

and be consistent with the atrocity and brutality

with which the crime has been perpetrated, the

enormity of the crime warranting public

abhorrence and it should 'respond to the

society's cry for justice against the criminal'. If

for an extremely heinous crime of murder

perpetrated in a very brutal manner without any

provocation, the most deterrent punishment is

not given, the case of deterrent punishment will

lose its relevance

The imposition of appropriate punishment is

the manner in which the Court responds to the

society'S cry for justice against the criminal.

Justice demands that Court should impose

punishment befitting the crime so that the

Courts reflect public abhorrence of the crime.

The court must not only keep in view the rights

of the criminal but also the rights of the victim

of the crime and the society at large while

considering the imposition of appropriate

punishment.

13

;

1 \ j '? l I I

Sevaka Perumal etc -v- State of Tamil Nadu

AIR 1991 se 1463

Mahesh -v- State of M.P.

(1987) 2 SeR 710

State of Karnataka -v- Krishnappa (2000) 4 sec 75

Undue sympathy to impose inadequate

sentence would do more harm to the justice

system to undermine the public confidence in

the efficacy of law and society could not long

endure under such serious threats. It is

therefore the duty of every court to award

proper sentence having regard to the nature of

the offence and the manner in which it was

executed or committed etc

[in refusing to reduce the death sentence

observed]

It will be a mockery of justice to permit the

accused to escape the extreme penalty of law

when faced with such evidence and such cruel

acts. To give the lesser punishment for the

Appellants would be to render the justice

system of the country 'suspect'. The common

man will lose faith in courts. In such cases, he

understands and appreciates the language of

deterrence more than the reformative jargon.

The reasons that the accused an unsophisticated and illiterate citizen belongs to the weaker section of the society, that he was a chronic addict to drinking and had committed rape of a girl where the state of 'intoxication' and that his family comprise of a old mother, wife and children depends upon him. These reasons are neither special nor adequate. The measure of punishment in the wake of rape cannot depend upon the social status of the convicts or the accused. It must depend upon the conduct of the accused, the state and age of the sexually assaulted female and the gravity of the criminal act.

The crimes of violence upon women needs to be severally dealt with

14

i

!

tf!I

I I j

i 'I !

1 i

I I I I I

J I

f

1 i , I t J .i

~ I

I I !

\ ,

l I \

State of Punjab -v- Prem Sagar see P 553, paras 5-8

FROM THE UNITED KINGDOM

Regina -v- Roberts (Hugh)

Regina -v- Roberts (Thomas)

(1982) 1 WLR 133

Regina -v- Billam and Others

(1986) 1 WLR 349

Reg -v- Taylor

(1983) 5 Cr.App. R.(S) 241

Hodgson

(1967) 52 Cr. App R. 113

The social economic status, religion, race,

caste or creed of the accused or the victims

is irrelevant consideration in sentencing

policy.

There are certain ~flences which touch our socialfabric.

We must remind oune/zles that ellen while introdudng

the doctrine ~/plea ba'l!,aining in the Code ~lCrimillal

Procedure, certain types ~lriflences had been kept out of

the pun,iew there~lwhile imposing sentenceJ. The said

principles should be borne in mind. A sentence is

judgment on conlliction ~f a crime. It is resorted to ajier

a pm-on is (omicted ~lthe riflence. It iJ the ultimate goal if a'!) justice-delillery ~ystem.

Rape being a serious crime an immediate

custodial sentence is called for, other than in

wholly exceptional circumstances, to mark the

gravity of the offence, to emphasize public

disapproval, to serve as a warning to others, to

punish the offender and to protect women.

Making an order appropriate to the

circumstances in each case, that while judges in

rape cases required no reminder of the need to

impose custodial sentences, statistics revealed

that sentences in such cases were too low.

Exceptional circumstances in which a non

custodial sentence may be appropriate are

illustrated

When the following conditions are satisfied, a

sentence of life imprisonment in the opinion of

Court was justified;

15

I j ! J J I ; I i I I

Chapman

[2000] 1 Cr App R. (S) 377

FROM SRI LANKA

Attorney General-v- Sampath

(1997) 3 SLR 390

Bandara -v- Republic of Sri Lanka

(a) where the offence or offences are in

themselves grave enough to require a

very long sentence

(b) where it appears from the nature of the

offences or from the defendant's

history that he is a person of unstable

character likely to commit such

offences in the future

(c) where if the offences are committed

the consequences to others may be

specially injuries as in the case of sexual

offences or crimes of violence

Conflrmed the above stance taken by Court in

Hodgson's case

The trial judge having imposed a term of 3

years RI could not have in law directed that the

period spent in remand by the accused-

respondent should be taken into consideration

as a part of the period of the sentence that he

had served.

To deliver a message to all those who have no

16

I

t

1 I

(2002) 2 SLR 277

AG -v- Gunarathna and others

(1995) 2 SLR 240

Sajeewa alias Ukkuwa and Others -v- AG

(2004) 2 SLR 263

A G -v - Ranasinghe

(1993) 2 SLR 81

respect for other persons right to life and

property

[court acted in terms of section 336 of the CPC

and enhanced the sentence]

The High Court judge has not given any reason

for imposing only a suspended term of imprisonment. On the basis of the facts relevant, the offence calls for the imposition of a custodial sentence

Although the Petition of Appeal has not prayed for the imposition of a fine, the Court of Appeal has the jurisdiction to impose a sentence which is commensurate with the offence In most offences the 1 st offender should receive some kind of mitigation of sentence ..... however, if an accused is found guilty for a heinous crime, ie gang rape, there is no reason for mitigation of his sentence. Rape is a heinous crime and calls for an immediate custodial sentence. An offence of rape calls for an immediate custodial sentence. In a contested case of rape, a figure of 5 years should be taken as the starting point of the sentence subject to aggravating or mitigating circumstances. Reasons are;

1. To mark the gravity of the offence 2. To emphasize public disapproval 3. To serve as a warning to others 4. To punish the offender 5. To protect women

Aggravating factors;

17

1. Use of violence over and above force necessary to commit rape 2. Use of weapon to frighten or wound victim 3. Repeating acts of rape 4. Careful planning of rape 5. Previous conviction for rape or other offences of a sexual kind 6. Extreme youth or old age of victim 7. Effect upon victim, phj'Sical or mental

1 l

J I I

1 I I

AG -vs- Hewa Welirnunige Gunasena CA(PHC) APN 110/2012

Decided on 12/2/2014

King -v- Paulu Peiris 9S NLR 4S

Subjection of victim to further sexual indignities or perversions

2 years sentence suspended for 10 years on a grave child abuse is a very lenient sentence considering the beastliness of the crime.

When an offence of child abuse is proved, victims of tender age and innocent behavior the sentence of imprisonment should be imposed severely.

Held that the sentence imposed was not adequate for the purpose of preventing the commission of further offences by the accused.

Cases of indecent touching, threats by an older man on small girl seem to attract a custodial sentence.

The trial judge had failed to consider the facts of the case. The "ictim had been 12 years. The accused was 31 years older than the victim. The incident had taken place without the consent of

the victim. The accused's violent behavior and the gravity of the offence had not been duly considered

The trial judge had not addressed his mind properly to the specific guidelines listed under sec 303(1) (a) to (d), no specific reasons given in imposing a non custodial.

Accused sentenced for 7 years

Where a jury finds and accused guilty of culpable homicide on the ground that he has exceeded the right of private defence, a sentence of ten years may be regarded as having erred on the side of severity.

If however, he is found guilty of culpable homicide because he had lost his self-control by reason of grave and sudden provocation or because he inflicted the fatal injury in a sudden

18

) ! I I

I t 1 I

AG -s- Valikuntha Vasan

53 NLR 558

M.K.Fernando -v- the Queen 74 NLR 159

SG -vs- Kitnasamy 42 NLR 347

A G -vs- Mendis

(1995) 1 SLR 138

AG -v- Jinak Sri Uluwaduge and another

(1995) 1 SLR 157

fight, the sentence may be regarded as a proper one

An offender guilty of contempt of court should not be permitted to go unpunished merely because he acknowledges his offence and express regret. It is apparent such an offender shall not be dealt with sec 306 of the CPC

When a person is convicted of an offence of sec 317 of penal code, Sentence of imprisonment is mandatory

An accused person who used a knife should not be treated with leniency unless there are good grounds for so doing. 6 months of prison sentence was substituted instead of the fine originally imposed on the accused

Factors to be considered in sentencing;

1. gravity of the offence 2.punishment provided in the statute 3.punishment to be deterrent 4.effectiveness of the sentence 5.nature of the offence on which the offender has been found to be guilty on 6.difficulty in detection 7. nature of the loss to the victim 8.profit accrued to the accused in the event of non -detection 9.Point of view of the accused 10. the interest of the society 11.mechanism and manipulation resorted by the accused 12.the effect of committing the crime 13.persons who are affected by the crime 14. the ingenuity with which it has been committed 15. Involvement of others in committing the crune In determining the proper sentence, the judge should consider the gravity of the offence as it appears from the nature of the act itself and should have regard to the punishment provided in the Penal Code or other statute under which the offender is charged. He should also regard

19

I 1 I 1 I

I I I l ,

'l \

I

J

Don Percy Nanayakkara -v- The Republic

(1993) 1 SLR 71

Kasinathar Thangarasa -v- Sambonathe Tharronachari

46 NLR 283

AG -v- H.N. De Silva 57 NLR 121

M Gomes -v- W.V.D. Leelaratne

the effect of the punishment as a deterrent and consider to what extent it will be effective .

. . ... the opinion of the prosecutor as to what sentence should be imposed is irrelevant. The AG is not estopped in appeal from taking an entirely different stand on sentence from that taken by his representative who appeared in the High Court.

In assessing punishment the court has to consider the matter from the point of both the offender and the public. The accused who has held high public office and exercised extensive statutory powers has subverted the very basis of this confidence by his conduct in dishonestly showing favour to persons with whom he was acguainted.

Court should not take into consideration a previous conviction in imposing a sentence except where the court has to consider the applicability under specific law such as the Prevention of Crimes Ordinance otherwise it may operate punishing a man twice over for one offence

In determining the sentence, a judge should,

• Consider the gravity of the offence as it appears from the nature of the act itself • Should have regard to the punishment provided in the PC/statute under which he is charged • Should regard the effect of the punishment as a deterrent and consider to what extent it will be effective • If the offender held a position of trust or belonged to a service which enjoys the public confidence that must be taken into account in assessing the punishment • Difficulty in detection • Public welfare of the State outweighs the previous good character, antecedents and age of the offender

The provisions of sec 325 of the CPC [current

20

I

66 NLR 233 306] not applicable to grave offences; • 1\ judge in determining the proper sentence should fIrst consider the gravity of the offence as it appears from

the nature of the act itself. Should have regard to the punishment provided in the penal code or the statute under which he is charged

The Queen -v- H.G. Haramanis Accused who committed grave offences 58 NLR 228 deserves a long prison term

Jamel-v- Haniffa Given the fact the appellant disturbed and 8 NLR 35 attacked a sanitary inspector while on duty, he deserves a longer period of imf'risonment.

The King -v-s Edwin Points to consider; 47 NLR 575 • Extreme young age of the accused or an aged accused with a clean record • Good character • Previous animosity led to complaining & the failure of the police to take appropriate action which led to escalation of the situation

Thilakaratne -v- AG There is a disparity in the sentences passed on (1989) 2 SLR 191 the 1 st accused and those passed on the 2nJ and 3rJ accused. Generally speaking, uniformity in sentencing is desirable, but not where the facts and circumstances against each accused are different. The evidence in this case revealed that the 1 st accused was armed with a pistol fIred a shot with it, and then proceeded to cause extensive injuries with a knife on Semasinghe during the course of this robbery. Further, the 1 st accused has previous convictions. Therefore the court saw no reason to interfere with the sentences passed on the 1 st accused-appellant AG -v- Gunaratne and others The offence had been committed in respect of (1995) 2 SLR 240 public property - in broad day light - salaries to be paid to Government teachers and the money to supply free mid day meal to school children - two of the accused were police offIcers

HCJ failed to give reasons of imposing a

21

suspended term of imprisonment.

The offence calls for the imposition of a custodial sentence.

The authorities referred to above show the manner in which mitigating

and aggravating factors have been considered by courts. Having looked at those

authorities, I will now turn to consider whether the learned High Court Judge

is correct when he imposed a twelve year imprisonment on the accused in this

case. As mentioned hereinbefore in this judgment, the applicable provision of

law in this instance is the first limb of Section 297 of the Penal Code. Hence,

the punishment for the offence to which the accused was convicted ranges

from 10 to 20 years of imprisonment.

In Attorney General Vs. Ranasinghe & Others3 , the Court of Appeal has

referred to the decision in the case of Keith Billam4 in which the Lord Chief

Justice in a contested case of rape, a figure of five years imprisonment was

taken as the starting point and then considered the aggravating and the

mitigating circumstances to determine the sentence. Sarath Silva J. (as he was

then) has quoted the observations by Lord Chief Justice and it reads as follows:

"The crime should in any event be treated as aggravated by any of the

following factors: (1) violence is used over and above the force necessary to

3 I 993(2)Sri L.R.at page88

4 Keith SiIIam (1986) Vo\.82 Criminal Appeal Reports 347

22

I I I ! I .;

I I I 1 I , ! \ I

• commit the rape; (2) a weapon is used to frighten or wound the victim; (3)

Where anyone or more of these aggravating features are present, the sentence

should be substantially higher than the figure suggested as the starting point."

In the case at hand, the accused was convicted for an offence

punishable with imprisonment that ranges from 10 to 20 years. Having

considered the gravity of the offence and the circumstances under which the

incident has taken place, I decide that 15 years is the point that should be the

starting point to determine the period of sentence to be imposed on the

accused in this case. I am not inclined to deduct or enhance the sentence by

considering the mitigating and aggravating factors submitted by the parties at

this appeal stage since it is the duty of the trial judge to do so.

However, by looking at the sentence, it appears that the learned High

Court Judge has addressed his mind carefully to those mitigating and

aggravating factors. Particularly when looking at the 12 year imprisonment

that had been imposed when the stipulated sentence ranges from 10 to 20

years, it is abundantly clear that the learned High Court Judge has adequately

taken into consideration the mitigating factors in this instance.

Therefore, it is my considered opinion that twelve year imprisonment

imposed on the accused by the learned High Court Judge is not incorrect. In

the circumstances, I do not see any reason to interfere with the sentence

23

imposed on the accused in this instance. For the aforesaid reasons, this

application to revise the conviction and the sentence is refused. Accordingly,

this application is dismissed. No costs.

Application dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

MALINIE GUNARATNE, J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

24

I!IiI

~ ,