==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

C.A.No.662/99 (F)

D.C.Matale No.4467 /L.

Abdul Hameed Musthapha

ih Mile Post,

Madipola.

Plaintiff

Vs.

Lakshmi Letishiya Seneviratne

ih Mile Post,

Madipola.

Defendant

And Between

Lakshmi Letishiya Seneviratne

ih Mile Post

Madipola.

Defendant-Appellant

Vs.

Abdul Hameed Musthapha(deceased)

ih Mile Post

Madipola.

Plaintiff-Respondent

Before: A.W.A Salam, J.

Counsel: Athula Perera for the Defendant-Appellant and Shabry Haleemdeen

with Uditha Hiripitiya for the Plaintiff -Respondent.

Argued on: 24.01.2012.

Decided on: 31.05.2013.

A.W.A. Salam,J

The plaintiff- respondent (referred to in the rest of this judgement

as the "plaintiff') filed action against the defendant-appellant

(referred to in the like manner as the "defendant") seeking inter

alia a declaration of title to the land described in the schedule to

the plaint and for damages. The plaintiff averred that on a clear

chain of title he became the owner of the subject matter and the

defendant disputed his title without any legal justification. The

defendant in his answer pleaded that the 2 allotments of land

namely lot No's 325 and 326 referred to in the schedule to the

plaint were in the possession of her father from that year 1941 .

The father of the defendant is said to have died in the year 1962

and thereafter it had been possessed by his widow until 1991 in

which year she too passed away. The defendant further pleaded

that in the year 1988 the plaintiff pulled out the fence on the

northern boundary of lot 326 and upon a complaint being made to

the police proceedings were initiated under chapter VII of the

Primary Court Procedure Act and the possession of the said lots

were given to the defendant. In short, the defendant pleaded that

she had acquired a prescriptive title to the lands in question by

reason of her long and prescriptive possession.

The learned district judge after trial dismissed the prescriptive

claim of the defendant to the land in question and granted relief to

the plaintiff declaring him to be a eo-owner of the subject matter

of the action. This appeal has been preferred by the defendant

against the said judgement.

When the matter was taken up for argument the learned counsel

for the defendant confined himself only to the question of the

identity of the corpus. As he gave up the claim of prescription, I

too propose to confine myself only to the question of the identity

of the corpus.

lt is trite law that a eo-owner of an immovable property is entitled

to maintain an action for declaration of title against a trespasser.

This principle of law was rightly conceded by the learned counsel

for the defendant and therefore it does not become necessary to

delve into that question.

In the circumstances, the only question that arises for

consideration in this appeal is whether the plaintiff has

successfully established the identity of the corpus. Quite

remarkably, the defendant did not raise the question of the

identity of the corpus in his pleadings. He neither suggested any

issues touching upon the identity of the corpus. Further, in the

answer the defendant has admitted by necessary implication the

identity of the corpus as being the two allotments described in the

schedule to the plaint.

In paragraph 4 of the answer the defendant states in no uncertain

language that his father was in possession of the lots 325 and

326 in the final village plan. In paragraph 6 of the answer he

further states that until the year 1962 his father lived in a house

constructed by him on lots 325 and 326. This clearly shows that

the defendant has admitted in his pleadings the identity of the

corpus.

In a declaration of title or rei vindicatio action, if the subject matter

is admitted no further proof of the identity of the corpus is

required, for no party is burdened with adducing further proof of

an admitted fact. The hearing of an action commences, with the

parties stating the question of fact or law to be decided between

them in the form of issues, if they are so agreed. However, under

section 146(2), if no consensus is reached on that matter,

the court records the issues on which the right decision of the

case appears to depend. However, the CPC is silent as to

whether admissions arising from the pleadings should be

recorded at the commencement of the trial or at any other stage

as is usually done in the original court. Although the court does

not appear to be under a duty to record the admissions arising

from the pleadings, the inveterate practice of the courts

exercising original civil jurisdiction is to record the admissions at

the beginning of the trial or at any time before judgment, as and

when such admissions are agreed upon. The purpose of following

such a procedure, outside the CPC is to avoid unnecessary

repetitions and to facilitate the ascertainment of the facts admitted

in the pleadings before the pronouncement of the judgment, in

compliance of the requirements of Section 184 ( 1) of the Civil

Procedure Code. lt is to be noted that the Civil Procedure Code

emphasizes the need to establish only so much of the substantial

part of the case of a party, which is not admitted in his

opponent's pleadings. Explanation 2 to Section 150 of the CPC

is worded as follows ...

"The case enunciated must reasonably accord with the party's

pleadings, i.e., plaint or answer, as the case may be. And no

party can be allowed to make at the trial a case materially

different from that which he has placed on record, and which his

opponent is prepared to meet. And the facts to be established

must in the whole amount to, so much of the material part of his

case as is not admitted in his opponent's pleadings".

A perusal of Section 184 reveals that the admissions made in the

pleadings are important and useful in the preparation of the

judgment whether they are formally recorded or otherwise. Quite

significantly, in this case even though an admission regarding the

identity of the corpus had not been recorded, yet the admission

appearing in the pleadings as regards the identity of the corpus

cannot be ignored. As such the doctrine of estoppel and Section

150 are two firm absolute bars which stand in the way of the

defendant to challenge the identity of the corpus.

The importance of the admissions made in the pleadings was the

subject of emphasis in the case of A V Arnolis Vs Mrs Miriam

Lawrence CA (SC) application No 45/80 in which the plaintiff

sued the defendant for ejectment based on a contract of tenancy.

Dealing with the admissions made by the plaintiff and its impact

on the judgment His Lordship Soza, J stated as follows ...

Quote

"Section 184 of the Civil Procedure Code requires the court to act

on the admissions in the pleadings and on the evidence led

before it. lt must be borne in mind that the issues are framed on

the responsibility of the court only on material questions that are

in controversy and regarding which evidence to be led. Matters

that are admitted in the pleadings will not be raised in the

issues and no evidence need be led on them. What a party

must seek to establish by evidence is so much of the material

part of his case that is not admitted in his opponents pleadings" -

Unquote

(Emphasis is not that of Soza J)

As far as the plaintiffs case is concerned, the subject matter of

the action has been clearly identified in the plaint with the

schedule appended to it, giving the metes and bounds. The

plaintiff has further referred to the final village plan (FVP). The

defendant in his answer in paragraph 4 stated as follows ...

~60es5 ()eDes)6 ~@es5 Ses$63el)6o lfficn 80es5Gcl ~@J(30(3 C~~ecl

~~ (:fii63 0(3es)Jae G)e@ G)@ ~ed (:foel) 325 ~ 326 ~6~ ~ Gel)JOd

~el) Ses$63el)6oooj ScsJ aes) ~-~@ eeJ~~ SaeD 1941 ElO ~~63 S~ ~ ooa.

The above quoted paragraph clearly shows that the Defendant

has not raised the question of identify of the corpus in his

answer.

In addition to the above, the plaintiff has further identified the land

in question in reference to plan made by the Commissioner. The

Commissioner also gave evidence in the case. The evidence of

the Commissioner was much favourable the plaintiff as regards

the identity of the corpus.

Emerging from the above, the learned district judge could have

without any difficulty arrived at the conclusion that the defendant

has admitted the subject matter of the action by necessary

implication as being exactly what has been averred in the plaint.

Even if there be no such admission on the part of the defendant,

yet, on a perusal of the plaintiff's case alone, it is quite evident

that the identity of the corpus has been proved on a balance of

probability by the plaintiff as referred to above. Hence, the only

ground urged by the defendant in this appeal should necessarily

fail.

In the circumstances, I am of the view that the appeal preferred

by the defendant merits no favourable consideration. As such,

this appeal stands dismissed subject to costs.

~-·· Judge of the Court of Appeal

Vkg/-