==== BLOCKS ==== 

-1-

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Court of Appeal Case No. 87/2010 Anuradhapura H.C. No. 343/2005

BEFORE: Ani! Gooneratne, J. &

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne, J.

Counsel: Neranjan Jayasinghe

Malwanne Hewavitharanage

Samantha Pushpakumara No.19, Godawela Kiula Matale

Accused - Appellant

Vs.

The Hon. Attorney General Attorney General's Department Colombo 12

Respondent

for the Accused - Appellant

Dilan Ratnayake. SSC

for The Respondent

-2-

Argued on : 27.5.2014

Decided on: 31.10.2014

Malinie Gunaratne, J.

This is an appeal against the conviction and the sentence imposed on

the present Accused -Appellant by the learned High Court Judge of

Anuradhapura sitting without a jury.

The present Accused - Appellant was indicted in the High Court of Anuradhapura, on two counts.

( i) For causing the murder of Welage Rankira on the 28th May 2000

at Namalpura, an offence punishable under Section 296 of the

Penal Code.

(ii) For causing grievous hurt to one Rankirage Jayawickrama in the

same time, place and transaction, an offence punishable under

Section 317 of the Penal Code.

At the end of the trial, learned High Court Judge delivered her

judgment on the 04th of August 2010 finding the accused guilty on both

counts on the indictment and was sentenced to death on count one and in

respect of count two sentenced to a term of 5 years rigorous imprisonment.

The accused has preferred an appeal to this Court against the findings,

conviction and sentence pronounced and imposed on him by the learned High

Court Judge of Anuradhapura.

IfI

l1

-3-

In this case the accused was found guilty of murder on purely

circumstantial evidence. The material evidence in the case was given by

Rankirage Jayawickrama, a son of the deceased. According to the evidence

given by him, on this day, he and his family members had gone to the house

of his father to spend the night as a door in his house was broken by someone.

Although he had not seen this incident he had believed that the appellant had

done it as he had observed that the appellant was outside his house soon after

this incident. In order to repair the door and secure the house he had to return

to his house. He had come with his father the deceased.

On their way they met the accused and had told them that he wants to

show a card to the deceased which the appellant had claimed would allow him

to get any man or woman out of their house. As there was no light at the

scene of this incident, the deceased had asked the witness to bring a torch

from the house of his brother which was nearby. When he proceeded about

100 - 125 feet he had heard a sound of foot steps behind him. When he

turned the appellant had attacked him with a kathy. The witness fell down

and he was unconscious for a while. When he regained consciousness he saw

the injuries he had received and then he went to his brother's house and again

he lost consciousness. At the Anuradhapura hospital after two days he

regained consciousness and he came to know of his father's death. Evidence

of the witness is that he did not see who attacked the father. However, his

position is that it was only the deceased, appellant and he who were present

together throughout the incident.

I

1

1 ; .

-4-

Considering the submissions made on behalf of the appellant as well as

for the respondent, two main questions or issues have emerged which would

need closer examination. They could be listed as follows:-

(i) The entire case for the prosecution is relied on circumstantial

evidence;

(ii) Reliability of the evidence of prosecution witness (PW 1).

Firstly, I proceed to deal on the 2nd contention.

At the hearing of this appeal learned State Counsel invited to consider

first, the evidence led by the prosecution with regard to the 2nd count on the

indictment. In the oral and written submissions of learned State Counsel, it

has been stressed that the evidence as to the assault on witness Jayawickrama

(PW 1) has been both credible and uncontradicted. Learned State Counsel

contended during the course of the oral arguments the evidence of

Jayawickrama (PW 1) was not contested or assailed by the defence in any

way with regard to the assault on Jayawickrama. It is significant to note, the

evidence given by Jayawickrama (PW 1) has not been challenged or

impugned by the Counsel who had appeared for the accused, in cross

examination.

In Himachal Pradesh vs. Thaknar Dass 1993 2 CRI 1694, Misra C.J.

held: "Whenever a statement of fact made by a witness is not challenged in

cross-examination, it has to be concluded that the fact in question is not

disputed" .

1 l

I I I

-5-

In Motilal vs. State of Madya Pradesh 1990 CRI LJ No.: 125, held,

absence of cross examination of prosecution witness of certain facts leads to

the inference of admission of that fact.

In Edrick de Silva vs. Chandradasa de Silva 70 N.L.R. 169 at 170,

Justice H.N.G. Fernando observed "When there is ample opportunity to

contradict the evidence of a witness but is not impugned or assailed in cross-

examination, that is a special fact and feature to the case. It is a matter falling

within the definition of the word ''prove'' in Section 3 of the Evidence

Ordinance, and as Trial Judge of Court must necessarily take that fact into

consideration in adjudicating the issue before it".

Ajith Samarakoon vs. Attorney General 2004 2 SLR 209, Nandasena

vs. Attorney General 2007 1 SLR 225 and Gunasiri and two others vs.

Republic of Sri Lanka 2009 1 SLR has followed the same view.

On a perusal of the evidence given by Jayawickrama (PW 1), it is

important to note that the evidence transpired from him that it was only the

deceased, appellant and he who were present together throughout the incident

and regarding the assault on him was uncontradicted and uncontroverted and

only mere suggestions that were made by the Defence Counsel, that the

witness did not see who caused the fatal injuries to his father. The witness

consistently takes that position.

However, he consistently maintained that it was only the accused,

deceased and he who were present together throughout the incident. The

credibility of this witness has not been assailed throughout the cross-

examination of this witness. Hence, it is the position of the prosecution that

-6-

there is a strong item of circumstantial evidence against the appellant as he

was the person with whom the eye witness last saw the deceased alive.

The learned Counsel for the appellant contended that the identity of the

appellant had not been established by the prosecution. At the time of the

incident, Jayawickrama (PW 1), who knew the appellant had met him on the

road near a school and the appellant had asked the deceased where he was

going. The appellant wanted to show the deceased a card. (Vide pages 52 -

53). It is important to note with regard to the 2nd count, the identity of the

appellant was never questioned by the defence. At the Identification Parade

too, this witness had identified the appellant. This evidence was accepted

under Section 420 of the Criminal Procedure Code (Vide Page. 78). This

evidence had not been shaken by the defence at the trial. In the light of the

above evidence there is no question of the identity of the appellant.

Evidence of Jayawickrama (PW 1) has established the identity of the

appellant beyond reasonable doubt. Therefore I hold that the identity of the

appellant had been established beyond reasonable doubt and reject the

contention of the learned Counsel.

For the reasons enumerated, I hold that the trial judge's findings in

regard to credibility and testimonial trustworthiness of Jayawickrama (PW 1)

were justified.

The accused was found guilty of murder on purely circumstantial

evidence. Since the second issue that now arises for consideration is whether

the prosecution has placed circumstantial evidence to satisfy the Court to

support their case.

-7-

Circumstantial evidence is evidence of facts where the principal or the

disputed fact, or factum probandum could be inferred. In Chatuna vs. State of

Assam (1981) CRI. L.J. 166 describing circumstantial evidence, it was stated

that "Evidence proves or tend to prove the factum probandum indirectly by

means of certain inferences of deduction to be drawn from its existence or its

connection with other facts probantia it is called circumstantial evidence ".

In R. vs. Gunaratne (1946) 47 N.L.R 145, the Court of Criminal

Appeal cited with approval the following quote which suggested that despite

certain weaknesses, circumstantial evidence would afford sufficient proof of

the facts in issue. It was stated that,

"It has been said that circumstantial evidence is to be considered as a

chain and each piece of evidence as a link in the chain, but that is not so, for

then if anyone link broke, the chain would fall. It is more like the case of a

rope composed of several cords. One strand of the rope might be insufficient

to sustain the weight, but three stranded together may be quite sufficient

strength ".

If the prosecution seeks to prove a case purely on circumstantial

evidence, the prosecution must exclude the possibility that the proved facts

are consistent with the innocence of the accused. In the present case has the

prosecution excluded this probability?

The learned Counsel for the appellant contended that there is no

evidence either direct or circumstantial, as to the manner in which Welage

Rankira came to his death. He strenuously argued that on a consideration of

i! i

\

1 1 I ! j -8-

the evidence of Jayawickrama (PW 1), it cannot be established that the

appellant committed murder.

But the Respondent's position is, the prosecution has made a strong

prima facie case with regard to the 1 st count of murder based on

circumstantial evidence. The learned State Counsel made meaningful

submissions relating to certain circumstances that surfaced from the

prosecution evidence. He referred to the following facts namely,

(i) Jayawickrama's evidence has arrived at the conclusion

upholding the testimonial trustworthiness and credibility.

(ii) Accused was the last person with whom the deceased was seen

alive.

(iii) Recovery of the weapon (P 3) in terms of Section 27 of the

Evidence Ordinance.

(iv) With regard to the identity of the appellant there is no doubt.

(v) Judicial Medical Officer's evidence, with regard to the injuries of

Jayawickrama (PW 1).

These items create a case of a rope not with a single strand but of

several strands and I am of the view the prosecution has made a strong prima

facie case on that against the appellant. Evidence complete the chain of

events, and bring to light the murder responsible for the death of the deceased.

It is important to note, that the evidence placed before the court with

regard to the recovery of the weapon was not contested or challenged by the

defence in cross examination. Absence of cross examination of prosecution

II! [ 1

-9-

witness of certain important and relevant facts leads to the inference of

admission of that fact.

When a production recovered consequent to a statement made by an

accused, not only embrace the knowledge of the accused as to the item but

that it was evidence connecting him with the murder. In Nissanka vs. The

State (2001) 3 SLR 78, Kulatilake J. held "Hence in the attendance

circumstances of this case Section 27 statements P6, P7 and P9 consequent

to which productions marked P3, P4, P5 and PI were discovered not only

embrace the knowledge of the accused and as to these items being hidden in

the places from which they were detected but that it was evidence connecting

them with the murder".

Evidence pertaining to the discovery of the Kathy (P3) was deposed to

by Police Sergeant Sudesh Gamini. According to his evidence it was

discovered consequent upon the statement " .. ~ ... ;}\.') ~ ~ .... ,j ~ .. ~ ... . . S\~q ... UJ~.~.'?) ... :v.b3.~~ ... ~~~.u~~ .... y-:.v. .. ~~ ........ .

.. . .. . .. . ..... . . .... ... " (P5). On a careful perusal and examination of the

evidence led in the case pertaining to the recording of the statement of the

accused and the discovery of this item, I am satisfied that the police had

discovered the production (P3) consequent to the statement made by the

accused. Accordingly, recovery of P3 on Evidence Ordinance Section 27

statement has been proved against the appellant.

It is important to consider the medical evidence of this case. The

evidence of Dr. H.A. Karunatilake (PW 10) corroborate the evidence of

PW 1. His Medico Legal Report reflects the injuries ofPW 1. The Judicial i

I

-10-

Medical Officer who had carried out the post mortem of the deceased had

described seven cut injuries out of which injury No.1 (back of the head) No.

3 (left side of the forehead) and No.6 (deep cut injury penetrating the trachea)

were likely to cause the death of the deceased. Although there is no

conclusive proof that P3 was used in the attack, medical evidence has

confirmed that the injuries inflicted could have been caused with P3. Other

items of circumstantial evidence above complied with the medical evidence

formed a prima facie case for the prosecution and the available circumstantial

evidence which was of strong and compelling nature implicated the accused

on 1 st count of the indictment.

With all these damning evidence against the appellant the charges

including murder and causing grievous hurt, the appellant did not offer any

explanation with regard to any of the matters referred to above. Although

there cannot be a direction that the accused person must explain each and

every circumstance relied on by the prosecution and the fundamental

principle being that no person accused of a crime is bound to offer any

explanation of his conduct, there are permissible limitations in which it would

be necessary for a suspect to explain the circumstances of suspicion which are

attached to him.

In Prematilake vs. The Republic of Sri Lanka 75 NLR 506, held that a

conviction could be based upon the telling evidence of a mass of eloquent

circumstances remain unexplained by the accused, no reasonable judge could

have any verdict other than that of guilt. In Ariyasingha and others vs. The

Attorney General (2004) 2 SLR 357 held, when a prima facie case is tendered

I lt ,

1

-11-

against a person in the absence of a reasonable explanation pnma facie

evidence would become presumptive.

In this case when the appellant called for his defence, he had made a

short dock statement denying any knowledge about this murder. Perusal of

the dock statement reveal that no specific plea of evidence such as an alibi has

been raised by the appellant but only a brief blanket denial of involvement.

Dock statement is an unsworn statement lacking the probative value of formal

evidence tested and filtered through cross-examination, it is still evidence of

a lesser weight recognized in our law. However I am of the view that the

dock statement of the accused is insufficient to raise any doubt in the

prosecution case.

The Courts in Sri Lanka have applied the principle commonly known

as "Ellenborough Dictum" in Rex vs. Lord Cochrane, Gurneys Report 479.

The principle laid down in that case do not place a legal or a persuasive

evidence on the accused to prove that he committed no offence but this

decision on proof of a prima facie case and on proof of highly incriminating

circumstances when he had both the power and opportunity to do so. ( Ajith

Samarakoon vs. The Republic of Sri Lanka (2004) 2 SLR 209).

By applying the dictum of Lord Ellenborough, I am of the view, it was

obligatory on the accused to offer an explanation of the circumstances of

suspicion which are attached to him in this case. He has refrained from doing

so. Then it would justify the conclusion that the evidence so suppressed or

not adduced would operate adversely to his interests. (R. V s. Cochrane and

Others).

f I

1

-12-

In this case the prosecution has not proved any motive of the accused.

The motive which includes a man to do a particular act known to him and to

him alone. Therefore, the prosecution is not bound to prove a motive for the

offence to prove a charge.

When relying on circumstantial evidence to establish the charge of

murder, the proved items of circumstantial evidence when taken together

must irresistibly point towards the only inference that the accused committed

the offences. The prosecution has excluded the possibility that the proved

facts are consistent with the innocence of the accused.

On consideration of the judgment of the learned High Court Judge, it

seems to me that the circumstantial evidence has been judicially analysed and

evaluated by the learned High Court Judge and convicted the appellant for

both counts.

The Counsel for the appellant contended that there is no evidence either

direct or circumstantial as to the manner in which Welage Rankira came to his

death. He further contended that the prosecution had failed to prove that two

incidents had taken place in the course of the same transaction and at the

same time. Further contended it is doubtful that the injury caused to the

father had been caused by the accused appellant or someone else.

It is important to remember PW 1 in his evidence consistently

maintained that it was only the deceased, appellant and he who were present

together throughout the incident. The defence has failed under cross-

examination of this witness or by any other evidence to assail the credibility

of the witness. His evidence was un-contradicted and uncontroverted and had

Ir

. I ·

-13-

not been shaken by the defence at the trial. The evidence placed before the

Court with regard to the recovery of the weapon (P3) was not challenged and

contested. This item of evidence links the appellant to both counts.

Evidence with regard to the injuries of PW1, Medico Legal Report

corroborate his evidence. Both doctors opine that the injuries found on the

body of the deceased and PW 1, could have been caused by kathy marked as

P3. With all these damning evidence against the appellant, he did not offer

any explanation. Accordingly every reasonable hypothesis is inconsistent

with the innocence of the accused on both counts. Further, I am of the view

that the prosecution has established that the death of the deceased occurred in

the course of the same transaction. The learned Trial Judge in coming to

her conclusions has properly evaluated the evidence.

F or the aforementioned reasons I am of the view that there is no merit

in any of the grounds urged by learned Counsel on behalf of the appellant. I

therefore affirm the convictions and the sentences of the accused - appellant

and dismiss the appeal.

Appeal is dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne, J.

Anil Gooneratne, J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

I I I

[ I f l

I

t f I f

~ ! t ! l r

II

~ l I