==== BLOCKS ==== 

OIN THE COURT OF APPEAL

OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. [PHC] APN 82/14 [REVISION]

Shan Wijayalal de Silva Minister-In-Charge of the subjects of Finance, Planning, Law and Order, Local Government, Transport, Water Supply, Electricity, Indigence Medicine Chief Minister's Office Dakshinapaya Labuduwa, Akmeemana

1st Respondent-Petitioner

PHC GALLE NO.SP/HC/WRIT 03/13

Vs.

Narunna Guruge Methsiri Alexander de Silva No.184, Kanampitiya Road Galle

Petitioner-Respondent

2. Saman Darshana Panditakorala Former Commissioner of Local Government (Southern Province) C/o Commissioner of Local Government 6th Floor, District Secretariat Galle

2A.Chandima Muhandiram Commissioner of Local Government (Southern Province) C/o Commissioner of Local Government 6 th Floor, District Secretariat Galle.

3. Dileka Kudachchi Assistant Commissioner of Local Government

I!II

f

(Galle). The Office of the Commissioner of

Local Government, Galle

4. Veeranarayana Seneviratne Kelum Deputy Mayor Municipal Council of Galle Galle

5. Mohamed Husein Fauzil Niyas Former Deputy Mayor Member of Municipal Council Municipal Council of Galle Galle

6. Pusparani Edirisinghe Municipal Commissioner

Municipal Council of Galle Galle

7. Maduwage Amarasena Silva Retired Judicial Officer C/o Ministry of Local Government (Southern Province) No.lS, Lower Dikson Road Galle

8. M.N .Paththinige Senior Inquiring Officer The Office of the Commissioner of

Local Government (Southern Province) No.lS, 6 th Floor, District Secretariat Galle

9. H.G.Piyadasa Senior Inquiring Officer (Contract) The Office of the Commissioner of

Local Government (Southern Province) No.lS, 6th Floor, District Secretariat Galle

10. W.N.Rathnasiri Inquiring Officer The Office of the Commissioner of

Local Government (Southern Province) No.lS, 6 th Floor, District Secretariat Galle

2

BEFORE

COUNSEL

11. B.K.Anusha Chandani Inquiring Officer The Office of the Commissioner of

Local Government (Southern Province) No.lS, 6 th Floor, District Secretariat Galle

12. M.W.Manjula Perera Inquiring Officer The Office of the Commissioner of

Local Government (Southern Province) No.IS, 6th Floor, District Secretariat Galle

13. Municipal Council of Galle Galle

14. A.D.Susil Premajayantha The Secretary

United People's Freedom Alliance No.30 1, T.B.Jaya Mawatha Colombo 10

15. B.Lde.Silva The Returning Officer of the Municipal Council of Galle The Office of the Assistant Election

Commissioner, Galle

2nd to 15th Respondent-Respondents

K. T . CHITRASIRI , J.

MALINI GUNARATNE, J.

Faiz Musthapha, P.C. with MS.Machado for the 1 st Respondent -Peti tioner

Faiszer Musthapha,P,C. with P.Rupasinghe and Sarah Faizal for the Petitioner-Respondent

M.V.M.Ali Sabry, P.C. for the 2nd & 3rd Respondent- Respondents

3

1 I

1 I

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS

DECIDED ON

CHITRASIRI, J.

Chandimal Mendis with V.Vithanage for the 4th Respondent -Responden t

Ranga Dayananda for the 6th & 13th Respondent-Respondents

Ms. W. G .B,M. Weerasinghe for the 8th & 12th Respondent-Respondents

Janaka de Silva, D.S.G. for the 15th Respondent-Respondent

17.11.2014 & 01.12.2014

23.02.2015 by the 1st Respondent

13.02.2015 by 2A & 2B Respondent-Respondents

16.02.2015 by the 4th Respondent-Respondent

26.02.2015 by the 15th Respondent-Respondent

08. 05. 2015

Petitioner-Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the respondent) namely,

Methsiri Alexander de Silva assumed duties as the Mayor of the Municipal Council,

Galle on 03.12.2008. Whilst holding the office of the Mayor, he was subjected to an

inquiry in which he was charged on 16 counts under and in terms of Section 277 of

the Municipal Councils Ordinance. The said inquiry was held by the 7th respondent

and in the end of that inquiry, the respondent was found guilty for 12 charges. Upon

receiving the decision made by the 7th respondent, the 1st Respondent-Petitioner

4

(hereinafter referred to as the petitioner) who is the Minister in charge of the subject of

Local Government, published an order in the Gazette bearing No.1793/25 dated

19.01.2013 removing the petitioner from the office of the Mayor of Municipal Council,

Galle, in terms of Section 277(1) of the Municipal Councils Ordinance.

Being aggrieved by the said decision of the petitioner, the respondent filed a

Writ application in the High Court of Galle, seeking to quash the report and the

findings of the 7th respondent-respondent and the decision of the petitioner that was

published in the said Gazette bearing No.1 793/25 removing the respondent from the

office of the Mayor. Learned High Court Judge refused to quash the report of the 7th

respondent but issued a writ of certiorari quashing the decision referred to in Gazette

No/ 1793/25. Accordingly, the respondent was permitted to resume functioning as the

Mayor of the Galle Municipal Council. His findings in this regard are as follows:

"rg>~al Ci~02ai' ®al qQe o~cl~ooc ozE)zo;B® Ci~~ O~<3>al Cia))E)a) Q)E)C) &oooc

C)o~. ~ q~E) o~cl~oo E))~al)E) O®)Ci@JC>a)C C3~®C) qE)(3}2) Cia))E)a) qalO, tJr3> q)~E) Q)@

O~al C)o~ai' o~~CicJO)a ao q)~E)cl a;~o; C3~®C) rg>6@) qzOl rg>6@® gOlclCirtO C)O~

~zCi~."

[Vide at page 240 in the appeal brief]

" rg>~al E)<3>ai'&ai' o~cl~) C3~Ci®~ CiO,65 cai'Ciai' qQe a)<3>0 o(5»)Ci5 QOcai' rg>E)0; C3~®

Ci~J a)<3>0)500l QOCicai' rg>E)0; C3~® Ci~J C)e ~zclCicl qQe a)<3>0 o(5»)Ci5 C))@ 8®)E) 026~

o®oocl Q)E)c. ~ q~E) a)<3>0 O(5»)E) 5aozE)) ~z~Ci®ai' ogE) 00; tl)0~ @Q)a) a)<3>0 O(5»)E)

q~o; a)<3>0 o(5»)E)cl E)a) qalO, tJ® a)<3>0 O(5»)E)C) 00; E)a) C)@ai' a)<3>0 o(5»)Ci5 QOc qo;~C)~

5

1 I 1 J

[Vide at page 247 in the appeal brief]

Being aggrieved by the aforesaid decision of the learned High Court Judge, the

petitioner filed this revision application seeking to set aside the said order of the

learned High Court Judge by which he quashed the decision contained in the

aforesaid Gazette 1793/25 removing the respondent from the office of the Mayor.

Plain reading of the judgment of the learned High Court Judge, it seems that that he

has relied upon Section 325 (5) of the Municipal Council Ordinance when he issued

the writ of certiorari quashing the decision found in gazette 1793/25. Said Section

325 of the Municipal Council Ordinance does not consist five sub-sections. It ends

with sub-section 3. Moreover, said Section 325 refers to the manner in which the

Municipal Councils become successors to specific administrative areas that were

under the control of other Local Authorities. As such, I do not see any rational to have

relied upon Section 325(5) by the learned High Court Judge when he issued the writ

of certiorari quashing the decision of the petitioner. Hence, it is seen that such

reasoning of the learned High Court Judge is ex facie incorrect.

However, the learned High Court Judge has also considered the matters

contained in Section 277 of the Municipal Council Ordinance, when he issued the writ

6

of certiorari. Admittedly, removal of the Mayor by the petitioner had been under that

Section 277(1) (e) (i) of the Municipal Councils Ordinance. Said Section 277 refers to

the power of the Minister to dissolve the Council for matters referred to therein and

those include incompetency, mismanagement etc. Before removing the Mayor from

his office under the aforesaid sub section (1), the petitioner has followed the procedure

referred to in the remaining subsections referred to in Section 277 of the Municipal

Councils Ordinance. Therefore, it is to be noted that the petitioner has followed the

correct procedure before he published the gazette removing the petitioner from the

office of the Mayor.

Be that as it may, the issue that was argued before this Court was

whether or not the petitioner who is the Minister in charge of the subject was entitled

in law to remove the Mayor under Section 277 of the Municipal Council Ordinance

when he (the Mayor/respondent) had been re-elected to the same office for another

tenure of office, at the time the removal was published in the gazette.

The aforesaid Section 277(1) reads thus:-

(( If at any time the Minister is satisfied that there is sufficient proof of -

(a) incompetence and mismanagement; or (b) persistent default in the performance of the duties imposed by this

Ordinance or any other written law; or (c) persistent refusal or neglect to comply with any provisions of law; or (d) abuse of the powers conferred by this Ordinance or any other written

law; or (e) persistent refusal to hold or attend meetings or to vote or to transact

business at any time meeting to be held.

on the part of the Mayor, or on the part of any Municipal Council, or of any of the Councillors thereof the Minister may as the circumstances of each case may require by Order published in the Gazette -

7

(

(i) remove the Mayor from office; or (ii) remove all or any of the Councillors of the Council from office and the provisions of section 13(3) shall thereupon apply; or (iii) dissolve the Municipal Council

and such Order shall as soon as may be convenient be laid before Parliament".

Contention of the learned President's Counsel for the petitioner was that the

Minister in charge of the subject is empowered to remove the Mayor if he is found

guilty to the charges framed to establish matters referred to in Section 277 of the

Municipal Council Ordinance despite the fact that he had been re-elected to the office

of the Mayor for a another period subsequent to the period in which the alleged

incidents has taken place. He further contended that the fact that the responded

continuing to participate at the inquiry held against him while he was holding the

office of the Mayor for the second time also would be a reason for the Chief Minister to

act in terms of Section 277(1) of the Municipal Councils Ordinance.

On the other hand, learned President's Counsel for the respondent argued that

the removal under Section 277 can be made only during the period that the alleged

mismanagement etc. had taken place and those matters would come to an end with

the laps of that period in office held by the respondent as the Mayor. Accordingly, he

contended that the Minister is not empowered to act under that section when the

Mayor is re-elected for a period subsequent to the period during which the alleged

incidents had occurred. He also stressed of the importance of the franchise of the

people and submitted that it may equate to a subversion of the franchise in the event

this application of the petitioner is allowed disregarding his election to the office of the

8

t;

1

Mayor for the second time. Accordingly, learned President's Counsel for the

respondent moved that the petition be dismissed, affirming the decision of the learned

High Court Judge.

As mentioned hereinbefore the issue is whether or not the Minister in charge is

empowered to remove the Mayor acting upon Section 277 (1) of the Municipal Council

Ordinance when the alleged allegations had been taken place during the previous

tenure of office of the Mayor. Section 277 of the Municipal Councils Ordinance does

not specifically mention the period applicable, when making a decision under that

Section 277(1) of the Municipal Councils Ordinance. Neither has it restricted its

applicability for the period in which the alleged incidents have taken place. Then the

issue is whether the Minister is empowered to remove the Mayor from his / her office

under Section 277(1), during a period subsequent to the period in office in which the

allegations that were proved had taken place.

Admittedly, incidents upon which the inquiry had been held had occurred

during the first period in office of the respondent. The petitioner was declared elected

as the Mayor for the second time at the elections held in the month of October 2011.

Inquiry referred to above, held by the 7th respondent-respondent continued even

thereafter. Then only the 7th respondent-respondent presented his report dated

27.06.2012 to the petitioner. Consequently, the petitioner by a Gazette notification

bearing No.1793/23 dated 19.0l.2013 removed the Mayor from his office. (document

marked P31). Admittedly, the decision of the inquiring officer who is the 7th

9

respondent had been pronounced and delivered during the subsequent period in office

of the respondent.

However, the fact remains that the respondent has actively participated at the

inquiry held against him even after he was re-elected to the office of the Mayor. He

had done so without any objection had been raised at the time the inquiry was

pending before the 7th respondent who inquired into the allegations made against the

Mayor. Had he thought that he is entitled to be in the office due to the re-election, the

respondent should have informed that to the inquiring officer at that point of time

enabling the inquirer to take appropriate measures accordingly. It is more so since he

had been fully aware of the fact that he was subjected to an inquiry in relation to

matters alleged to have happened during his first tenure of office when he contested

for the elections for the second time.

Also, the respondent should have been aware of the consequences of the inquiry

as well, at the time he was elected as the Mayor for the second time. His continuous

participation at the inquiry even after assuming duties for the second time makes

both parties to think that they were subjected to the procedure referred to in Section

277 under which provision the inquiry had begun. Therefore, the respondent at this

late stage cannot claim that he cannot be subjected to a removal under that Section

277 of the Municipal Councils Ordinance. In the circumstances, it is my opinion that

the petitioner-respondent cannot claim that the respondent is not entitled to remove

him under Section 277 (1) of the Municipal Council Ordinance or rather he is

estopped from stating so.

10

Moreover, all the Counsel who appeared before this Court in this connection

without any hesitation highlighted the importance of good governance when it comes

to the exercising of public duties and functions cast upon the officials. This

phenomenon was endorsed and accepted by the Supreme Court as well and it is

evident by the following two decisions. In Sarath Ekanayake v. Sarath Dharma Siri

Bandara and others (S.C.Appeal No.85/2011, S.C.Minutes dated 10.09.2014) has

held as follows:

((1 am of the opinion that any interpretation of Section 185 (2) of the Pradeshiya

Sabha Act 15 of 1987 on the basis that the time period of three months is

mandatory, would defeat the intention of the Legislator who intended to ensure

good governance based on a transparent system".

In the judgment of the Waters Edge Case (Sugathapala Mendis and

others v. Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunge and others)

Tilakawardane, J citing Bandara v. Premachandra (1994) 1 SLR 301 has held

that:

((the State must in the public interest expect high standards of

efficiency and service from public officers in their dealings with the

administration and the public, in the exercise of constitutional and

statutory powers and jurisdiction and the judiciary must endeavour to

ensure that this expectation is realized. Tilakawardane J. went on to state

that this practice has to be upheld in the name of good governance and

economic development of the nation".

11

,

f I l

"Bindra's Interpretation of Statutes" also highlights the importance of

avoiding construction of statutes which would tend to make the statute unjust,

oppressive, unreasonable, absurd, mischievous or contrary to public interest. It

reads as follows:

«It is a well known principle of interpretation statutes that a construction

should be put upon a statutory provision which would lead to maintain

absurdity or futility, palpable injustice, or absurd inconvenience or

anomaly. To avoid absurdity or incongruity grammatical and ordinary

sense of the words can, in certain circumstances, be avoided. There is no

obligation on a court of law to construe a clause as would lead to a clear

absurdity which would not possibly be regarded as contemplated by the

legislating authority or agency. Since the basic and underlying purpose of

all legislation, at least in theory, is to promote justice, it would seem that

the effect of the statute should be of primary concern. If this is so, the

effect of a suggested construction is an important consideration and one

which the court should never neglect. As a result, the court should strive

avoid a construction which would tend to make the statute unjust,

oppressive, unreasonable, absurd, mischievous or contrary to public

interest. One should avoid construction which would result in absurdity

and give a harmonious construction so as to avoid making one provision of

the Act conflict with the other".

(10th Ed.Pg.275-6)

Hence, it is the duty of this Court to interpret Section 277 of the Municipal

Councils Ordinance to ensure public interest. Therefore, it is my view that the removal

of the respondent from the office of the Mayor under the aforesaid Section 277 shall

be valid even though the matters led to the said removal had been during the period

12

immediately before the period of his second tenure In office particularly to ensure

good governance.

At this stage, it is also pertinent to refer to Section 9(3) of the Local Authorities

Elections Ordinance as well, since a clear prohibition is found therein to become a

candidate to any Local Authority for the matters such as the removal in this instance,

for a period of five years from the date of a removal. The aforesaid provision of law

clearly shows that a person who is found guilty for an offence under the Municipal

Councils Ordinance is not entitled even to be elected as a Member of the Council.

Such a provision is brought into the Statute Book in order to prevent any person who

had been removed from the office being elected, basically to maintain good I

~ governance.

Therefore, the removal under Section 277 (1) of the Municipal Councils

Ordinance also is to be interpreted in the like manner. Therefore, it is not incorrect to

state that the re-election for the second time to the office of the Mayor will not prevent

the Minister in charge of the subject acting under Section 277 (1) of the Municipal

Councils Ordinance since such a provision help maintaining good governance as well.

For the aforesaid reasons, it is my opinion that the learned High Court

Judge misdirected himself when he decided to issue a writ of certiorari

quashing the decision of the petitioner, removing the respondent from his

office.

13

fI

For the reasons setout hereinbefore, the judgment of the learned High

Court Judge that quashed the decision of the petitioner contained in the

Gazette bearing No.1793/25 dated 19.01.2013 is set aside. Petitioner's

application for writ made in the High Court is dismissed. Accordingly, the order

made in the said Gazette notification bearing No.1793/25 dated 19.01.2013

shall prevail. This application is allowed without costs.

Appealed allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

MALINIE GUNARATNE, J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

14

I

f

II

I

r f