==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA No. 162/2007 H.C.(Kurunegala)No.19/04

M. Yasawathi M. Muthunayake

Appellants Vs. Hon. Attorney General Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

I I i ! I I

j l

1

1

1

CA No. 162/2007 H.C.(Kurunegale)No.19/04

Before Anil Gooneratne, J

H.C.J. Madawala, J

Counsel Rienzy Arsakularatne P.C. for the Accused -Appellant.

H.1. Pieris SSC for the State.

Argued &

Decided on 30.01.2015

Anil Gooneratne, J

The Honorable Attorney General indicted the above accused - appellant on two

counts. Count number one relates to conspiracy to commit the murder of M.

Chandralatha on 21.10.1997. Count two relates to the murder of M.

Chandralatha on the basis of common intention on the said date. According to

facts submitted to this court learned President Counsel emphasis that his

client, 15t accused-appellant, is the sister of the 2nd accused-appellant who has

already been acquitted by this court on 07.02.2013. The reasons is acquit the

said appellant is contained in order dated 07.02.2013. It is the position of the

learned President's counsel for the 15t accused -appellant, that there were no

eye witnesses. The 2nd accused - appellant was acquitted. The following facts

2

are submitted to this court which are not disputed by both learned counsel. It

was strongly urged before this court that there are no eye witnesses. It was

also submitted that the 1 st accused appellant made a confession to witness

Wimalawathi (PW1) and that confession according to learned President's

counsel was made one and a half months after the incident. Subsequently it

was also submitted that there was a Section.27 Recovery and on the basis of

that application, the dead body in question was recovered. When the dead body

was recovered or found (03.12.1997), it was in a partially decomposed state.

Attention of this court had been drawn to the report of the Judicial Medical

Officer. The Judicial Medical Officer testified before the High Court that the

date of death would be two weeks before his examination of the dead body. The

indictment has been presented to the high court on the basis that the incident I

%

f r , took place on 21.10.1997. According to the indictment it appears that the

Medical Officers assertion as to the date of death is incorrect. It contradicts

the date of death as stated in the indictment. As regards the identification of

the body two matters were highlighted (A) Dentures supposed to be worn by the

deceased. (B) one gypsy ear-ring. The witness number 02 Kusumawathi was

called by the prosecution to identify the above. The testimony of the witnesses

who identified the above are in doubt merely for the reason that the Dentures

supposed to be identified had been produced in the High Court marked "P3",

and the circumstances, under which the dentures were identified is not really

borne out by the evidence, led and it is an item of evidence that should have

clear proof.

I

I

I I I

3

The other item the gypsy earnngs, only one of which had been produced

marked "PI» (page no.44). Also there was evidence of three witnesses to the

effect that the gypsy earrings was that of the deceased, but in the

circumstances under which the identity was made and relevant facts to

establish the identity of the Gypsy rings are not properly forth coming from the

testimony of the witnesses.

It was also suggested by the learned senior state counsel that the 1 st accused-

appellant having made the confession on or about one and half months after

the incident had been absconding. She was arrested after about two and half

years from the date of incident at Galewela in the Kurunegala District.

When this court examines the material submitted and the testimony led in the

High Court it appears that the required murderous of intention as per

provisions contained in the Penal Code 296 is lacking. This is a fit case to

reduce the culpability to a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder

on the basis of knowledge. Although the allegation that was made against this

accused appellant was that she assaulted the deceased party with a mamoty as

confessed, nevertheless this court is of the view that this is a fit case of

culpable homicide not amounting to murder. In all the above circumstances,

we have to set aside the conviction of the learned High Court Judge and

substitute a conviction for culpable homicide not amounting to murder on the

basis of knowledge.

I I

! I

f

f I

II l I III <

f I I

f i ! ! f I

i l I I I I

~ I

1 I

i

4

As such we proceed to sentence the 1 st accused appellant for 10 years rigorous

imprisonment. We also impose a fine of Rs.5, 000/ -which carries a default

sentence of one year rigorous imprisonment. Subject to above the sentence is

varied accordingly (sentence will begin to run from the date of conviction in the

High Court dated 24.01.2007). This appeal is partly allowed.

This appeal partly allowed.

H.C.J. Madawala. J

I agree

Na/-

6TYA~

Judge of the Court of Appeal

c-'SR~~~ Judge of the Court of Appeal

t[Iit