==== BLOCKS ==== 

r

I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Court of Appeal Case No:

C.A.16/2013

HC Batticaloa Case No.

HCB/2536/0S

In the matter of an appeal in terms

of section 331 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act No. 15 of 1979.

Attorney - General

VS.

Kulanthaivel Ramesh alias

Vishvalingam SasiKumar

Accused

AND NOW BETWEEN

Kulanthaivel Ramesh alias

VishvalingamSasiKumar

Accused - Appellant

VS.

Hon. Attorney- General,

Attorney-General's Department,

Colombo-12.

Respondent

2

Before H.N.J. Perera, J &

A. H. M. D. Nawaz, J

Counsel : Dr.Ranjith Fernando for the accused-appellant

P.Kumararatnam DSG for the Attorney-General

Argued on 24.02.2015

Decided on 27.03.2015

A.H.M.D.Nawaz J

The accused -appellant was indicted by the Attorney General in the High

Court of Batticaloa for having committed the murder of Bhaskaran

Lavakaran at Eravur on or about 10th August 2006 -an offence punishable

under section 296 of the Penal Code. Upon the accused pleading not guilty

to the indictment, the trial commenced before the High Court Judge and

the evidence that unfolded at the trial goes as follows.

The first witness called by the prosecution was the mother of the deceased-

Muthulingam Kaliyamma who stated that on the day in question the

deceased Lavakaran -her eldest had gone to sleep, as was his wont, at the

house of her husband's aunt which was located about 400 to 500 metres

away from her house. Upon hearing that there was a commotion she rushed

to the scene where she saw the accused-appellant come running and stab

3

her son in the ribs with a knife. Immediately after he was stabbed, the

deceased cried out-"Amma, Ramesh (an alias of the accused appellant) has

stabbed with a knife (sicY' Though the incident took place around 9p.m in

the night, the witness testified that she was able to witness the stabbing

with the aid of light emanating from the house of her younger sister. On a

question by the state counsel as to what words the accused-appellant had

uttered at the time of the incident, the witness stated that the accused had

said to the deceased, "Come, let's fight and see."

The witness made the first statement to Eraviur police on the same night

and both this pt information and the dying deposition therein were marked

contemporaneously at the trial. On cross examination the witness clarified

that what she heard was a quarrel had been going on between her deceased

son and Poomany (mother of the accused-appellant), the accused-appellant

and his relatives inclusive of his sister Manjula. In fact when she saw the

accused appellant stab her son with the knife, all relatives of the accused

appellant had been standing in the compound where the stabbing took

place. Though she rushed her son to the hospital he had succumbed to his

injuries as they brought him to the hospital. So the testimony of this witness

brings out an eye witness account of the incident which had followed a

commotion among the deceased, accused-appellant and some of the

relatives of the accused-appellant.

It has to be observed that while the first witness for the prosecution was the

mother of the deceased, the second witness Visalingam Poomany who is

referred to in evidence as the mother of the accused-appellant omits any

reference to the incident of stabbing -presumably so owing to maternal

instincts of preservation. This omission notwithstanding, Poomany supplies

"

4

the essentials of the narrative which throw light on the antecedent events

which could not be spoken to by the first witness. The deceased was in the

habit of coming to their house to sleep as they were relatives and on the day

in question around 8.30 pm in the night he came home drunk and kicked up

a shindig by hitting the children of his own sister. When the witness

remonstrated against his behavior, he laid his hands hitting her on the

cheek. When her daughter Manjula who was 7 months pregnant protested

at the assault on the witness, the deceased had pushed her down knocking

her unconscious. It was thereafter that the accused-appellant had appeared

on the scene posing the question as to who had hit his mother-the witness.

The witness further testified that her pregnant daughter and the sister of the

accused-appellant Manjula who had been pushed down to the ground was

lying unconscious for a while and every body had thought that she was dead.

In fact the fact that the deceased came inebriated, hit the 2nd witness

Poomany and knocked Poomany's daughter Manjula (sister of accused-

appellant) unconscious is spoken to by the 3rd witness who also stated that

the accused-appellant stabbed the deceased. The 3rd prosecution witness

Karthigesu Karunaiamma testified that she was aware that the accused

appellant stabbed the deceased in the backdrop of all this rumpus where

the mother of the accused-appellant had been beaten and his sister Manjula

was lying unconscious -all these antecedent events happening at the hands

of the deceased preceding the incident of stabbing. This witness

corroborated the dying deposition too when she said that she heard the

deceased say to his mother-ilhe has stabbed (sic)"

Thus the prosecution evidence elicited at the trial clearly established that an

altercation occurred between the deceased, the mother and the sister of

the accused-appellant over the drunken exchange the deceased had with

~ 1 I t 1 j I I

j i I

I I

1 , , { L 6

Court Judge after having indulged in an extensive narration of the evidence

has found the accused guilty of murder as she states in the last paragraph of

her judgment that as both mens rea and actus reus have been established,

the accused-appellant has to be found guilty of murder and accordingly the

learned High Court Judge convicted the accused-appellant of murder and

sentenced him to death on 28.02.2013. I observe that there are vitiating

factors that impinge on the conviction for murder. Except for a narration of

evidence led for the prosecution and defence, there has been no evaluation

of the evidence or an analysis that ought to have been undertaken more

particularly in a trial when an accused faces the capital punishment.

The evidence led at the trial clearly shows that there was evidence of

provocation. As elicited from the prosecution witnesses the incident had

taken place in the compound where the accused-appellant had been living.

The witnesses speak of the deceased coming intoxicated and slapping the

mother of the accused. When the sister of the accused remonstrated against

this he kicked her down into unconsciousness. The people around had made

an outcry that the sister Manjula had passed away obviously because she

had been lying unconscious for a while. The accused stated in his dock

statement that as soon as he heard this he rushed to the scene and the

melee ensued with the deceased. The stabbing took place in the course of

this fight. All these items of evidence provide the basis for an investigation

whether the accused was provoked into the criminal act of doing the

deceased in. But the learned High Court Judge falls foul of this task which is

enjoined on all triers of facts.

An exception need not be pleaded by the accused-Mangal Ganda v Emperor

(1925) 25 Cr.LJ 1073 and Faudi Keat v Emperor (1920) 22 Cr.LJ 799 . In

7

the instant appeal before us, it has to be noted that the plea of grave and

sudden provocation was not specifically raised by the defence when the cross

examination of the prosecution witnesses took place or when the defence

witnesses gave evidence. Neither did the accused-appellant raise the plea in

his dock statement. On the contrary the evidence led from the prosecution and

the defence evidence brought out circumstances which manifested the

availability of a plea of grave and sudden provocation. No doubt Section 105

of the Evidence Ordinance places the burden of proving a general or special

exception on an accused in the event that he pleads such an exception and

the Divisional Bench by a majority of 6 to 1 declared in The King v James

Chandrasekera 44 N.L.R 97 that the standard of proof of these exceptions

is on a balance of probabilities but there are a number of decisions that lay

down the rule that such a burden does not exist where it is manifest from the

evidence for the prosecution that the plea must be upheld-vide The King v

Sellammai (1931) 32 N.L.R 351; 8 T.L.R 143. Therefore it follows that the

burden of proof of an exception may be discharged not only by the evidence

for the prosecution but also by the evidence for the defence or both- vide the

jurisprudence for these propositions in Rajnikanth v State (1970) 2 S.C.C

866; In re KannegatiChowdarayya A.I.R. (1938) Mad 656; Anand v

Emperor A.I.R (1923) All 327; 24 C.L.] 225; Emperor v Damapa/a (1937)

38. Cr.L] 524; Mohamed Rafiq v Emperor A.I.R (1933) Lah.1055.

Courts have gone to the extent of holding that even if the accused denies the

allegation in toto, mitigatory circumstances must be considered by the jury if

the evidence unfolds such circumstances. Thus, in The Queen v

Sinnathamby(1965) 68 N.L.R 195 the Court of Criminal Appeal held that

even though the defence was a total denial of the acts which caused the death,

the judge was justified in putting the question of insanity to the jury for

consideration in the event of their holding that it was the accused who struck

I '

I I I

, : 8

the fatal blow, and that it is not the law that the question of insanity should

be put to the jury only if the defence counsel raises the defence.-see the

observations of Lord Denning in Bratty v Attorney General for Northern

Ireland (1963) A.C.386; R v Kemp (1957) 1 Q.B 399; R v Hopper (1915) 2

K.B 431.

Thus we distil the wisdom in these cases namely no burden of a general or

special exception is undertaken by an accused if such an exception arises on

the prosecution evidence or evidence led for the defence or both. I hold that

this proposition is consistent with the stipulations contained in section 105 of

the Evidence Ordinance. That section casts the burden on an accused of

proving the existence of circumstances bringing the case within any of the

general or special exceptions in the Penal Code or within a proviso contained

in any other part of the same Code, or in any law defining the law and the

Court shall presume the absence of such circumstances. If the existence of

the extenuating circumstances stipulated in the exceptions and provisos of the

Penal Code or even the elements constituting a defence contained in a law

are brought out by the evidence that emerges at the trial, whether it be that of

the prosecution or defence, then the Court does not have to presume the

absence of those circumstances and Section 105 will have no application in

such a situation. In such a situation there will be no burden as required by

Section 105 as the extenuating circumstances have already emerged at the

trial. When such extenuating circumstances arise, it is the duty of the trial

judge to leave the issue of extenuation to the jury-see the pith and substance

of this principle also encapsulated in cases such as Rolle v R ((1965) 3 AIl.ER

582 (PC); Bullard v R (1961) 3 AIl.ER at 471 n, (1958) 42 Cr App Riper

Lord Tucker;; Lee Chun-Chuen v R (1963) 1 All E.R at 79, 80 (PC) (HK)

per Devlin.

j

I I )

I, 9

This Court finds that there were circumstances that manifested on evidence

led for the prosecution and defence bringing the special exception of grave

and sudden provocation into operation but sadly enough there was no

consideration by the learned High Court Judge of these extenuating

circumstances. This Court holds that a High Court Judge sitting without a

jury as a trier of fact is obliged to embark upon an investigation whether

circumstances of a general or special exception may have accompanied the

killing. In fact Lord Tucker in Bullard v R(1961) 3 AIl.ER at 470 (at p 471),

(1958) 42 Cr App R 1 (at p 7) (an appeal from the Supreme Court of Trinidad

and Tobago) vigorously defended this approach with Earl Jowit and the

Rt.Hon.L.M.D.de Silva agreeing in the Judicial Committee of the Privy

Council.

"Every man on trial for murder has the right to have the issue of

manslaughter left to the jury if there is any evidence on which such a verdict can be given. To deprive him of this right must of necessity constitute a grave miscarriage of justice and it is idle to speculate what verdict the jury would have reached."

The above jurisprudence on the responsibility of the judge to apprise the

jury of all facts of potential relevance pertaining to defences equally applies

to a judge sitting alone in a case of murder.

Elements of the Defence of Grave and Sudden Provocation

This Court highlights the necessity that a High Court judge has to be guided

by the requisites of grave and sudden provocation that have been held to be

essential enough to afford the foundation for a reduction of a charge of

murder to one of culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Mere

provocation will not avail the accused. In order to bring a case under

Exception 1 to Section 294 of the Penal Code the accused must establish

the following elements or they must arise on evidence.

I ,

l I I

1 ! I I

, , r ":

(1) the provocation was sudden

(2) the provocation was grave

10

(3) and the accused lost his self-control

In fact Nagalingam, S.P.J. in Kumarasinghege Don John Perera (K.D.J.

Perera) v The King (1951) 53 N.L.R 193 at 201-204 sets out some salient

elements of the plea of grave and sudden provocation.

a) There must be provocation; that is, anything that ruffles the temper of a

man or incites passion or anger in him or causes a disturbance of the

equanimity of his mind. This may be caused by mere words not

amounting to abuse or by word of abuse, by blow with hands or stick or

club or a pelting of stones or by any other more serious method of doing

personal violence -(Provocative Conduct).

b) The provocation must be sudden. There should be a close proximation in

time between the acts of provocation and of retaliation. This is a

question of fact. The interval of time should not have afforded the

assailant an opportunity of regaining his normal composure-time for

"cooling" of his temper-See how the concept of suddenness has been

watered down by the doctrine of continuing or cumulative provocation

as seminally commented upon by the eminent jurist Dr.M.Sornaraja

(Journal of Ceylon Law) 1971 and developed and applied by our Courts

in cases such as Samithamby v The Queen 75 N.L.R 49; Gamini Silva v

AG (1998) 3 SrLLR 248 and Ranjith Prema/a/ vAG (2000) 2 SrLLR 403.

c) The provocation should be grave. It should be grave where an ordinary or

average man of the class to which the accused belongs would feel

annoyed or irritated by the provocation given to the extent that,

smarting under the provocation given he will resent or retaliate the act

of provocation (Objective Test)

\

\

I I

I

I ,

1 1 1 i I I I \ I 1 I

, .. , , 11

d) As a result of the grave and sudden provocation given, the prisoner was

actually deprived of his power of self-control

e) The prisoner must have caused the death whilst he was in the state of

deprivation of the power of self-control.

((d) and (e) would constitute elements of the subjective test of

provocation).

From the above one could see that the defence of grave and sudden

provocation contains both a subjective and objective standard. The Jury or

the judge sitting alone has to assess the existence and extent of grave and

sudden provocation with regard to these subjective and objective indicia.

The learned High Court Judge in this case was innocent of these

requirements and this Court deems it appropriate that the elements of the

defence be delved into for purposes of elucidation. Before I proceed to

engage in the task a summation of what constitutes provocation is apposite

at this stage.

What would amount to provocation?

The first question to be posed is-was there a provocative conduct ? As

evidenced in this case, the provocative acts need not have been directed at

the accused. In R v Pearson (1992) Crim LR 193- two brothers killed their

violent, tyrannical father with a sledgehammer. It was held that the father's

violent treatment of the younger brother, during the eight years when his

older brother was away from home, was relevant to the older boy's defence,

especially as he had returned home to protect his brother. There are a slew

of instances as to what would constitute provocation prominent among

which is the doctrine of continuing or cumulative provocation.

I

f

~

t,

I

12

This would coalesce into a discussion on the requirement of sudden and

temporary loss of self-control inherent in the plea. As adverted to above,

the Sri Lankan courts have adopted the concept of cumulative provocation in

cases such as Samithamby (ibid), and this is remarkable given that the

English law at the time of the Penal Code's promulgation (1883) restricted

the provocation to the deceased's conduct immediately prior to the killing

and refused to take into account previous provocation which might have

continued to affect the accused's mental state when the killing occurred-

See Stephen, J.E, Digest of the Criminal Law, 3rd edn, Arts 224 and 225

(1883). In fact both the Sri Lankan and Indian courts have embraced the

concept of cumulative provocation and the willing acceptance appears to

have been aided by the presence of the requirement of IIsudden

provocation" alongside IIgrave provocation" in the Exception. The courts

could thereby relegate all matters having a time element to the requirement

of suddenness, leaving them free to recognise instances of provocation

occurring well beyond a limited timeframe under the concept of grave

provocation. Thus, considerations such as that the provocation must have

been unexpected as opposed to planned in advance by the accused, that the

interval between the homicide and provocation must be brief, and that the

accused must have been operating under loss of self-control caused by the

provocation are all discussed under the requirement of sudden provocation.

But when it comes to deciding on what could count as IIgrave provocation",

all instances of the deceased's provocative conduct, perhaps extending over

weeks, months or even years before the homicidal incident, could constitute

provocation-see the seminal decision of the Indian Supreme Court in

Nanavati v State AIR 1962 SC 60S.

I • . ,

'\

j I 1

13

English courts have since embraced and adopted the concept of cumulative

or continuing provocation-see the Court of Appeal decisions in R v Ahluwalia

(1992) 4 All ER 889 and R v Thornton (No 2) (1996) 2 All ER 1023-where the

Courts heard evidence that battered women may suffer a "slow burn

reaction"-also see in this context M.Wasik-"Cumulative Provocation and

Domestic Killing" (1982) Criminal Law Review 29.

In fact as is apparent there are mainly two limbs to the defence of grave and

sudden provocation.

(1) The accused must establish on a balance of probabilities or the

evidence must emerge that he or she was provoked to lose his or her

self-control and kill by the provocation offered.

(2) A reasonable person would have been provoked to lose his or her self-

control and do as the accused did.

It is acknowledged that whilst the first limb embodies the subjective test, the

second limb connotes the objective test.

It is during the investigation of the subjective test that the trier of fact must

focus on the question of whether what was said or done by the deceased

would amount to provocation and at the end of that investigation the trier

of fact must reach the decision that the accused actually lost his or her self-

control. Enveloped in this investigation is whether the accused suffered a

sudden and temporary loss of self-control. A modification of this concept

would give rise to an appraisal based on the facts whether there was

continuing provocation. The trier of fact must decide all these questions

having regard to the accused. In other words the need to show that the

accused was provoked to lose his self-control is a subjective question. That is

it requires the jury or the trier of fact to look into the mind of the accused

.; 'J 14

and ask the question whether the accused actually lost his or her self-

control. It is a question of fact for the jury or the trier of fact having regard

to the evidence and it is in the process of that fact finding that all that I have

discussed above such as whether the deceased's words or conduct would

constitute provocation and whether the provocation was sudden and

temporary would beg the question.

Accordingly, the defence is unavailable where a killing contains elements of

premeditation or deliberation. This is not to say that the accused must have

lacked a murderous intent. It has been laid down by the Privy Council that

the defence of provocation may arise where a person does intend to kill or

inflict grievous bodily harm, but his intention to do so arises from sudden

passion involving loss of self-control by reason of provocation. Proof of any

sort of intent to kill does not negative provocation-see Lee Chun-Chuen v R

(1963) 1 All ER 73 at 79 (PC) (HK). Lord Goddard CJ affinned this in

Attorney-General v K.D.John Perera (1952) 54 N.L.R 265 at 269 (PC);

(1953) A.C 200 at p 206 Indeed, the defence arises only if a prima facie case

of murder has been made out. What the subjective condition of the defence

requires is that murderous intent must not have been formed independently

of the provocation. The subjective condition stands apart from the

objective condition or evaluative question. If an accused had not in fact lost

self-control, the defence would fail even though a jury might think that a

reasonable or ordinary person in like circumstances could have lost self-

control.

Objective Test

It has to be observed that the vexed question has been the application of the

objective test in the context of the plea of grave and sudden provocation.

15

Our courts have read the ordinary person test into the wording of

Exception 1 to Section 294 of the Penal Code by ruling that the judge must

tell the jury that the test for deciding on whether the provocation was

adequate is an objective test, namely, the test whether a reasonable man of

the class of society to which the accused belonged would have been

provoked, and whether the retaliation was reasonably proportionate to the

provocation.

The Court of Criminal Appeal has decided on a number of occasions that

when the plea is taken, the question whether in the opinion of the jury the

provocation was grave or not should be considered in relation to an ordinary

reasonable man of the class to which the accused belongs, and not in

relation to the particular accused, that is, the objective test-see David

Appuhamy v The King 53 N.L.R 313; Jamis v The Queen 53 N.L.R 401, which

partly overruled the former case; Muthu Banda v The Queen 56 N.L.R 217 at

217-218; also K.D.J.Perera v The King 53 N.L.R 193 (CCA); Punchibanda v

The Queen 74 N.L.R 494. In fact Gratiaen J defined the reasonable man as a

hypothetical person who, in this context, is an average man of the class of

society to which the prisoner belongs-See Jamis v The Queen 53 N.L.R 401 at

p.405.

The comparable formulation of the objective test has been laid down by the

Indian Supreme Court in the following terms:

tiThe test of "grave and sudden provocationN is whether a reasonable

man belonging to the same class of society as the accused, placed in

the situation in which the accused was placed would be so provoked as

to lose his self-controIN-see the Indian Supreme Court in Nanavati AIR

1962 SC 605 at 630 in relation to the identical Exception 1 to Section

300 of the Indian Penal Code.

I )

I I 1

16

The pure objectivity of this test is brought out by the declaration that the

susceptibilities and idiosyncrasies of the accused are material only in regard

to the separate and distinct issue, whether the accused had in fact lost his

self-control under the stress of the provocation offered-see Jamis v The

Queen 53 N.L.R at 403-404, 405-408. The attempt of Bertram CJ in

Punchirala 25 N.L.R 458 to invest the reasonable man with the peculiar

susceptibilities naturally incident to the offender was given short shrift by

the following repudiation by Gratiaen J in Jamis v The Queen 53 N.L.R at

401 at 408.

aWe certainly reject the argument that, so long as the dictum in Punchirala's case is allowed to stand, its ratio decidendi must logically be extended to every other case where a person charged with murder pleads that he was peculiarly prone to loss of self-control under the stress of provocation which was insufficient in point of degree to produce a similar effect on the mind of an average person."

Though Gratiaen J deliberately refrained from declaring Punchirala's case

wrongly decided, the case of The King v Punchirala was overruled in Muthu

Banda v The Queen 56 N.L.R 217 (C.C.A) where it was held that when

considering whether the accused was deprived of the power of self-control

by grave and sudden provocation, the jury must apply an objective test, that

is, whether in the particular case under consideration, a reasonable or an

average man with the same background and in the same circumstances of

life as the accused would have been provoked into serious retaliation. The

effect of this proposition is that the intoxication of the accused is not to be

regarded as affecting the gravity of the provocation offered, and should

only be taken into account, together with the idiosyncrasies of health and

f

If

\t

i

I ffi,II

17

temperament, when the jury determines subjectively whether or not the

accused lost his self-control under the stress of provocation.

Be that as it may, the English reasonable man whose shadow of pure

objectivity we see reflected in cases such as Jamis v The Queen and Muthu

Banda v The Queen (supra) underwent a change in England itself when he

was subjectivized in 1978 by the House of Lords in DPP v Camplin (1978) AC

705. The House had held that the reasonable man must be regarded as

having the power of self-control to be expected of an ordinary person (not

unusually pugnacious or excitable) of the age and sex of the accused, and

bearing such other characteristics of the accused as are relevant to the

gravity of the provocation. Lord Diplock suggested a justification for making

age a qualification to the ordinary power of self-control requirement.

liTo require old heads upon young shoulders is inconsistent with law~s compassion to human frailty.N-DPP v Camplin (1978) 2 All ER 168 at 174

So age and sex of the accused became attributes that could be attributed

to the ordinary man. The English courts have not stopped at this but have

advanced the concept of "such other characteristics of the accused as are

relevant to the gravity of the provocation" as articulated by Lord Diplock in

DPP v Camp/in (supra). Today the pronouncement made in the Privy

Council case of Attorney General for Jersey v Holley (2005) UKPC 23 seems

to reflect the current articulation on who a reasonable man is for purposes

of the objective test. The Privy Council has accepted a statement made by

Professor Ashworth of Oxford University in 1976 that:

'The proper distinction .... is that individual peculiarities which bear on

the gravity of the provocation should be taken into account~ whereas

fiJI

J

II

!

18

individual peculiarities bearing on the accused~s level of self-control

should not. N-see Professor Andrew Ashworth's observation in liThe

Doctrine of Provocation" (1976) CU 292 at 300.

It has to be noted that the majority in Luc Thief Thuan v The Queen (1997)

AC 131 (PC) commented at 140-141 that the House in DPP v Camplin (supra)

had accepted Professor Ashworth's observation. Thus, the Privy Council in

Attorney General for Jersey v Holley (supra) has drawn a distinction

between what have been described as 'control characteristics' and 'response

characteristics'. Control characteristics are those which merely have an

effect on the accused's ability to control themselves and these

characteristics could not be taken into account for the objective test of

provocation. Response characteristics are those which are the subject of the

provocation and could be taken into account. For example, a boy is very

sensitive because he has big ears, and is taunted about being a bad player at

football. If the boy kills, his big ears ought not to be a relevant characteristic

because it merely makes him more provocable -the taunt is just as

provocative to a boy with ordinary ears as to the boy.

In R v James; R v Karimi (2006) EWCA Crim 14 the Court of Appeal held that

the Privy Council case of Attorney General for Jersey v Holley (2005) UKPC

23 reflected the current law in England. So England has moved away from

the hidebound and strait-jacketed reasonable man who could not be

attributed at one time with any characteristics of the particular accused.

Closer home across the Palk Straits the Indian Courts have been very clear

that a purely objective test would create injustice if applied to a multi-

cultural, multi-religious and multi-class structured society like the one in

f

\,,I

~ ,

r f I

•tI

IIJ, ! !I ,,! I

19

India. They were assisted in reaching this viewpoint by referring to the Code

framers themselves:

"A person who should offer a gross insult to the Mohamedan

religion in the presence of a zealous professor of that religion;

who should deprive some high-born rajpoot of his caste; who

should rudely thrust his head into the covered palanquin of a

woman of rank, would probably move those he insulted to more

violent anger than if he had caused them some severe bodily hurt.

That on these subjects our ( English) notions and usages differ

from theirs is nothing to the purpose. We are legislating for

them, and though we may wish that their opinions and feelings

may undergo a considerable change, it is our duty, while the

opinions and feelings remain unchanged, to pay as much respect

to those opinions and feelings as if we partook of them. "-see

Macaulay, Mcleod, Anderson and Millet -The Indian Penal Code

as originally framed in 1837 with Notes which was cited by the

Supreme Court in Nanavat; AIR 1962 SC 605

The proposition of the Supreme Court in Nanavat; cited above is a good

example of the way the Indian courts have modified the purely objective test

contained in the English law at that time. By placing the ordinary person in

the "same class of society as the accused" and in the situation in which the

accused was placed, the court was obviously contemplating certain of the

accused IS personal characteristics and circumstances to have a bearing on

the ordinary person test. As with the English and Indian laws that prevail

today, these characteristics can be categorised into those affecting the

!Ii I

It 1

20

gravity of the provocation and those affecting the power of self-control of an

ordinary person.

Characteristics affecting the gravity of the provocation

As a general proposition, it appears that even Sri Lankan Law, like Indian

counterpart, must be prepared to recognise all such characteristics as are

relevant to the gravity of the provocation provided the provocation was

directed at the characteristic. This stems from the Explanation to Exception 1

which states that the question whether the provocation was grave and

sudden enough to prevent the offence from amounting to murder is a

question of fact. Hence, the Code framers had deliberately left the question

to be decided by the jury or the trier of fact in every case, finding it futile to

lay down a universal standard for measuring the gravity of the provocation-

see the comments to this effect in the Indian case of Abdul Majid v State

1963 (2) Cr U 631, P 633. This is a sensible approach, given the infinite

variety of accused's characteristics and circumstances which, when

attributed to the ordinary person, might persuade the jury or the judge to

decide that such a person could be provoked into losing self-control.

The Indian courts have recognised a host of characteristics and

circumstances including age ( State v Shand Jusub Mamad 1982 Cr.U 1691),

religious beliefs and values (Pancham v Emperor AIR 1947 Oudh 148),

mental and physical disabilities( Aktar v State AIR 1964 All 262},

drunkenness (Sadhu Singh v State 1969 Cr.U 1183) a, criminal conduct ( Nga

Paw Yin v Emperor AIR 1936 Rang 40) , ethnicity (Jamu Majhi v State 1989

Cr.U 753), cultural and social environment (Nanavati AIR 1962 SC 60S), and

past experiences (Aktar v State AIR 1964 All 262).

Il

!i

21

In light of English and Indian developments, it is apposite to highlight the

need to revisit our concept of a reasonable man who still remains as he was

having been defined as partaking of a reasonable average man of the class

of society to which the accused belongs but devoid of some of the relevant

characteristics of the accused. He has to be attributed with such

characteristics of the accused as would impact on the gravity of provocation

to the reasonable man, as has been modified in England and India. It is

worth mentioning here that the Coroners and Justice Act of England enacted

in 2009 has already abolished the partial defence of provocation in England

and instead installed different standards for loss of self control giving

effect to the clarion call for reforms of the defence of provocation. Maybe

the time has come for us to consider all this in the future to orient our law in

line with the development of an ordinary man who has since grown as a

subjectivized reasonable man in many parts of the world.

This Court indulged in this comparative exercise in order to clarify the law on

provocation that has undergone such a vast transformation in other

jurisdictions though we stand yet moored to a reasonable man who requires

a uniform standard regardless of relevant characteristics.

In any event the law as the Court has articulated above relevant to the

usual directions that the judge has to bear in mind whether he directs the

jury or himself has to be borne in mind in a case where the plea of

provocation arises in future. None of these directions did the learned High

Court Judge bear in mind when she proceeded to convict the accused for

murder having regard only to mens rea and actus reus of murder.

l

J

22

Failure to advert to extenuating circumstances

There is a long established line of cases that failure to direct the jury

adequately on the issue of provocation necessitates, in appeal, the

substitution of a verdict of culpable homicide not amounting to murder in

place of one of murder.

In Mohideen MeeraSaibo(1940) 19 c.L.W 129 the acrimony between the

accused and the deceased stemmed from matters connected with a debt

which the deceased owed the accused. In appeal, Moseley J, declared; "in

our view, that part of the story of the accused should have been put to the

jury, describing the journey, eighteen miles in all, made by the accused for

the purpose of obtaining payment of the debt due to him, the hope held out

by the deceased that payment would be made at Bandarawela, the attempt

made by the deceased to elude the accused on their arrival in the town and,

finally, the apparent blunt refusal of the deceased to settle the debt.

Another factor to be considered was the state of the accused's mind when

he was told, as he says that he was, his children were starving".

In Premaratne(1947) 34 c.L.W 32 Howard c.J, on behalf of the Court of

Criminal Appeal, stated at p 32. "The trial judge goes on to deal with the

facts in the case and, having done so, asks the jury to consider those facts, so

far as the defence based on the exercise of the right of private defence is

concerned. The jury, however, is not asked to consider the facts and decide

as to a defence based on the fact that the accused had lost his power of self-

control by reason of grave and sudden provocation". In Rex v Michael (1947)

35 c.L.W 15, Howard c.J said at p 16: "in dealing with the defence of the

accused, the learned judge, it is true, puts before the jury the defence of the

accused that he was acting in the exercise of the right of private defence

f i

1 I /. I

\

23

and also puts to them the question as to whether there was a sudden fight,

but with regard to the question of grave and sudden provocation ........ he

finishes his remarks on the point by saying that the question of grave and

sudden provocation really fails. In other words, he has withdrawn that issue

from the jury."

In all these cases, the Court of Criminal Appeal, on the basis that applicability

of the special exception of grave and sudden provocation had not been put

clearly to the jury, intervened to alter convictions of murder to those of

culpable homicide not amounting to murder.

Upon a consideration of the evidence for the prosecution, evidence led for

the defence and both, there are, in our view, items of evidence that would

affirmatively bring the case against the accused within Exception 1 to

Section 294 of the Penal Code, though the accused did not plead the

exception. We hold that it is imperative, in a case of murder heard without a

jury, that the learned High Court Judge must direct his or her mind to

ascertain whether there are extenuating circumstances that would bring the

case against the accused within a general or special exception

notwithstanding the fact he did the act, and the imputable intention was

murderous.

Quite regrettably none of the above principles had been borne in mind by

the High Court Judge of Batticaloa when she convicted the accused-

appellant for murder and imposed a sentence of death on 28.02.2013. Such

a failure to take into account the extenuating circumstances amounts to a

non direction resulting in a miscarriage of justice and having regard to the

principles adumbrated above we alter the conviction for murder to one of

culpable homicide not amounting to murder and substitute a sentence of 12

fIJrt ! f

~ JI t I ! i I\ I

\,

~ r ! I

i

f

24

years rigorous imprisonment which is to be operative from the date of

conviction namely 28.02.2013. We also impose a fine of Rs 5,000 in default

of which a term of 6 months' rigorous imprisonment is ordered.

Subject to the above variation of the conviction and sentence, the appeal is

dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

H.N.J.Perera J

I agree

, '" E COURT OF APPEAL

Il iI

\