==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 452-2008 (Writ)

1. W. M. Karunawathie of

Panguwegedera, Pitadeniya,

Medagama.

2. W. M. Seneviratne Bandara of

No. 2/92, Paragahakele.

3. W. M. Sumanasinghe Bandara of

No. 2.92, Paragahakele.

PETITIONERS

Vs.

1. Arachchi Hamilage Pemawathie

2. M. Lakshman Jayaweera

Both of No. 23, Ruhunugama, Kadjuwatte, Weheragala.

3. T. G. Dayananda, Weheragala Divisional Manager, 4. S.M. Amith Sisira Kumara, Unit Manager 5. Wanigasekera Land Officer 6. A. Subasinghe Land Officer

All of Weheragala Divisional Office, Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka Weheragala.

1

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON;

DECIDED ON:

GOONERATNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J.

7. Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka of Darley Road, Colombo 10.

RESPONDENTS

Dr. Sunil Coorey with Sudarshini Coorey for Petitioners

Rohan Sahabandu with Hasitha Amarasinghe for the l

5t & 2"d Respondents

Vikum de Abrew S. S. C., for 3rd- ih Respondents

30.10.2012

06.03.2013

2

By this writ application the three Petitioners have sought a Writ of

Certiorari to quash the permit issued to one W. M. Siriwardena Banda under the

Land Development Ordinance. A Writ of Mandamus is also sought to issue a

permit to the 1st Petitioner. Sub paragraph (d) of the prayer to the Petition seeks a

Writ of Mandamus to direct the 3rd to th Respondents to issue a permit to the 2nd

Petitioner. This court observes that the relief prayed for by the application of the

Petitioners are itself vague and lacks the basic requirements under the appellate

3

procedure rules which should be adhered to by the Petitioners. The vagueness of

the application is manifested by including the words 'in the event' in the prayer at

the beginning of paragraphs 'b' 'c' & 'd'. This court and may be the other

Respondents are invited to surmise the existence of a valid permit. I would at the

outset rule that it would not suffice in law and the applicable procedure to rely on

the permit produced by the 3rd to th Respondents marked '3R1' along with their

objections. On this ground alone this application has to be rejected.

To refer to the facts very briefly as in the affidavit and written

submission filed by the Petitioner in this court, are as follows. The 3 Petitioners

claim to be the brother and sisters of permit holder W. M. Siriwardena Bandara

who was an employee of the th Respondent Authority and died on or about 2007

('G'). Petitioner claim that Siriwardena Bandara was un married and died

issueless, but was living with the 1st Respondent. The Death Certificates of the

parents of the said Siriwardena Bandara is marked 'E' & 'F'. By the letters marked

'J' & 'K' the 1st Petitioner wrote to the 3rd Respondent that the permit be issued to

the 1st Petitioner. There was no response to the said letters (dated January &

February 2008) Petitioners also allege that the nominee the 2nd Respondent (o;ls in

3R1) is the son of one M.B. Kiribanda and the 1st Respondent to this application.

The Marriage Certificate of the 1st Respondent and Kiribanda is produced marked

'H'. I would incorporate the submissions of both sides and materials contained in

the petition/affidavit and counter affidavit of the Petitioner since the facts

referred to therein give rise to very complex facts.

4

Argument against the Petitioner

(i) That in document marked as "A" the Birth Certificate of Siriwardena Bandara, at

item 6 "Were parents marked?" the answer is "Yes"; but in the Birth Certificates of

the 1st to 3rtd Petitioners which are marked as B, C, D at item 6 "Were parents

marked?" the answer is "No". Therefore the 1st to 3rd Petitioners are illegitimate

children and cannot qualify under the Land Development Ordinance to obLin a

permit to the disputed land.

(ii) In the said Birth Certificates marked as A, B,C, and D, the mother's name in A, C and

in D appears as "Ratnayake Mudiyanselage Wimalawathie" and in the Birth

Certificate marked as B, the mother's name appears as "Ratnayake Mudiyanselage

Heen Menika". Therefore there is a discrepancy as to who is the lawful wife of

Wannisinghe Mudiyanselage Punchi Bandara.

(iii) The document sought to be quashed by the Petitioner by way of writ is not annexed

to the petition, therefore whether a writ will lie.

In the counter affidavit of Petitioner it is stated:

As per the Counter Affidavit filed by the Petitioners the parents of the Petitioners

and Siriwardena Bandara was never married (paragraph 3 of the Counter Affidavit

dated 17 /01/2009). Therefore it is respectfully submitted that the item 6 of the

Birth Certificate marked as

11A" to the petition, it is not correct. In any event if at

the time Siriwardena Bandara was born in 1954, if the parents were married, they

would also be married in the later years, in which years the Petitioners were born.

However the Petitioners admit the fact that the parents of the Petitioners were

unmarried at all times, but their parents lived as husband and wife.

The facts presented by the Petitioners and the other Respondents

are made to look in a way complex and on the other hand disputed facts. The 3rd-

ih Respondents in no uncertain terms aver that by permit marked 3R1 the person

called W. M. Siriwardena Bandara became the permit holder and has been in

5

possession of the land along with the 1st Respondent since 1979. This is the

position of the official Respondents. The said Siriwardena Bandara died on or

about December 2007. (G) Application filed on May 2008. Delay of about 5

months, noted. The Petitioners claim to be the brothers and sisters of the said

Siriwardena Bandara, who was never married but lived with the 1st Respondent.

On the other hand 1st & 2nd Respondents deny that the Petitioners were the

brothers and sisters of W. M. Siriwardena Bandara. 1st Respondent claim to be the

wife of W M. Siriwardena Bandara either by habit and repute etc. Some doubt

had been also raised regarding legitimacy of the Petitioners and that of

Siriwardena Bandara who is the legitimate son of his parents. Accordingly Birth

Certificates 'A' 'B' 'C' & 'D' are produced. These appear to be disputed facts. The

ih Respondent also need to verify all relevant and necessary facts and issue the

permit to the person entitled to same by law. This court cannot go on a voyage of

discovery to ascertain whether the ih Respondent had complied with the

provisions of the Land Development Ordinance.

When facts are disputed, court should be cautious and refrain from

interfering by way of granting a prerogative writ. This is a discretionary remedy of

court. Given the powers of such a remedy, the Common law surrounding this

remedy requires multiple conditions that must be met prior to issuance of a writ

by court. Only if (a) the major facts are not on dispute and the legal result are not

subject to controversy Thajudeen Vs. Sri Lanka Tea Board and Another (1981) 2

SLR 471 and (b) the function that is to be completed by writ is a public duty with

the power to perform, such duty. Vide Hakmana Multipurpose Corporative

Society Ltd. Vs. Ferdinanda (1985) 2 SLR 272 Silva Vs. Ambawatta (1968) 71 NLR

6

348 will Writ of Mandamus lie. A Writ of Mandamus cannot lie as a matter of

course or routine. 1 CLW 306.

In all the above facts and circumstances of this case this is not a fit

case to issue the writs prayed for in the application of the three Petitioners. The

ih Respondent Authority on the other hand should have held an inquiry to decide

whether there had been a proper legally acceptable nomination in terms of the

Land Development Ordinance. In any event the Petitioners have not established

proper acceptable grounds to satisfy court, their entitlement for a prerogative

writ. Nor can a writ be granted on vague statements.

Application dismissed without costs.

(j\_yGw~ ~ JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL