==== BLOCKS ==== 

j I , ! I

!

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an appeal under Sec.

755(3) of the Civil Procedure Code.

C.A Case No. 8S0/97(F) Mohomed Lafeer Mohomed Najeed

DC (Kegalle) Jayabima Centre, 78/1, Kandy Road,

CS!se No. 281S/l Warkapola.

Plaintiff

Vs.

1. Samsudeen Bacha Ameer Bacha

Of Mangedara, Nangalla.

2. Mohomed Wadood Mohomed Jaleel

198/2, Ganithapura, Warakapola.

Defendant

AND NOW

Mohomed Lafeer Mohomed Najeed

Jayabima Centre, 78/1, Kandy Road,

Warkapola.

Plaintiff Appellant

1

fifflII

\

Vs.

1. Samsudeen Bacha Ameer Bacha

Of Mangedara, Nangalla.

2. Mohomed Wadood Mohomed Jaleel

198/2, Ganithapura, Warakapola.

2a. Mohomed Fareed Ummu Nisa

2b. Mohomed Jaleel Riaz

2c. Mohomed Jaleel Mohomed Riswan

2d. Mohomed Jaleel Fathima Jazeera

All of 198/2, Ganithapura, Warakapola.

Defendant Respondents

COUNSEL Chatura Galhena for the Plaintiff

Appellant.

II

Isuru Somadasa for the pt

Defendant Respondent.

ARGUED ON 16.06.2014

2

,

DECIDED ON 24.07.2015

. P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J

The Plaintiff Appellant has instituted this action seeking declaration of title to

the premises No.198/2 with 1/42nd undivided share of the land described in the

schedule to the plaint. It has been averred in the plaint that Sitthi Sanoba

transferred the said rights to him on 02.10.1978 by a deed of transfer. The cause

of action that he has referred to in the plaint against the Defendant Respondents

is the forcible entry to the said premises on or about 15.10.1978. The Defendant

Respondents, in their answer, have stated that they are co-owners of the land

called "Kahatagahawattha" alias "Kahatagahamulawattha", in the portion of

that land which has been divided as lot No.3 and 4 of the Plan No. 2982.

The Plaintiff Appellant, in his evidence, has admitted that he did not search for

the title of Sitthi Sanoba who transferred 1/42 undivjded share to him. He has

further admitted that he was not aware of the plan of Baddewala, licenced

surveyor by which the co-owners had amicably partitioned their undivided

rights. Admittedly, the Plaintiff Appellant has not occupied the premises in suit

after purchasing it. Instead, he has kept a caretaker to look after it. It was after

3

t

Ii i

fIII

[ 1 f !Il

I I

! \

12 days of purchasing the property the Defendants had come to forcible

occupation.

The Plaintiff Appellant had not come to court seeking relief in' a possessory

remedy action. Instead, he has filed "rei vindicatio action" vindicating his title to

the premises in dispute.

Even though the learned trial judge had decided that Sitthi Sanoba had been a

co-owner of the property and her rights had been transferred to the Plaintiff

Appellant by P 2 , the learned judge had been of the opinion that the link of this

right to the subject matter has not been proved. The matter that this court too

sees is though the assessment number of the premises in suit is mentioned in

the deed P2, the fact that her ownership to the said premises has not been

proved. Therefore, this court finds no error in the conclusion of the learned trial

judge. As such, the Appeal is dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

4