==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application under Article

140 of the constitution for an order in the

nature of writs of Certiorari and Mandamus.

*******

C.A. (Writ) Application No.504/2008

1

Vs

Mohamed Faizi

No. 164, Dutugamunu Street

Kohuwela.

PETITIONER

1. Municipal Council

Dehiwela-Mt. Lavinia

Dehiwela.

2. Mr. Dhanasiri Amarathunga

The Mayor,

Municipal Council

Dehiwela-Mt. Lavinia

Dehiwela.

RESPONDENTS

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

Deepali Wijesundera J.

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

: Kamal Dissanayake with Surani

Amarathunga for the Petitioner.

Manohara De Silva PC with

Nimal Hettipola for the 1st and 2nd

Respondents.

: 30th September, 2014

: 21 st November, 2014

The petitioner has filed this application seeking a writ of Certiorari

to quash the decision of the Planning Committee of the 1 st respondents'

marked X12 rejecting the application of the petitioner to develop the

land described in plan marked X11. Also petitioner is seeking a writ of

Mandamus to direct the respondents to include the petitioner's name in

the 1st respondent council's Assessment register.

The learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that he is the

legitimate owner of the land described in his application to the

respondents for approval for development and that by refusing to grant

2

him permission to develop the said land the respondents have caused

serious violation of the principles of natural justice. He further submitted

the respondent's refusal was due to a pending case regarding the

ownership of the land and that there is no such case for the subject

matter in the instant case. He stated that there is no provision in the

Municipal Council Ordinance to say that the Municipal Council can not

approve a plan for development when there is a case pending in respect

of a land seeking to be developed.

The petitioner further submitted that he was not given a hearing

by the respondents thereby violating the principle of audi alterarn

partern.

The petitioner's counsel stated that the petitioner who is a tax

payer of the 1st respondent authority is rightfully entitled to get his

development plan approved. By refusing to approve the said plan his

legitimate expectations were denied.

The learned Presidents Counsel for the respondents submitted,

that there are lots in plan marked X2 from A to J and lot A is described

as a quarry, which was used to dump garbage collected within the 1st

3

respondent's council limits over the years. He further stated that the

original owner of the petitioner's land was Alice Peiris who owned only

7.2 Perches of the said land, but later she has come to own a larger

land with an extent of A:O R03:P392 for which there is no title deeds to

show how she came to own a larger land.

The counsel for the respondents' submitted that although the

petitioner claims ownership to the said land Assessment No. 20/1,

Sirigal Mawatha the name of the owner does not appear in the report

marked X6. Marking R3 the respondents stated that the folio of the

Assessment register of the 15t respondent council does not show the

name of the owner. He further stated that neither the petitioner nor his

purported predecessors in title have registered their names and address

as owners of the said property in accordance with the Local

Government by laws (R2).

Respondents further submitted that the relevant land was an

abandoned quarry which was later filled up with garbage collected within

the 15t respondent council over the years and that the soil is not suitable

for development approval (R9 and R10). The respondent council is

claiming the entirely of the subject matter and the application for

development approval was refused.

4

l

The petitioner's counsel in his submission in one place stated that

there is no court case for the land in issue and on the same breath

stated that the Municipal Councils' Ordinance does not say a

development plan can not be approved when there is a case pending for

the subject matter. One can not blow hot and cold in a legal argument

one has to be specific. According to the petitioner any person who

claims a land can get a building plan approved producing deeds. He

claimed that he is a tax payer and he had a legitimate expectation to get

his plan approved. Just being a tax payer does not give one a right to

get a plan approved to a land where there is no clear title and when the

conditions are not fulfilled. The title he has to get by a decree in the

District Court this court can not decide on his title or possession.

The petitioner stated that his application was rejected over the

counter and the aud; alteram partem principle was violated. On perusal

of documents marked X7, X8 shows that it has not been so.

On perusal of documents X20 and X21 it is evident that the

petitioner has applied to be registered as owner of the disputed land

only in 2007. His predecessor has not been registered prior to this

according to Local Government by laws. X5 document shows that it is

5

i

~;Ri

only a transfer deed which does not show the pedigree of the entire

land.

The respondents have stated the soil of the disputed land is not

suitable for the development project as it has been filled with garbage

which they said was one reason to refuse the petitioner's application.

This is something the 1 st respondent had to consider before a project is

approved.

On perusal of documents and the submission I see no reason to

grant the petitioner relief prayed for since the petitioner has not

established grounds for a writ of certiorari or Mandamus.

For the afore stated reasons the petitioner's application is

dismissed with costs fixed at Rs. 50,000/=

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

6

~.Iffi1!

!

i