==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

CA Writ N o.134f2012

BEFORE

COUNSEL

In the matter of an application for mandates

In the nature of Writs of Certiorari, mandamus

And Prohibition under and in terms of Article

140 of the Constitution.

Professor Yapa Mudiyanselage Sunanda

Madduma Bandara,

No.102/5/ A, Pushparama Road,

Pahala Biyanwala,

Kadawatha.

Vs.

1. University of Kelaniya,

Dalugama,

Kelaniya.

And 34 others

Petitioner

Respondents

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

P.W.D.C.JAYATHILAKA, J

M.U.M.Ali Sabry PC with Erusha kalidara,

for the Petitioner.

2

Aruna Obeysekara DSG

for the 1st -3rd ,5th -30th and 35th Respondent

Argued on 22.01.2013

Decided on 20.06.2013

S.Sriskandaraj ah,J

The Petitioner joined the Department of Economics of the 1st Respondent

University in 1979, as a Probationer Assistant Lecturer and thereafter he was promoted

to Senior Lecturer Grade II and Grade I. The Petitioner held different positions in the

said University and the Petitioner currently is the Director-General of Development and

Communication of the Ministry of Economic Development. The Petitioner in this

application has sought a Writ of Certiorari to quash the decision of the 1st, 3rd to 7th and

9th to 21st Respondents, electing and/ or selecting the 32nd and 33rd Respondents as

suitable candidates for the post of Vice-Chancellor of the 1st Respondent University, to

be submitted to the 22nd Respondent Commission, and the Petitioner has also sought a

Writ of Mandamus to hold a fresh election for the purpose of electing a Vice-Chancellor

to the l 5t Respondent University. The Petitioner has also sought a Writ of Prohibition

preventing the 22nd to the 30th Respondents, from acting on the nomination submitted

by the 21st Respondent and submitting the same to His Excellency the President in

terms of Section 39 of the University Act, as amended.

The issue raised in this application is in relation to the election and/ or selection of the 3

Members to the post of Vice-Chancellor to the University of Kelaniya in terms of Section

34 of the Universities Act No.16 of 1978, as amended by Act No.7 of 1985 and Act No.l

of 1995. Section 34 provides as follows:-

3

Section 34:

(a) The Vice Chancellor of a University shall be appointed for a term of 3 years

by the President upon the recommendation of the Commission from a panel

of 3 names recommended by the Council of that University;

(b) The Vice Chancellor of a University may be removed from office by the

President after consultation with the Commission.

The procedure for the selection of the Vice-Chancellor is set out in the Commission

circular. According to the circular, the said post has to be advertised in the newspaper.

Accordingly, the Registrar and the Secretary of the Council of the 1st Respondent

University published an advertisement in the newspaper on 21st March 2012 inviting

applications/nominations from suitable candidates to the post of Vice-Chancellor of the

1st Respondent University. In terms of the said advertisement, the Petitioner, the 2nd

Respondent, the 8th Respondent and 31st to the 34th Respondents and 4 other candidates

applied for the post of Vice-Chancellor of the 1st Respondent. Subsequently, 3 members

withdrew their applications. The Petitioner, the 2nd Respondent, 8th Respondent and

the 31st to the 34th Respondents remained as applicants for this post. The 1st Respondent

Council fixed a Council meeting for the 8th of May 2012 for election of three candidates

in terms of Section 34 of the University Act for the purpose of appointing a Vice-

Chancellor. On 8th May 2012, the 1st Respondent Council took a vote from the Members

of the Council to elect 3 Members for the post of Vice Chancellor in terms of the circular

issued by the University Grants Commission. The Applicant received the following

votes in the 1st round:

The 2nd Respondent - 13

The 8th Respondent -3

31st Respondent -2

4

32st Respondent -8

33rd Respondent -6

34th Respondent -0

Petitioner -6

Since the Petitioner and the 33rd Respondent received equal number of votes for

the 3rd position, the Council decided to have a 2nd round voting. The votes

secured by each application in the 2nd round are as follows:-

The 33rd Respondent -8 votes

The Petitioner -7 votes.

As per the votes, the Council of the 1st Respondent had decided to recommend

the 2nd, 32nd and 33rd Respondents to the 22nd Respondent in terms of Section 34

of the Universities Act for the Vice-Chancellor's post.

It is the submission of the Petitioner that Mr. Deepal Sooriya Arachchi,

who had been absent for more than 3 consecutive meetings, and thus deemed to

have vacated his office in terms of Section 44(5) of the University Act No.16 of

1988, had participated in the said voting, and had voted and, if he has not

participated in the meeting, and not cast his vote, the Petitioner had a fair chance

of getting elected to the 3 Member Panel of the post of Vice-Chancellor. The

Petitioner submitted, in the aforesaid circumstances, the selection of the 3

Members to the post of Vice-Chancellor of the 1st Respondent at the meeting held

on 8/05/2012 is illegal, unlawful and ultra vires and, therefore, the

recommendation made by the Council has to be quashed by a Writ of Certiorari.

The Petitioner relied on the interpretation of Section 44(5) of the

Universities Act. Section 44(5) which provides as follows:-

5

Section 44(5): A branch member of the Council who, for whatever reason,

absents himself from 3 consecutive meetings of the Council, shall be deemed to

have vacated his office as a Member of the Council, and the Commission shall

appoint a fit person to fill the resulting vacancy.

It is the position of the Petitioner that Mr. Deepal Sooriya Arachchi was

absent from 3 consecutive meetings of the Council and, therefore, he had deemed

to have vacated his office as a Member of the Council and, therefore, he is not

entitled to vote in the selection process that was held to select the Vice-

Chancellor. It is the submission of the Petitioner that if he has not voted in the

said election, he would have had a fair chance to get elected.

The Respondents contended, the election was held fairly and the Members of the

Council present at the said meeting accepted the results of the election and, after

the minutes of the election were prepared by the pro-tern Chairman, it was read

out to the Members who were present at the meeting, and they agreed with the

contents thereof. Thereafter the Council decided, in terms of Section 34 of the

Universities Act, to recommend to the 22nd Respondent the names of the 2nd

Respondent, 32nd Respondent and 33rct Respondent for the post of Vice-

Chancellor of the 1st Respondent. It is the position of the Respondents that Mr.

Deepal Sooriya Arachchi the 19th Respondent, had been present at the meeting of

the Council held on 13/09/2011. Mr. Deepal Sooriya Arachchi had informed the

Registrar of the 1st Respondent University of his inability to attend the Council

meeting held on 8/11/2011, 20/12/2012 and 14/02/2012 by documents marked

PS, P9, P10 and P11. It is the position of the Respondents that since the 19th

Respondent had informed the 1st Respondent of his inability to attend the

aforesaid meetings of the Council, and the Council has excused his absence, he

cannot be considered as absent from the said meetings and, therefore, the

6

Respondent's submission that Section 44(5) of the said Act does not apply to the

19th Respondent and hence he is eligible to attend and vote at the Council

meeting held on 8 I 05 I 2012.

The Petitioner's submission that Section 44(5) that imposed the

disqualification of a Member has awarded the disqualification in the following

manner:-

"For whatever reasons, absence means, absence from 3 consecutive meetings of

the Council, shall be deemed to have vacated his office as a Member of the

Council."

It is the submission of the Petitioner that if a Member is absent for whatever

reasons, he is deemed to have vacated his office. The position of the Respondent

is that if a Member has got prior approval of the Council to excuse his absence at

the Council meeting, then his absence cannot be considered under Section 44(5)

as a person absent from the meeting of the Council.

A fair reading of Section 44(5) would show that a Member, without due

diligence in attending the meeting, has kept away from attending the meeting for

3 consecutive occasions, could be considered as deemed to have vacated his

office, but a Member who is conscious of the fact that the meetings are being held

and due to his inability to attend the meetings had got prior approval of the

Council from not attending the meetings, cannot be considered as a person

absent from the meeting and absence of that nature for 3 consecutive meetings

would not result in vacating his office. The words 'absents himself for whatever

reasons, the words in the section, could be construed as, a Member who was

absent at 3 consecutive meetings without prior approval and subsequently

giving whatever excuse for his absence will not be accepted and condoned for his

7

absence at the said meeting. As Mr. Deepal Sooriya Arachchi has got prior

approval and excused himself from attending some meetings of the Council, he

cannot be treated as having vacated his office as a Member of the Council and,

therefore, his vote could be considered as a valid vote in the meeting held on the

8th of May 2012, the 2nd, 32nd and 33rd Respondents were elected by a vote of the

Members and, therefore, the position of the Council to recommend these 3

candidates to the 22nd Respondent for the post of Vice-Chancellor of the 1st

Respondent cannot be considered as illegal, unreasonable or was arrived at by a

procedural error and therefore, this Court holds that the Petitioner has not

established a case for this Court to issue a Writ of Certiorari to quash the decision

of the 1st, 3rd to 7th and 9th to the 21st Respondents to select the 2nd, 32nd and 33rd

candidates as suitable candidates for the post of Vice-Chancellor. In view of this,

the Petitioner's application is dismissed without cost.

President of the Court of Appeal

P.W.D.C.Jayathilaka, J

I agree,

Judge of the Court of Appeal