==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

. . -,

1

" ,

~

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

The Attorney General

Complainant

Vs.

Iddagodage Sarath Kumara

Accused

Court of Appeal Case No. C.A. 205/2008

H.C. Colombo Case No. 9698/98

Before

Counsel

Argued on

And Now Between

Iddagodage Sarath Kumara

Accused-Appellant

Vs.

The Attorney General

Respondent

Sarath De Abrew ,J. &

H.NJ. Perera,J.

Amila Palliyage for the Accused-Appellant

Haripriya Jayasundera, D.S.G. for the Attorney-General

23.04.2012 and 08.05.2012

Written Submissions

2

Tendered on 27.06.2012,31.07.2012 and 18.12.2013

Decided on 04.04.2014

Sarath De Abrew,J.

The Accused-Appellant and one W.P. Prasanna Perera alias Alli (2nd

Accused) were indicted in the High Court of Colombo for committing the

murder of Managamage Anura Wickramanayake on 02.01.1994 with one

Patapedige Athula Devendra who is now deceased, punishable under

Section 296 read with Section 32 of the Penal Code. After trial without a

jury, the learned trial Judge acquitted the 2nd Accused and convicted the

Accused-Appellant and imposed the death sentence on 11.01.2008. Being

aggrieved of the conviction and sentence, the Appellant had preferred this

appeal to this Court.

At the hearing of the appeal the learned counsel for the Appellant

urged the following grounds of appeal on behalf of the Appellant.

1). The learned trial Judge had erred in law by failing to consider the

vital omission marked by the defence on the evidence of prosecution

eye-witness, Nimashi at the trial in relation to her evidence at the

non-summary inquiry and thereby misdirected himself by placing

reliance on her credibility.

: .11

3

2) The learned trial Judge had failed to consider the evidence in favour

of the accused.

3) The learned trial Judge's findings in the Judgment are contrary to the

evidence adduced before Court.

4) The learned trial Judge had erred In law by attaching VICarIOUS

liability and convicting the appellant under common intention.

The facts briefly are as follows as elicited from the evidence of

the main prosecution witnesses, Ajantha Malkanthi, Sandya Kumari

and Sudheera Nimashi. The deceased Anura Wickramanayake was

the husband of witness Ajantha Malkanthi who were all residents of

Kotahena. On 01.01.1994 they have gone with their friends and

relatives to the Galle Face Green in a van to celebrate the new year.

While they were returning well past midnight in the van driven by

Ajantha's brother-in-law, Ranjith Ganegoda around 1.30 A.M, an

argument had had occurred between Ranjith and his wife who had

attempted to get off from the vehicle. At this point, Ranjith who was

driving the van, had stopped it near the laundry at Bloemendhal

Road, Kotahena. Ranjith had alighted and dealt a blow on his wife

at which point the children inside the van had started crying. Due to

4

the commotion, the accused appellant, Sarath, along with the 2nd

accused, AlIi and others had arrived at the scene. The appellant,

Sarath had uttered obscenities whereupon one Samantha who was

among the party in the van had dealt a blow on the appellant.

Thereafter the appellant had run back towards the laundry and had

returned with one Athula Devendra who had died before the

indictment was framed. According to witness Sandya Kumari the

appellant Sarath was armed with a manna knife while Athula

Devendra was armed with a kris knife.

Witnesses Ajantha,Sandya and Nimashi have testified as to

what they witnessed of the second stage of the drama from different

angles. Witness Ajantha had requested Athula Devendra and the

appellant not to interfere as this was a family dispute. Thereafter

Athula and the appellant had gone towards the van which was parked

nearby.

The van had been parked near the boutique called "Majeed"

close to the laundry. The street lights were burning at the time

enabling clear identification. The appellant Sarath and Athula

: ..

5

Devendra were known to witness Ajantha Malkanthi even before this

incident. Thereafter witness Ajantha had noticed her husband the

deceased fallen on the ground near Bloemendhal Road about 100

yards away from where the van was parked. She had noticed Athula

near her fallen husband and had heard witness Sandya shouting

"er§eDo) e;en". She had failed to notice the appellant Sarath nearby.

Witness Sandya Kumari too had joined the Galle Face trip party

with her husband and two sons and was a friend of the deceased party.

After the van stopped near the laundry and the shop called "Majeed",

while those who came in the van were attempting to resolve the

dispute between husband Ranjith and wife Kanthi, a crowd of male

youngsters had approached them from Bloemendhal Road to Wasala

Road, among whom was the accused-appellant Sarath. There had

been a heated exchange of words between this crowd and the party

who came in the van. The appellant and the others had run up Wasala

Road and the appellant had woken up Athula Devendra and brought

him to the scene. Witness Ajantha too had walked towards them

followed by witness Sandya. Ajantha had implored the appellant

Sarath not to create a problem stating" ~e:D ere5@cs5 ~e(5){9e:D

•

. - ,

6

gCS;)®;)G5~ " At this stage witness Sandya had observed that the

appellant Sarath was armed with a manna knife while Athula was

having a kris knife in his hand. They had walked towards the Majeed

boutique where the van was parked. The deceased Anura was about

15 feet away from the witness. Suddenly witness Sandya has

discovered that her two sons were missing and she called out to the

deceased Anura to help locate them. The deceased had gone towards

Bloemendhal Road in search of the children followed by witness

Sandya.

Thereafter witness Sandya had seen Athula chasing after the

deceased Anura and repeatedly stabbing him when the latter fell on

the ground inspite of her shouting" q~~O) ~O)". She had not

noticed the appellant Sarath at that stage.

Witness Sudheera Nimashi, elder daughter of the deceased

Anura and witness Ajantha, was only 10 years old at the time of the

incident. According to Nimashi, after the van stopped near the

Majeed boutique, she and her younger sister alighted from the van,

while her father the deceased went out and sat on the pavement

'.

7

opposite the boutique. There was a crowd of people among whom

was the appellant Sarath. She had seen the appellant approaching her

father the deceased and dealing a blow on her falter's head with a

manna knife. Thereupon the deceased had started running down

Bloemendhal Road chased by Athula Devendra. Witness Nimashi

and her sister had also run after their father. While they were

watching, she had seen the deceased falling down whereupon Athula

had repeatedly stabbed him with a knife. At that point she could not

remember whether the appellant Sarath was present. Thereafter

witness Sandya and Nimashi's mother Ajantha had approached the

scene and the deceased was rushed to the hospital in a three-wheeler

where he was pronounced dead. Witness Nimashi was the only

eyewitness who testified as to the accused-appellant attacking the

deceased with a weapon.

At the trial, other than the aforesaid main witnesses Ajantha

!

Malkanthi, Sandya Kumari and Sudheera Nimashi, the prosecution

has led the evidence of the doctor who performed the post-mortem

examination followed by police witnesses who conducted

investigations then attached to the Kotahena Police. The kris knife

l

~ {

1 I !

i ! ! \ 1

, 1 I 1 ! I

~ 1 4 , !

~ ,

~' ;

~ ! ! , I l I I I

J I I I f I I I !

I I I I I I I !

8

~ .

(P3) had been recovered from the scene itself while a manna knife

(PS) had been recovered subsequent to a Section 27 Evidence

Ordinance statement from Athula Devendra.

After the closure of the prosecution case the learned trial

Judge had called for the defence. The case record indicates that the 1 st

accused appellant had chosen to be silent while the 2nd accused had

made a brief exculpatory dock statement denying complicity.

I have perused the entirety of the Information Book extracts, non-

summary and trial proceedings, the judgment of the learned trial Judge and

finally the extensive written submissions and case law authorities submitted

by both parties at the hearing of the appeal. It is now left to consider the

several grounds of appeal urged on behalf of the appellant.

The main ground of appeal was that the learned trial Judge had erred

in law by failing to consider the vital omission marked by the defence in the

evidence of the prosecution eye-witness Nimashi to the effect that she had

failed to mention at the non-summary inquiry that she saw the appellant

attacking her father with a manna knife (Page 122 of the Record). A perusal

9

of the judgment of the learned trial Judge, on the contrary, indicates that the

learned trial Judge had extensively and explicitly considered the impact of

this omission (Pages 235-241 of the Record) on her credibility and had

arrived at a finding that this omission by itself would not affect the

credibility of a witness of the tender age of 10 years in the light of the other

evidence led at the trial. Due weight should be attached to the opinion of

the trial Judge unless it could be shown that the trial Judge has drawn

improper inferences from specific facts that are proved.

Further, in reviewing the veracity of a witness, the Appellate Court

may employ certain rules and guidelines to elicit the truth as the Appellate

Judges do not have the benefit of observing and questioning the witness

first-hand. One such rule is to delve in to the police statement of the

witness, not to use if as substantive evidence but to bolster a proper

inference as to the credit-worthiness of a witness, as enunciated by F.N.D.

Jayasuriya J in Keerthi Bandara vs Attorney General (2002) (2 SLR 245 at

page 261). In the instant case a perusal of the police statement of witness

Nimashi clearly indicates that she had explicitly mentioned witnessing the

appellant Sarath attacking her father with a weapon like a manna knife. A

perusal of her evidence at the non-summary inquiry also indicate that she

f 1 I 1 1 I j J

10

had testified that the appellant had attacked her father on the head while

seated before the boutique which is consistent with her evidence at the trial,

even though she had omitted to mention the use of a weapon like a manna

knife. Evidence of Sandya Kumari (Page 100 of the Record) corroborates

the fact that the appellant was armed with a manna knife.

Therefore the evidence of Nimashi at the trial that she saw the

appellant attacking her father with a manna knife cannot be construed a

deliberate concoction. Evidence must be weighed and the evidence of a

solitary witness, where her testimonial trustworthiness is not impeached,

could be acted upon by Court. Sumanasena Vs. Attorney General (1999) (3)

SLR 137.

In view of the above, the failure of the learned trial Judge to act on the

purported omission in the evidence of Nimashi at the non-summary inquiry

has not prejudiced the substantial rights of the appellant. Accordingly, the

main ground of appeal should fail.

The 2nd, 3rd and 4th grounds of appeal revolve on the question as to

the correctness and justification based on the evidence of the appellant being

convicted of the charge of murder on the basis of acting in common

I

t

f

i

fi

,

t,I,,,

1 -I I

I

J 1

J I j I , i I i i I

J I I I I I

I

11

intention with Athula Devendra in causing the death of the deceased. A

perusal of the judgment clearly indicates that the learned trial Judge had

come to a finding that the appellant was acting in furtherance of a common

intention with Athula Devendra in causing the death of the deceased. (Pages

254-259 of the Record).

Based on the 2nd, 3rd and 4th grounds of appeal, it was the contention

of the appellant that the learned trial Judge had erred in law by convicting

the appellant under common intention due to the following reasons.

a) The evidence of Ajantha Malkanthi and Sandya Kumari clearly

established that the appellant Sarath did not chase after the deceased

and was not present at the point Athula Devendra inflicted fatal

injuries on the fallen deceased

b) The learned trial Judge failed to consider in favour of the appellant

that no weapon was recovered from his possession and the manna

knife (P5) too had been recovered from the possession of Athula

Devendra found under the bed in his room.

c) The learned trial Judge had incorrectly stated in the judgment (Page

235 of the Record) that witness Sandya Kumari had testified that she i

Ir

I

I ,

1 J 1 f 1 f 1 i ! I , j

~ 1 I I I I i I

12

saw the appellant too chasing after the deceased with a manna knife,

which was contrary to her evidence.

d) There was no evidence of pre-arrangement or participatory presence

of the appellant along with Athula Devendra leading to a necessary

inference of sharing of common intention to cause harm to the

deceased.

On a perusal of the evidence led at the trial, other than with regard to the

contention c) above, I am inclined to conclude that the learned trial Judge

did not misdirect himself in convicting the appellant on the basis of

common intention for the following reasons.

a) When the van stopped near the laundry, the appellant had come with

others and uttered obscenities whereupon he was dealt a blow by one

Samantha who came in the van.

b) The appellant had run towards the laundry and returned with Athula

Devendra both wielding knives, leading to the inference of pre-

concert.

c) When they were requested to move away as this was a family dispute

they had walked past the parked van in the direction where the

deceased was seated opposite the Majeed boutique.

,i,

-.

13

d) Thereupon the appellant has drawn first blood by attacking the

deceased with the manna knife, in the presence of Athula.

e) Thereafter Athula Devendra had taken over simultaneously and

chased after the deceased and dealt fatal stab blows in furtherance of a

common murderous intention. Gnanapala and Nissanka V s. Attorney

General (C.A. No. 107-108/1997).

f) The fact that the manna knife (PS) apparently used by the appellant

was recovered from the possession of Athula Devendra under his bed

too could be construed that they were acting in concert subsequent to

the event too.

The very fact that it was the appellant who brought in Athula

Devendra, the fact that both were armed and finally the fact that the

appellant attacked the deceased first, to my mind, was sufficient to

establish a meeting of the minds and a sharing of a common intention to

harm the deceased, from which point the thread of vicarious liability

would run to bind the action of one to the other Once a participatory

presence in furtherance of a common intention is established at the

commencement of an incident, there is no requirement that both

perpetrators should be physically present at the culmination of the event

unless it could be shown by some overt act that one perpetrator

1 f I

J i I I ,

. '..

14

deliberately withdraw from the situation to disengage and detach himself

from vicarious liability. Therefore, the fact that the appellant, after

attacking the deceased with the manna knife, was not physically present

alongside when Athula stabbed the deceased would not absolve the

appellant from incurring vicarious liability on the actions of Athula.

A minute perusal of the Information Book Extracts would have

thrown further light of previous enmity and evidence of motive between

the deceased and the perpetrators, which the prosecuting State Counsel

had failed to grasp and lead at the trial, which would have perhaps

answered the pertinent question why the assailants attacked the deceased

In view of the above I am of the view that the Appellate Court

should not interfere with the conviction under Article 137 of the

Constitution. Accordingly, I affirm the conviction and sentence imposed

by the learned trial Judge and dismiss the appeal.

15

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

H.NJ. Perera,J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

; ( II !

\

~ t fff