==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for a writ of

Mandamus under Article 140 of the

Constitution of the Democratic Socia list

Republic of Sri Lanka.

*******

Dileeni Roshan Perera,

of No. 88, Kirula Road,

Colombo 05.

and presently

No. 14, Rue Jean Le Galleu

94200 Ivry Sur Seine

France.

PETITIONER

C.A. (Writ) Application No.682/2009

1

Vs

1. Hon. Jeewan Kumaratunga

Minister of Lands

Ministry of Lands

'Govijana Mandiraya'

No. 80/05, Rajamalwatte Rd,

Battaramulla.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

2

lA. Hon. Janaka Bandara

Tennekoon,

Minister of Land and Land Development 'Govijana Mandiraya'

No. 80/05, Rajamalwatte Rd,

Battaramulla.

2. The Acquiring Officer/Divisional

Secretary

Maharagama Divisional

Secretariat

Maharagama.

RESPONDENTS

: Oeepali Wijesundera J.

: A.R. Surendran PC for the

Petitioner.

Janak De Silva D.S.G. for the

Respondents.

: 03rd October, 2014.

: 16th December, 2014.

Oeepali Wijesundera J.

The petitioner's land described in the schedule to the petition

situated in Hokandara was acquired for a public purpose under the Land

Acquisition Act in 2003. Alleging that the land was not utilized for any

public purpose the petitioner had made an application under Sec. 39A of

the Land Acquisition Act to the Minister seeking a divesting order. Upon

the refusal of the said application the petitioner has made the present

application to this court seeking a writ of Mandamus against the 1 st

respondent directing the 1 st respondent to divest the said land to the

petitioner.

The Learned Counsel for the petitioner stated that the petitioner's

land was acquired to resettle the owners of the land acquired for the

Colombo Outer Circular Road Project but up to date the said land has

not been utilized for the stated purpose. The petitioner by letter dated

07/09/2009 has requested the 1 st respondent to divest the said land in

terms of Sec. 39 A of the Land Acquisition Act. The petitioner stated

under the provisions of Sec. 39(A) the Minister prior to divesting had to

fulfill four conditions citing the judgments in Minister of Lands

Irrigation and Mahaweli Development and Another 1993 1 SLR 283

and Rashid Vs Rajitha Senaviratne Minister of Lands and Another

2004 (1) SLR 312 said it was held that the entitlement to a divesting

3

order springs primarily from the fact that after vesting the land had not

been used for the public purpose for which it had been acquired.

The learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that all four

conditions in Sec. 39 A has been fulfilled by the petitioner. Namely the

petitioner was not paid any compensation, the land had not been utilized

for the public purpose, no improvements have been done to the land

and the petitioner has consented in writing to take possession of the

land immediately after the divesting order is published in the Gazette.

The petitioner's counsel cited a long list of judgments regarding these

four conditions and stated that under these circumstances this court has

powers to issue a writ of Mandamus against the 15t respondent

compelling him to issue a divesting order.

The learned Deputy Solicitor General for the respondent's

submitted that the relief sought by the petitioner under Sec. 39 A should

be refused as the conditions set out in 39 A have not been fulfilled and

even if the petitioner has fulfilled the conditions there still remains a

discretion given to the Minister to divest or not and as such no writ of

Mandamus lies. He stated that the said land is needed for another

public purpose and is been used for a public purpose.

4

Citing the judgments in De Alwis Vs De Silva 71 NLR 108,

Weligama Multi-Purpose Cooperative Society Ltd Vs Chandradasa

Daluwatte 1984 1 SLR 195, Samaraweera Vs Minister of Public

Administration 2003 3 SLR 64 stated that to issue a writ of Mandamus

there has to be a public duty. Therefore for the petitioner to succeed for

a writ of Mandamus against the 1 st respondent it must be established

the petitioner has a right to demand and the 1 st respondent to divest the

land in question has a corresponding public duty to do so under Sec.

39 A of the said Act and that the established position in law is that there

is no such right nor is there a corresponding duty on the 1st respondent.

The petitioner cited the judgment in Urban Development

Authority Vs Abeyratne and others S.C. No. 85/2008 decided on

01106109 where it was held that exercise of discretionary power vested

with the Minister by Sec. 39 A is not amenable to judicial review in an

application for a writ of Mandamus.

The respondent stated that by 2R16 and 2R17 it is evident that

sums of Rs. 9,600,000/= and Rs. 1,862,452.61 have been deposited in

the District Court of Homagama as compensation for the acquisition and

that merely due to the money not been taken by the petitioner, she can

not be heard to say that the requirement has been fulfilled. The counsel

5

for the respondent stated that the said land has been used for a public

purpose which is evident by 2R19 to 2R21 and cited the judgment in De

Silva Vs Athukorale 1993 2 SLR 283

The Deputy Solicitor General for the respondents stated that the

land forming the subject matter of this application is required for a public

purpose can not be questioned by this court as the Sec. 5 (1)

declaration has been made by the Minister which is produced as 2R7.

He further stated that Sec. 5 (2) of the said Act makes it conclusive and

takes it out of the scope of judicial review. He cited the judgment in

Urban Development Authority Vs Abeyratne and another S.C. No.

85/2008<101/2008 decided on 01/06/09 in this regard.

Respondents further submitted that approval for the change of

purpose was 14/10/2004 and the Sec. 5 (1) declaration was made six

months after the approval of the change of public purpose.

The petitioner's application under Sec. 39 (A) which has been

refused by the 1 st respondent was done due to the petitioner not

complying with four requirements. Compensation for the said land has

been deposited in court although the petitioner stated otherwise. The

6

said land has been made use of for another public purpose after steps

were taken under Sec. 5 (1) of the Act.

Sec. 5 of the Land Acquisition Act reads thus;

(1) Where the Minister decides under subsection (5) 0/ section

4 that a particular land or servitude should be acquired

under this Act he shall make a written declaration that

such land or servitude is needed for a public purpose and

will be acquired under this Act and shall direct the

acquiring officer 0/ the district in which the land which is

to be acquired or over which the servitude is to be acquired

is situated to cause such declaration in the Sinhala, Tamil

and English languages to be published in the Gazette and

exhibited in some conspicuous places on or near that land.

(2)A declaration made under subsection (1) in respect 0/ any

land or servitude shall be conclusive evidence that such

land or servitude is needed/or a public purpose.

(3)The publication 0/ a declaration under subsection (1) in

the Gazette shall be conclusive evidence 0/ the fact that

such declaration was duly made.

7

Once the Sec. 5 (1) declaration is done by the Minister Sec. 5 (2)

of the Act makes it conclusive and takes it out of the scope of judicial

review. Thus the question of whether the land forming the subject matter

of this instant application is required for a public purpose can not be

questioned in this court.

For the afore stated reasons the application of the petitioner is

dismissed with costs fixed at Rs. 25,000

c ~~~

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

8