==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A 838/98 F D.C Kegalle Case No: 23792/P

1. Patirannahalage Dingiri Banda, Atugoda. 2. Patirannahalage Punchi Banda, Atugoda.

Defendant- Appellants 1. Patirannahalage Alias Madurusighe Arachchillage Punchirala

2. Gamaralalage Punchi Menika, (deceased) 3 &2A .Madurusighe Arachchilalage Jayatilaka Banda 4. Madurusighe Arachchillage Shanthi Podimenika, All of Atugoda

1,3,4 Plaintiff-Respondents and 2A Substituted-Plaintiff-Respondents 2. Madurusighe Arachchillage Sadi Banda 3. Madurusighe Arachchillage Punchi Banda 4. Madurusighe Arachchillage Kiri Banda 5. Ganearachchillage Gunasekara

2nd-5th Defendant-Respondents

f \

1 I i

1

J

I

1 I s 1

~ i 1 ! I

1 I I

!

I

C.A 838/98 F

Before

Counsel

Argued & Decided on

K.T.Chitrasiri, J.

1

D.C KegaUe Case No: 23792/P

K.T. Chitrasiri, J.

Sunil Abeyrathne with Buddhika

Alagiyawanna instructed by Wimal

U dalagama for the 1 st

Defendant-Appellant.

Ajith Munasinghe for the 2nd and 3rd Defendant- Respondents.

J.P. Gamage for the Plaintiff -

Respondents.

05.11.2013.

All three counsel appearing for the parties concerned, bring to the notice

of court that the learned District Judge having answered the issue No:

06 affirmatively where he has accepted the prescriptive claim of the 1 st

and 6 th Defendant-Respondents made in respect of the entire land

sought to be partitioned, has finally allocated shares to the Plaintiff, 1st

Defendant and to the 2nd , 3rd and 4th Defendant-Respondents. Therefore,

they submit that the judgment on the face of it cannot stand. They

further submit that the learned District Judge in the first paragraph of

his judgment dated 13.10.1998 has observed that no statements of

claim have been filed by the Defendants in this case whereas the 1 st and

tII

!Iit1

2

the 6th Defendants and the 2nd and 3rd Defendants have filed their

statements of claim. Therefore, it is seen that even at the very outset,

the learned Judge has misdirected himself when he stated that no

statements of claim have been filed by the defendants. In the

circumstances, all three counsel move that this matter be sent back for

re-trial.

Issues bearing Nos: 1, 4, and 8 suggested by the three sets of

\

parties are to determine the original owner of the land sought to be

partitioned. Learned District Judge has not considered the evidence to

i

~ I

determine those three issues. It is the submission of all three counsel as

well. Furthermore, the deeds marked '3V1' to '3V6' also have not been

considered by the learned District Judge. II

t In the circumstances, it is seen that no reasons are assigned by

the learned District Judge to have come to the final conclusions referred

to in the impugned judgment. Neither has he properly evaluated the

evidence led.

At this stage, it is brought to the notice of court that the 4th

Defendant had died in the year 1993 whilst the case was pending in the

District Court. Counsel for the 2nd and 3rd Defendants informs court that

\ ! I 1 I !

3

the deceased 4th Defendant is the father of the 2nd and 3rd Defendant-

Respondents. The appeal brief does not show any substitution effected in

place of the deceased 4th Defendant -Respondent. Therefore, it is seen

that no opportunity was afforded to present the case of the deceased 4th

Defendant -Respondent after his death even when the case was pending

in the original court.

Accordingly, it is appropriate to make an order to have a trial de-

novo as suggested by all three counsel. For the aforesaid reasons, the

judgment dated 13.10.1998 is set aside. The learned District Judge of

Kegalle is directed to have a trial de-novo. He is also directed to hear

and conclude this case expeditiously.

Learned District Judge is further directed to ascertain the parties

who are dead and to direct the Plaintiff to take necessary steps in order

to substitute the heirs of those deceased parties. Accordingly, this

appeal is allowed without costs.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

Vkg/-t

I I