==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A. Appeal No. 68/2010 Balapitiya Case No. H.C.B. 719

The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Complainant Vs. Ponnamperuma Arachchige Premasiri

Accused And Now Ponnamperuma Arachchige Premasiri

Accused-Appellant Vs. The Hon. Attorney General Attorney General’s Department Colombo 12.

Respondent

I 1 I 1

C.A. 68/2010

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

H.C. Balapitiya Case No: HCB 719/04

Sisira J. de Abrew ,J. (Acting P / CAl &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

Amila Palliyage for the Accused-Appellant.

Rohantha Abeysooriya DSG. for the Respondent.

29.11.2013

********

Sisira J. de Abrew,J. (Acting PICA)

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases. The accused-

appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of a woman named

Hettiyawattage Rosalin and for raping said Rosalin. He was on the charge

of murder, sentenced to death. On the charge of rape he was sentenced to a

term of 20 years Rigorous Imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs: 20,000/-

carrying a default sentence of two years simple imprisonment. Being

aggrieved by the said conviction and sentence he has appealed to this court.

Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as follows:

The victim Rosalin in this case was a 72 year old woman. Premasiri and his

wife Delika were living 15 meters away from the victim's house. On

13.08.1998 around 11.45 p.m. Premasiri woke up as he wanted to go to the

toilet. He then heard Rosalin screaming. Premasiri thereafter with his wife

went to the house of Rosalin. They then saw the front door of Rosalin was

half opened. Thereafter they saw the accused-appellant who was without

clothes on the body of Rosalin. Premasiri's wife Delika specifically says

that the accused-appellant at this time was performing sexual intercourse

on Rosalin. She also says that the accused was holding the neck of

Rosalin. The accused-appellant at this stage got down from the bed and

threatened both witnesses with death if they divulge this incident.

Following morning the grandson of Rosalin found Rosalin dead. The

medical evidence confirms the fact that Rosalin had been raped. Rosalin

had died due to suffocation. Accused had denied the incident. The learned

counsel appearing for the accused-appellant submits that there are no

compelling grounds to challenge the conviction. We have gone through the

evidence and find no reason to interfere with the judgment of the learned

trial Judge. In our view the prosecution has proved the case beyond

reasonable doubt. We therefore affirm both convictions and the sentences.

We dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Jmrj-