==== BLOCKS ==== 

1 ! ' ' I ·

-1-

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an Application under Article 140 of the Constitution for a mandate in the nature of a Writ of Certiorari.

1. Mohamed Haneefa Abdul, Senior Lecturer, Department of Arabic Language, South Eastern University of Sri Lanka, Oluvil.

C.A. (Writ) Application No. 878/2010

2. Mohamed Lebbe Issadeen,

Senior Lecturer, Department of Social Sciences, Faculty of Arts and Culture, South Eastern University of Sri Lanka, Oluvil.

3. M.F.H. Careem,

Senior Assistant Registrar, South Eastern University of Sri Lanka, Oluvil.

Presently of P.O. Box No.345014, International Academic Sity, Dubai, U.A.E.

! I i j I

-3-

7.

8.

Prof. Uma Coomaraswamy, No.104, 2/2, Manning Place,

Colombo 6.

Sunil Kannangara, Government Agent, District Secretariat, Ampara.

9. M.M. Abdul Kalam, No.1B, Ocean Tower,

Station Road, Colombo 4.

10. Anver M. Mustapha, ClMS Campus Level 11,

1269/2/C, Cotta Road, Rajagiriya.

11. Dr. S.L. Fiyas, Centre for Peace Studies,

170A, Haniffa Road, Kalmunai.

12. Prof. Dayantha Wijesekera, No.7, Barnes Avenue, Mount Lavinia.

13. L.R.S. Bandara, 24/83, 1, Udarigama, Uhana.

14. Y.M. Anver Siyath, No.72, SLFP Secretariat.

Samanthurai.

-4-

15. Dr. F.C. Ragel,

Senior Lecturer, Faculty of Applied Sciences,

South Eastern University of Sri Lanka, University Park, Oluvil.

16. Dr. A. Jahfer, Head of the Department of Accountancy and Finance, F acuity of Management and Commerce, South Eastern University of Sri Lanka, University Park, Oluvil.

17. Prof Malik Ranasinghe, Vice Chancellor, University ofMoratuwa, Moratuwa.

18. Prof. Rohan Rajapakse, Active Vice Chairman, University Grants Commission, No.20, Ward Place,

Colombo 7.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued on

Decided on

Malinie Gunaratne, J.

-5-

19. H. Abdul Saththar, Thaha Lodge, No.7 A, Main Street, Ninthavur.

RESPONDENTS.

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J. (PICA)

W.M.M. MALINIE GUNARATNE, J

Manohara de Silva, P.C. for the Petitioner.

Anusha Samaranayake, S.S.C. for P\ 2nd, 5th to 13th, 15th to 18th Respondents.

M.U.M. Ali Sabry, P.C. for 19th Respondent..

09/07/2013

09/09/2013.

This is an application filed by the Petitioners against 19

Respondents seeking to challenge the appointment of the 19th Respondent

as the Registrar of the South Eastern University.

f!

i

-6-

It is the case of the Petitioners, by advertisement published III

newspapers, applications were called for the post of Registrar of the 15t

Respondent University; and to the best of their knowledge six applications

including the application of the 3rd Petitioner and the 19th Respondents

have been received. The 19th Respondent submits the 3rd Petitioner was

not a considered candidate nor was he at least called for interview and he

is not even in the country. Further submits, thus he cannot challenge the

impugned appointment.

In terms of the said advertisement, the persons with the following

qualifications were eligible to apply.

a) A graduate who possess a PHD or a Masters Degree with

research in Administration or Management or other relevant

fields with not less than 12 years administrative experience,

OR,

b) A graduate with Masters Degree by examination or a

Diploma in Administration or Management with not less than

fourteen years Administrative experience, OR,

( c) Internal candidates who are eligible in terms of the University

Grants Commission Circular No. 657 of 19.12.1995.

The Petitioners submitted the 19th Respondent does not have the

required qualifications/experience and therefore he is not eligible to apply

for the post of the Registrar of the University. The 19th Respondent holds

a Masters Degree by examination an.d he must have not less than 14 years

-7-

of administrative experience. It is the submission of the Petitioners that

the 19th Respondent does not have the required 14 years of administrative

experience to be appointed to the impugned post. The

Respondents submitted they have considered and accepted the 19th

Respondents work experience as Assistant Registrar, in addition to the

work experience, as an Assistant Manager Lanka General Trading Co.

Ltd. and Assistant Manager/Sales and Marketing Global Converters and

Promoters Ltd. They further submitted that they accepted the 19th

Respondent's period of service in the aforesaid places as satisfying

requirement of 14 years of Administrative experience contained in sub

paragraph (b) in P 2. The Respondent had considered and calculated the

experience as follows.

Assistant Manager Sri Lanka Trading Corporation Ltd. - Three (3) years and three (3) months;

Assistant Registrar -UPDN/SECUL - Four (4) years and nine (9) months;

Senior Assistant Manager SEULIPGIM - Six (6) years and five (5) months. Fourteen (14) years and five (5) months.

The 19th Respondent submitted the 1 st Respondent had considered

the post of Assistant Manager of Sri Lanka State Trading Corporation, is

an administrative experience calculating 14 years of experience. The

experience gaim.~d at Global Converters and Promoters Ltd. also had

considered as equivalent to administrative experience as defined in the

Scheme of Recruitment.

-8-

Th~ 19th Respondent submits, however, the said 14 years experience

claimed by him is only the experience gained in the service of Assistant

Registrar of University ofPeradeniya, 1st Respondent University and

Deputy Registrar of Post Graduate Institute of Medicine, University of

Colombo. He further submits therefore the calculation of Graduate

Teacher and Assistant Manager (Sales and Marketing) of Global

Converters and Promoters will not arise.

Paper advertisement published in the newspaper for the post of

Registrar is marked as P2 with the Petition, defined "administrative

experience". It covers different types of experience. The 19th Respondent

submits, on previous oc~asions the University Grants COlllIllission had

considered the experience in the Post of Assistant Manager of Sri Lanka

State Trading Corporation as Administrative experience within the

definition of administrative experience, in appointing the 19th Respondent

to the post of Assistant Registrar of University of Peradeniya and other

posts. Accordingly the I st Respondent has accepted and considered the

19th Respondent's experience as equivalent to administrative experience as

defined in the Scheme of Recruitment.

As the appointing authority, University Grants Commission has

taken the decision to appoint the 19th Respondent to the Post of Senior

Assistant Registrar. The 1st, 2nd, 5th to 18th Respondents submitted,

University Grants Commission's definition of the term administrative

experience was considered acceptable by them as well. The Respondents

have considered the 19th Respondent's 14 years administrative experience

correctly and therefore the view of the Court is, the 19th Respondent has

the required 14 years administrative experience to be appointed to the

I I

-9-

impugned post, and there is no merit in seeking to set aside the

appointment of the 19th Respondent on this ground.

The Petitioners further submit, that to the best of their knowledge,

the 19th Respondent has stated in his application that he holds a

Masters Degree in Business Administration, become aware he has failed

to complete the said degree course. The 19th Respondent's submission is

that he did not submit results of a Masters Degree nor the 1 st Respondent

taken such qualifications in selecting for the post of Registrar. Further he

submits the Petitioners have repeatedly attempted to mislead this Court

submitting false facts. It is disclosed by the 19th Respondent,

Consolidated mark sheet marked 19R 5A shows the said Masters Degree

is not only by examination but also with two semesters projects reports. It

shows the 19th Respondent has qualified for the award of Masters Degree.

The 1 st, 2nd, 5th to 18th Respondents submit, the required qualification is a

Masters Degree or a Diploma in Administration or Management and since

the 19th Respondent has a Masters Degree in Human Resource Planning

and Development from the Guru Gobind Singh Indraprasatha University

of India, whether or not the 19th Respondent has a Masters in Business

Administration was irrelevant to his appointment. Thus the 19th

Respondent is eligible to apply for the post of Registrar and not submitted

any false information nor suppressed material facts.

The Petitioners further submit, in his application the 19th

Respondent has willfully suppressed the fact that he served as a Graduate

Trainee Teacher in 1991 and that he was served with a vacation of post

notice with effect from 14.02.1991. Further submit in terms of Paragraph

18:12:1 of the Establishment Code of the University Grants

I

-10-

Commission, persons who have vacated their posts should not be

appointed to any post in the Commission or any Higher Educational

Institution without prior approval of the Commission. The 19th

Respondent has admitted he was served with a Notice of Vacation of post

with effect f{om 14.02.1991 by the Divisional Education Office of

Ninthavur, but subsequently been reinstated in service with effect from

13.01.1995. Further states that the said period treated as a period of

approved no pay leave and after the said period he had served in the

capacity of Assistant Registrar, Senior Assistant Registrar and Deputy

Registrar, under the University Grants Commission. In proof thereof the

relevant letters of appointment is annexed to the Petition marked as 19 R6

- 19 R8. The 19th Respondent further submits, on previous occasions, he

had been considered by the University Grants Commission, as eligible to

be appointed to tl:e said posts and the said vacation of post was not an

obstacle to be appointed to the said posts.

The Petitioners submit, clarification with regard to the credentials

furnished by the 19th Respondent had not been sought from the Provincial

Ministry of Education of the Eastern Province. But the P\ 2nd, 5th, 8th,

10th, 13th, 15th to 18th Respondents submit, an appointment letter issued on

8th November 2010 appointing the 19th Respondent as Registrar, subject to

a probationary period of one year and prior to the expiration period, the

University has obtained clarifications from the Ministry of Education of

the Eastern Province, marked and annexed as 2 R 2 with the affidavit filed

by the Vice Chancellor. It is stated the 19th Respondent had been served a

I

-11-

vacation of post notice, but he had been reinstated in service as a graduate

teacher, treated as no pay leave. It is the submission of the Respondents,

since the 19th Respondent's services had been restored, there was no need

to obtain the prior approval of the University Grants Commission.

Accordingly the vacation of post necessarily does not make the 19th

Respondent an ineligible candidate. He had been reinstated in service and

the period of vacation of post had been considered as approved no pay

leave. After the said period he had served in Universities under the

University Grants Commission. In the circumstances the said notice of

vacation of post is not an obstacle to the 19th Respondent to be appointed

to the post of Registrar.

As the appointing authority, University Grants Commission has

considered the 19th Respondent's application and decided to appoint him

to the Post of Senior Registrar~ Petitioners alleged the, 1 st Respondent

University had adopted an irregular procedure in appointing the 19th

Respondent to the Post of Registrar. In order to obtain a Writ of Certiorari

as prayed in the Petition, the Petitioners must prove that the decision of

the respondents was illegal, arbitrary and irregular procedure had been

adopted. Court is ill equipped to pronounce that the decision of the

University Grants Commission is arbitrary, illegal or unr~asonable unless

there is concrete evidence to establish that the Commission in taking such

a decision has violated and acted contrary to the laws of the land.

I

-12-

It is the submission of the Petitioners that great prejudice would be

caused to the student community of the 1 st Respondent University, the

staff and the entire administration of the University, if the 19th Respondent

is appointed to the Post of Registrar. It is disclosed by the Respondents

the 19th Respondent has presently been confirmed in his post and has been

functioning as Registrar since his appointment in 2010. Petitioners have

not disclosed any complaint against him of any malpractice or

misconduct whilst in service in the 1 st Respondent University, or after he

assumed duties as well.

The Petitioners have filed this application in public interest. If an

application is made in public interest, the Petitioners have to establish that

they have a public interest in the relief they sought and that has to be

specifically averred. The mere fact that they are Senior Lecturers or

Registrars of the University and great prejudice would be caused to the

student community will not be sufficient to invoke the Jurisdiction of a

Court in public interest.

Lord Justice Atkin in Re. V s. the Electricity Commissioner (1924) 1

K B 171 of 205, has given the circumstances in which a Writ of Certiorari

will lie. Held - "Where anybody of persons having legal authority to

determine questions affecting the rights of subjects and having the duty to

act judicially acts in excess of their legal authority, they are subject to the

controlling jurisdiction of the Kings Bench Division exercised in these

Writs'".

1

•

-13-

The Petitioners have not submitted to Court or shown any illegality

or procedural irregularity in appointing the 19th Respondent as the

Registrar of the South Eastern University and for the above reasons this

Court dismisses this application without costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

S. SRISKANDARAJAH (PICA)

I agree

President Court of Appeal