==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an Appeal in terms of

section 331 of the Criminal Procedure

Act No. 15 of 1979

C A No. 216/2012

H.C. Batticaloa Attorney General,

Case No. 2512/07 Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

Sathasivam Chandrakanthan

Accused

AND NOW BETWEEN

Sathasivam Chandrakanthan

Accused Appellant

1

Attorney General,

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

Respondent

BEFORE H.N.J. PERERA, J

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE,J

COUNSEL Dr. Ranjith Fernando with

Samanthi Rajapaksha for the

Accused Appellant.

P. Kumararatnam D.S.G. for the

Respondent.

2

'-

ARGUED ON 25.11.2014

DECIDED ON 26.02.2015

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J

Kumutha ChandraKanthan was a Management Assistant attached to a

Government Department in Batticaloa. Her husband ChandraKanthan was

unemployed after his return from overseas. Both of them were living with her

mother in a house owned by the mother. Kumutha and ChandraKanthan

quarreled very often for two reasons, namely, ChandraKanthan being

unemployed and their not having children. One day Kumutha had been injured

in a quarrel and she had to make a complaint to the police. Thereafter she

went to live with her elder sister. Mother too sold the house and went to live

with one of her daughters. Even after that ChandraKanthan came to see

3

III

f

~ titI

,I

f1

Kumutha in the evenings as a habit. He used to take her away and bring her

back after one to two hours. Though Kumutha's sisters did not like him,

Kumutha wanted to live together with him as he was a poor person.

05.01.2006 being a Hartal day, Kumutha did not go to work. Around 6.30 in the

evening, Kumutha who was at her sister's, went out saying her mother that

husband wanted her to accompany him to give some advance for a house.

Mother knew that they were looking for a house on rent to live in, separate

from others. That was the moment her mother and sisters saw her last.

Mother went to her elder daughter's house in search of Kumutha. Kumutha's

sisters were of the opinion that there was no need to worry because she had

gone away with her husband. Next morning, they came to know that

Kumutha's dead body had been lying on a road in a jungle area.

Sathasiwam ChandraKanthan, the Accused Appellant was indicted for

committing the murder of Kumutha ChandraKanthan punishable under Sec.

296 of the Penal Code and convicted for the said charge after trial and

sentenced to death.

Being dissatisfied with the said conviction and the sentence, the Accused

Appellant has preferred this Appeal to this Court.

The investigating officer who went to the crime scene on a telephone call

received by him about the crime had observed that the dead body of Kumutha

4

had been lying on the back with her neck slashed. He has found a knife, a

mobile phone and a pair of slippers by the road in a short distance away. The

Judicial Medical Officer had observed the cut injury across the neck pierced

through the windpipe which he had categorized as a grievous injury which

cause the death in the ordinary course of nature. There were no signs

suggestive of being raped as there were no external lacerations and contusions

on the face, breasts or female genitals.

Akilson who was a ten year old boy had testified that the Accused Appellant

came to their place at about 7.00 in the evening and asked for his bag which he

had kept under the bed on a day when he had a fight with Kumutha. The

Accused Appellant had been arrested at the Fort Railway Station on

11.01.2006 at 21.15 hours. The police sergeant who arrested the Accused

appellant who had been on guard duty in the Fort Railway Station had stated

that he arrested the Accused on suspicion for staying in the Railway Station for

a longtime.

The learned counsel for the Accused Appellant submitted that the prosecution

case is entirely dependent on circumstantial evidence. He pointed out that the

learned trial judge has considered the items of circumstantial evidence as the

links of a chain, but he contends that it has to be considered as codes of a

cable. The items of evidence available before trial court were (1) Accused being

5

last seen with the deceased, (II) the mobile phone found at the scene and (III)

the arrest of the Accused Appellant at the Colombo Fort Railway Station. The

contention of the counsel for the Accused Appellant was that there couldn't be

an irresistible conclusion that only the Accused Appellant could have

committed the crime.

The learned Counsel for the Respondent made the following submission. The

Accused Appellant had come to the place where he had kept his bag and

collected something from the bag and left in the evening of the date of the

incident. It was the time that the deceased left her mother by saying that she

was going out with her husband, the Accused Appellant. The Accused

Appellant has been arrested when staying at the Colombo Railway Station in a

suspicious manner for a long time. He emphasized that evidence of the

prosecution witnesses has not been challenged.

The learned trial judge, in her judgment, has stated that the circumstantial

evidence linked together like in a chain implicating the Accused of the crime.

With the said observation, she has come to the conclusion that in the absence

of any acceptable explanation from the Accused when considering evidence of

the case as a whole, it was the Accused who had committed the murder from

which he has no escape.

6

It was held in sixty eight years ago in the case of, King V. Gunarathna (1947,47

NLR 145) that,

N In a case of circumstantial evidence the facts given in evidence may taken

cumulatively, be sufficient to rebut the presumption of innocence, although

each fact, when taken separately, may be a circumstance only of suspicion. "

Cannon J, in that judgment has referred to Regina V. Exall (176 English Reports,

Nisi Prius, at. P. 853) where it has been stated that" It has been said that

circumstantial evidence is to be considered as a chain, and each piece of

evidence as a link in the chain, but that is not so, for then, if anyone link broke,

the chain would fall. It is more like the case of a rope composed of several

cords. One strand of the rope might be insufficient to sustain the weight, but

three stranded together may be quite of sufficient strength."

Will in his "Circumstantial Evidence ( Fifth Edition)" has quoted from Burnett's

Criminal Law of Scotland (1811) that "circumstantial are inflexible proofs. They

will not bend to the inclinations of parties. Witnesses may be mistaken; may be

corrupted; things can be neither; and therefore, so far as they go, deserve

unlimited, unreserved faith"

Will has quoted from principles of Moral and Political Philosophy of Paley that

"Circumstances cannot lie".

7

I

If the items of evidence available taken individually, namely, suspicious

behavior of the Accused Appellant of collecting something from his bag

immediately prior to the leaving of the deceased informing her mother that

she was going out with the Accused Appellant, finding of the Accused

Appellant's mobile phone near the dead body at the crime scene, Accused

Appellant's waiting at the Colombo Railway Station in a suspicions manner

they directly connect the Accused Appellant with the crime in a less strong

manner. But when they are knitted together as one whole, then it becomes

one unit that connects the Accused Appellant in a much stronger manner.

Though the learned trial judge has described those items of evidence as the

links of a chain, they actually appear as codes of a cable. Therefore, this court

is of the view that the learned trial judge has correctly convicted the Accused

Appellant for the charge of murder leveled against him. As such this court

affirms the conviction and the sentence passed by the trial judge and dismiss

the Appeal.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

H.N.J. PERERA J

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL