==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE

DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

C.A Case No. 254/96(F)

Nambi Ralage

Rajakaruna,

Bogahawewa,

Medhawachchiya.

Plaintiff

D.C. Anuradhapura case No. 14273/L

Vs

1. Ukkurala Bandage

Sirisena,

2. Ukkurala Bandage

J ayathilaka,

Both of them at

Aluth Halmillawa,

Bogahawewa,

Medhawachchiya.

Defendants

And Now Between

N am bi ralage

Raj akaruna,

\ J I

1

Aluth Halmillawa,

Bogahawewa,

Medhawachchiya.

Plaintiff-AppeUan t

Vs

1. Ukkurala Bandage

Sirisena,

2. Ukkurala Bandage

J ayathilaka,

Both of them at Aluth

Halmillawa,

Bogahawewa,

Medhawachchiya.

Defendants-

Respondents

2

Before W.L.R.Siilva & A.W.A. Salam,J.

Counsel Mahanama de Silva for the Appellant

Priyantha Alagiyawanna for the Defendant Respondents

Written submissions filed on: 14.10.2011

Decided on 10.08.2012

A.W.Abdus Salam,J.

The question involved In this appeal is whether an action for

ejectment can be maintained without the plaintiff first seeking a

declaration of title to the property of which the defendant is

alleged to be in wrongful possession. The Plaintiff filed action

against the defendant praying inter-alia for the ejectment of the /

defendant and damages. The plaintiff averred that the original

owner of the subject matter of the action was one Punchirala

Jayasinghe and he by deed No 8641 dated 5th September 1990

transferred it to the plaintiff.

The plaintiff specifically averred that he came into possession of

the subject matter on 5th September 1990 and the defendants

on 10th March 1991 entered the land without any authority and

let the cattle graze on the land. The defendants in their answer

countersued the plaintiff for a declaration of title on prescriptive

possession and moved for a dismissal of the plaintiff's action.

The dispute proceeded to trial on several issues and the

3

following issues are noteworthy.

1. Was one Punchiralage J ayasinghe the original owner of

the land described in the schedule to the plaint?

2. Did Punchiralage Jayasinghe by deed No 8641 dated 5th

September 1990 transfer his rights to the plaintiff to

enable the plaintiff to possess the land?

3. Did the defendants without any manner of title on or

about 10th March 1991 enter the land and obstruct the

plaintiff's possession?

4. As a result of the unlawful acts of the defendant, has the

plaintiff suffered damages at the rate of Rs.500 / -a

month?

The issues suggested by the defendants include the following.

1. Is the subject matter of the action an ancestral land of the

defendants?

2. Has Ukkuralage Banda, father of the defendants had

improved the said land and possessed it for a period of more

than 30 years?

3. Having possessed the property for 30 years have the

defendants acquired a prescriptive title to the same? /

4. Is the deed produced by the plaintiff bearing No 8641 a

forgery?

5. If the above issues are answered in the affirmative should

the plaint be dismissed?

4

At the trial both parties adduced evidence and the learned

district judge by judgment dated 17 May 1996 dismissed the

plaintiffs action, as he was of the opinion that the plaintiff has

failed to establish the ingredients necessary to obtain relief in a

,

possessory action. Further the learned district judge held that /

in any event the plaintiff has not established the identity of the

corpus.

As regards the second finding, I need only to say that the

question of the identity of the subject matter was never an issue

raised in the case and even the pleadings of the defendants were

on the basis that the subject matter of the action is not meant

to be put in issue. Inasmuch as the plaintiff prayed for the

ejectment of the defendants, the defendants also prayed for a /

counter relief based prescriptive possession. This clearly shows

that the parties were not at variance on the question of the

identity of the corpus. In this background, the observation of

the learned district judge as to the alleged failure to establish

the identity of the subject matter is uncalled for.

The pivotal question for determination in this appeal is whether

the learned district judge is justified in identifying the nature of

the action instituted by the plaintiff as a possessory action and

that the plaintiffs action should fail for want of proof of

ingredients necessary to obtain relief in such a case. Basically,

on a perusal of the pleadings, particularly the plaint, it is hardly

possible to conclude that the action filed by the plaintiff is for

possessory relief. The plaintiff clearly pleads a chain of title on

5

which he places reliance for his case. So much so when giving

evidence the plaintiff produced a deed which is not pleaded in

the plaint but without any objections from the defendants.

Besides, the plaint does not allege dispossession of the plaintiff

from the subject matter of the action. On a close scrutiny of the /

plaint it is seen that the plaintiff has complained of disturbance

caused by the defendants to his possession by the defendant

having let the cattle to graze at the pasture on the land in

question and not dispossession. This clearly shows that the

action of the plaintiff is not one founded on possessory

remedies. Even the answer filed by the defendants is on the

basis that the plaintiff is not the owner of the subject matter of

the action and that the deed by which the plaintiff has

purchased rights is a forgery. Above all the defendants have set

up a claim on prescriptive possession seeking the relief that

they be declared entitled to the land on that account.

It is trite law that once the issues are framed the pleadings

recede to the background. In this case, the issues raised by the

parties and accepted by the trial judge are indicative that the

parties have never proceeded to trial on the basis that the action

filed by the plaintiff is one that can be characterized as a

possessory action. The issues framed by the plaintiff are based

on title and the unlawful possession of the defendants. The /

main issues suggested by the defendants centres round the

question as to whether the defendants are entitled to the corpus

by right of prescription which is a recognized mode of

acquisition of title. Therefore, it would be correct to observe

that both the plaint and the issues of the plaintiff contemplated

6

on a regular action to eject the defendants from the subject

matter in terms of Section 21 7 ( c ) or ( e ) of the Civil Procedure

Code. For ready reference section 217 of the Civil Procedure

Code (without the inapplicable parts) are copied below.

217. A decree or order of court may command the person against whom it operates-

(C) to yield up possession of immovable property;

(E) to do any act not falling under anyone of the foregoing heads;

(F) not to do a specified act, or to abstain from specified conduct or behaviour, or it may, without affording any substantive relief or remedy-

(G) to declare a right or status

The question that arises here is whether it is permissible for a

plaintiff in a regular action to obtain an order of ejectment of the

defendant who is in unlawful possession of his property without

seeking a declaration of title to the same. In the case of T.B.

Jayasinghe Vs Kiriwanegedara Tikiribanda 1988 2 The Colombo

Appellate Law Reports, Page 24, it was held that Section 35 of

the Civil Procedure Code contemplates two types of actions

namely the recovery of immovable property and declaration of

title to properties. By this judgement, the court clearly held

that the action for recovery of immovable property is quite

distinct and different from an action for declaration of title. In

this respect, the judgement in the case of Gordon Fraser & Co

Ltd Vs Jean Marie Losis and Martin Wenzel 1984 Sri Lanka Law

7

Report, Volume 2, page 86, is of much assistance to resolve the

dispute at hand. In that case, this court clearly held that a

plaintiff can seek an injunction to restrain the defendants from

committing an act, the commission or continuance of which

would produce injury to the plaintiff, as a substantive relief. A /

decree granting such substantive relief is permissible in terms

of section 217(F) of the Civil Procedure Code without a prayer

for declaratory relief.

that a plaintiff is entitled in terms of section 217 (F) of the Civil

Procedure Code without a prayer for declaratory relief to obtain

substantive relief an injunction to restrain the defendants from

committing an act the commission or continuants of which

would produce injury to the plaintiff as a substantive relief. /

It is quite interesting to note the manner in which the trial judge

has answered issue No.1. Issue No. 01 is whether one

Punchirala Jayasinghe was the owner of the land in question.

This, the learned district judge has answered as being

"probable". This means that in the opinion of the trial judge the

plaintiff is the owner of the corpus on a balance of probability.

The next issue is whether the said Punchirala had transferred

his rights to the plaintiff by deed No 8641. This, the learned

district judge has answered as being not clear to him as to

whether Punchirala has transferred his rights to Jayasinghe or

not. In the circumstances, it appears that the learned district

judge was in a state of confusion with regard to his duty to

answer the issues raised on the evidence led at the trial and

that he has misapprehended the plaintiff's action to be one of

8

• possessory actions.

In the circumstances, as the findings of the learned district

judge had resulted In a miscarriage of justice, the impugned

judgement cannot be allowed to stand. For the foregoing /

reasons, I am of the opInIOn that the judgement must be Ii reversed and the case remitted to the district judge for re-trial in

due course.

The appellant is not entitled to his costs.

A W A Salam, J

~~. JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL /

W L R Silva, J

I agree

J~OURT OF APPEA

LAj-

9

.\