==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

M. Don Hemantha Kumara Perera

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

C.A 98/2010

H.C. Anuradhapura 88/2001

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Sunil Rajapaksa J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 01.

RESPONDENT

Wijedasa Rajapaksa P.c., with N. K. Tissa Yapa

For the Accused-Appellant

Shanil Kularathne s.s.c. for Respondent

03.04.2014

13.05.2014

1

2

GOONERATNE J.

The Accused-Appellant in this appeal was convicted of murder and

sentenced to death. The date of incident of murder as stated in the indictment

was on 29th November 1990. The facts of this case could be briefly stated as

follows.

One of the witnesses called by the prosecution states (Sumith Anura

Kumara) he was a soldier attached to the Palaly Camp and served in a unit of the

camp at Wasavilan school as described by him in his evidence. In that place there

had been a platoon of about 35 soldiers, and he and others in the platoon

occupied an abandoned houses, in the vicinity. The witness gives the details of

persons who were occupying these house, i.e Lt. Atapattu, deceased Soldier

Dushantha Perera the Accused who was a corporal in the Army. The incident took

place at about 1.25 p.m in the afternoon and the witnesses had been cooking at

that time. It is also in evidence that there were others attending to various other

functions. Then he heard a noise of a gun-shot from behind, from the place he

was seated and cooking. The kitchen was about 10/15 feet outside the house.

Thereafter the witness stood up and looked through the window towards the

t i 1 , 1 ! I I 1 I I I 1 1 I I I I I i j I t I 1 1

1 ! , 1 ! I 1 j I j I

1 I 1 j l

3

direction where there were others. He saw the deceased fallen. The evidence on

that was followed by another question:

c: ~ (pg. 155)

Further examination on this point by State Counsel reminding the

witness about the evidence he gave in the Magistrate's Court, the witness states

he saw the Accused going from behind ..... ~ cSO>esx!Q C!DJe@ ~), ~

~) ~l:.). This witness also states he saw a gun near the place the deceased

was fallen. He also saw the Accused running. The prosecution also relies on a

confession.

The learned President's counsel Mr. Wijedasa Rajapaksa in his

submissions referred to several inconsistencies, lapses and contradictions in the

prosecution case and also demonstrated to court the alleged confessions to be

contrary to the provisions of the Evidence Ordinance and other legal provisions

and also emphasized about the misdirection of learned High Court Judge in the

judgment delivered in the trial court. Learned Senior State Counsel Shanil

Kularatne very correctly, having considered the prosecution version submitted to

court that he is unable to support the conviction.

4

The 1st witness called by the prosecution is an officer in charge of

discipline in the Army. He had received information initially of suicide and

thereafter on his own inquiries he states it was not a suicidal attempt but the

deceased had been shot, also having regard to information provided by the

Medical Officer. This witness had recorded a statement of the Accused person

and stated the Accused was not threatened and no complaint by Accused against

him. Defence counsel had objected to recording of a confession and placing it as

evidence but the High Court Judge has not made a proper ruling on same but

state that after considering all the evidence in the case the trial Judge will decide

on the admissibility of evidence.

When an objection is taken that the purported confession was not

voluntary or even no objection is taken, court must decide whether the

confession was voluntary or not. On Voir/Dire and admissibility of confession.

Accused need not prove inducement, threat etc. burden is on the prosecution to

establish voluntariness and establish relevancy. King Vs. Weerasamy 43 NLR 152

1 NLR 209; 57 NLR 132; 73 BLR 154 at 177 -178. Court need to be extra cautious.

In the case in hand the prosecution does not seem to have shown the absence of

invalidating circumstances set out in Section 24 and must prove beyond

reasonable doubt. It is not proved in this case.

5

The principle to be applied is to avoid the risk of admitting false

confession or confessions made under duress in the existing state of affairs, may

be in the police or even Army. The trial Judge should have held the voir-dire

inquiry and satisfied on the voluntariness as and when the objection was raised,

since the witness is a superior officer in the Army who has authority over the

Accused. Abuses and unfair advantages, 60 NLR 313 at 319-320, need to be

checked and tried by the trial judge. A mere answer of an admission and that the

Accused failed to challenge the confession should not be the only deciding factor.

Trial Judge has not attempted to rule out abuses of unfair advantages, since

witness' evidence thereafter suggest very many lapses deliberate or otherwise

within the Army, to conceal evidence. Trial Judge need to be extra cautious if a

need arises to rule on a confessions. Somarathna Rajapakshe Vs. Attorney-

General 2010 (2) SLR 113 held:

"Considering the powers and the authority the Military Police Officers have over the

persons in their custody, combined with the gravity of the charges, the detention

incommunicado, and the inaccessibility to lawyers to practice the rights of such persons

in their custody would be paramount necessity to include a Military Police Office also

into the definition of "Police Officer" in terms of Section 25 of the Evidence Ordinance.

Accordingly the confessions made to Military Police Officers by the Appellants are

inadmissible and therefore cannot be used against the Appellants."

I l I

J

I I , I

6

The evidence of the official witness from the Sri Lanka Army

appears to be highly unreliable. The witness in charge of the armory was

compelled to adjust details of weapons, Nos., etc in the register maintained

for the purpose. There is material to suggest that alterations were done to

enable the heirs of the deceased to get same benefit. If it was a suicide the

Army Regulation do not permit payment of compensation or damages.

We also find that the learned High Court Judge relied on the

dictum of Lord Ellen borough as in Rex Vs. Cocharane and held defendant

has failed to adduce evidence to exonerate him.

The above dictum could be applied when there is strong prima

facie case established against the Accused. In M.A. Sammy and other Vs.

Attorney General 2005 BLR Vol. Xi pg. 68, Ellen borough dictum was

analysed.

"This dictum has been applied in Sri Lanka both in cases of circumstantial and

direct evidence. It must be noted that in the following case this dictum was

applied where a strong prima facie case had been made out against the accused.

On a careful survey of these cases it is manifest that a condition precedent to the

application of this dictum is that there must exist a strong prima facie case made

out against the accused."

7

When we consider the evidence led before the High Court and the

material suggested to this court by the learned President's Counsel, it is very

unsafe to act upon the prosecution version. In view of the several matters

stated above we have to intervene and interfere with the judgment of the

learned High Court Judge. We cannot allow the conviction to stand. As such,

we set aside the conviction and sentence, and allow the appeal.

Appeal allowed.

N.S. Rajapaksa J.

I agree.

~-y~~q ~;;; OF ;HE COURT OF APPEAL

~~~?~ JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

III

!

I,

~fI!