==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A . Application No. 721/2009 (Writ)

In the matter of an application under Article 140 of

the Constitution in the nature of Writ of Certi.Jrari

and Mandamus.

Ratnapura Dewage Sherlin,

Walmeegoda, Meegahatenna.

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. Commissioner of Aurvedic,

Department of Aurveda,

Old Kottawa Road, Nawinna,

Maharagama.

2. Director General of Pensions,

Maligawatte Secretariat,

Colombo-l0.

3. The Secretary,

Pradeshiya Sabawa,

Matugama.

4. Hon. Attorney-General,

Attorney-General's Department,

Colombo-12.

RESPONDENTS

!f£Il !Ij

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERATNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Deepali Wijesundera, J

K.V. Sirisena for the Petitioner.

Yuresha Fernando SC for Respondents

12.09.2013

12.12.2013

2

The Petitioner is an Aurveda Doctor (Grade 1) with so many years

of experience as pleaded in the petition. Petitioner retired from service on

31.07.2005 after serving the Aurveda Department and local government

institution. Her complaint is as regards the calculation of pension and gratuity.

Writ of Certiorari is sought to quash determination P9,Pl0 and P12 and for a writ

of mandamus to compel the respondents to pay the pension and gratuity as per

documents P8. Documents P9 and Pl0 are salary conversions pertaining to the

petitioner and P12 is the award of pension.

I!f!

III

\I!I

II

t !I

\

i Ii

i I I I I i I I I

3

It was the position of the petitioner that by P3 the Director General of Pensions

made arrangements to pay a pension and gratuity as per para 7 of the petition.

The learned counsel for the petitioner as pleaded in the petition drew the

attention of this Court to document P4, PS, P6, P7 and P8 to demonstrate the

position of the petitioner as regards several salary conversions, discrepancies and

discrepancies between salary conversions in several public administration

circulars. She complains that after retirement petitioners salary was drastically

reduced , and as a result pension and gratuity was also reduced illegally and

arbitrary. By P13 the petitioner explains her position and had appealed to

Aurveda Commissioner. Counsel also submits that a complaint was made to the

Human Rights Commission ( Vide P14, P1S and P16). Document P16 is a

recommendation in favour of the petitioner by the Human Rights Commission.

Petitioner place much emphasis on document P17 and P18. Petitioners counsel

vehemently argued that gratuity and pension need to be calculated and shoufd be

paid as in document P8 which is her last drawn salary, and that the matters

stated in P9,Pl0 and Pll are illegal and the acts of the l st_3 rd respondents in this

regard is also illegal, capricious and against the law of the country.

• 4

At the hearing of this application the learned State Counsel objected to a writ

being issued inter alia on the basis of laches. It was the position of the State

Counsel that the petitioner has delayed in filing this application and had not given

any acceptable explanation for the delay. As such this application should be

rejected on laches alone. In the objections of the respondents the following

matters are pleaded and this Court is possessed of all those points pleaded

therein.

i. The Petitioner retired with effect from 31st July 2005, whilst serving as an

Ayurvedic medical practitioner attached to the Pradeshiya Sabha

Mathugama.

ii. Originally the Pension of the Petitioner was calculated based or, the

information submitted by the 3rd respondent which was based on PA

Circular 9 of 2004.

iii. Subsequently this has been corrected as it was informed that the applicable

circular was the Health Ministry circular 9 of 2003.

iv. Consequently the Pension of the Petitioner was calculated based on the

said Circular 9 of 2003.

v. The Petitioner has been paid her Pension since 30th July 2005 and at

present she is receiving a sum of Rs. 20,695.38 monthly.

• 5

Delay defeats equity. The documents sought to be quashed are all dated 2005

and 2006. This application has been filed on or about 23.10.2009. There is an

unexplained delay of about 3 years. In Seneviratne Vs Tissa Dias Bandaranayake

and another 1992 (2) SLR 341 at 345. Per Amerasinghe, J {{ If a person were

negligent for a long and unreasonable time, the law refuse afterwards to lend

him any assistance to enforce his rights ....... Law refuses to assist those who sleep

over their rights and not vigilant." Prerogative writs are not to be granted as a

matter of course or as a matter of right or as a routine in Jayaweera Vs Assistant

Commissioner of Agrarian Services 1996 (2) SLR 70/73.

Further the minutes on pension enacts that it does not create absolute rights.

The main complaint of the petitioner is that the calculation of pension and

gratuity is on an erroneous basis. This Court is not equipped to make corrections

on arithmetical calculation or on the basis of arriving at a figure to pay a pension

or a gratuity. Such disputed question are not well suited to be considered in writ

application. Please see Thajudeen Vs Sri Lanka Tea Board and another 1981 (2)

SLR 471.

6

In all the above circumstances we are not inclined to grant relief to the

petitioner in this type of application. As such we refuse this application and

dismiss this application without costs.

Deepali Wijesundera, J

I agree.

~ '4py~

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Kpm/-