==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

S. H. Jayantha Kumara,

Accused -Appellant

C.A. Appeal No. 298/09

H.C. Hambantota No. 283/2007

Before

Counsel

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General,

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

Respondent

SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J. &

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA, J.

Shanaka Ranasinghe P.C. with Dilun

Jayasekera for the Accused-Appellant.

Yasantha Kodagoda D.S.G. for the Attorney General.

1

2

Argued on 01,07,2013 & 02.07.2013

Decided on 02.07.2013.

Sisira J. de Abrew, J.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

After arguing the case learned President's Counsel appearing for the

accused-appellant agrees to sustain convictions on charges of

robbery.

We observe that the prosecution has not established that the

accused-appellant was armed with a gun at the time of the

robbery. Investigating officers have failed to recover any gun from

the accused-appellant. As such it will be difficult to maintain the

charge relating to the posseSSIOn of a gun. Learned D.S.G.

appearing for the Attorney General concedes this position.

According to the 1st charge, the accused-appellant has committed

the robbery of jewellery worth Rs. 15,000/-and Rs. 4,500/- .

ft

3

According to the 2nd charge, the accused-appellant has robbed a

motor cycle worth Rs. 72,000/-. Court is therefore of the opinion

that the charges under Section 380 of the Penal Code (charges of

robbery) can be maintained. According to the evidence, the accused

-appellant has been present in the house of the complainant at the

time of the robbery.

Three months after the robbery S.1. Manjula Thusara attached to

Crime Detective Unit of Tangalle Police Station has arrested the

accused-appellant when he was riding a motor cycle. The motor cycle

has been identified by the prosecution witnesses as the motor cycle

robbed from their house. Prosecution witnesses further say that the

motor cycle was in their compound at the time of the robbery. This

suggests that the accused-appellant has participated in the robbery of

jewellery and the motor cycle. The accused-appellant in his dock

statement has however denied the way in which he was arrested

described by S.1. Thusara. When we consider the evidence led at the

trial, we are of the opinion that both charges of robbery have been

established beyond reasonable doubt.

Considering the submissions of the learned President's Counsel that

is to say that he is agreeable to sustain convictions of robbery on

4

both counts, and the other available evidence, we convict the

accused-appellant for robbingjewelleryworth Rs. 15,000/-, and Rs

4,500/- from the possession of Sujeewa Senanayake which is an

offence punishable under section 380 of the Penal Code (in respect of

count No.1) and for the robbery of motor cycle worth Rs. 72,000/-

from the possession of the Ajith Prasanna Senanayke which is an

offence punishable under section 380 of the Penal Code. (in respect of

count 2). On the 1st count we sentence the accused-appellant to a

term of 10 years rigorous imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs.

5,000/-carrying a default sentence of 6 moths simple

imprisonment. On the 2nd count we sentence the accused-appellant

to a term of 10 years rigorous imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs.

5,000/-carryIng a default sentence of 6 months simple

imprisonment. We make order that the both terms of imprisonment

should run concurrently. Therefore the total term of imprisonment

that he has to undergo is 10 years rigorous imprisonment in

addition to the default sentences.

In view of the said conviction, we set aside the conviction on count

No. 1 (for being in possession of a fire arm at the time of committing

the robbery in respect of both counts). We also set aside the life

imprisonment imposed on both counts.

•

fI

5

Learned President's Counsel informs court that the accused-appellant

s j...,...,u..J.cA ~ is now on bail. The sentence imposed by this court eetHd: be

implemented from the date on which he surrenders to the trial court

or is brought before the trail court. The accused -appellant shall

submit to his bail.

Subject to the above variation of the convictions and the sentence,

the appeal is dismissed. The learned High Court Judge is directed to

issue a fresh committal.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

/mds

! 1

1I!I i f t I I ! ; "