==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I

"

1,

1

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A.48(2012

Warnekulasuriya Fernando,

Jude

Accused-Appellant

Vs.

The Attorney General.

Respondent

Fransis

H.C. Chilaw Case No: 03(2012

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

Sisira J. de Abrew,J. (Acting PICA) &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

Accused-appellant is absent.

Wasantha Nawaratna Bandara DSG. for the A.G.

31.01.2014

1

f

f

I

1 i I I

Sisira J. de Abrew,J.(Acting PICA)

Mr. Samantha Fermando Attorney-at-law is present in Court. He

submits that he received instructions to file the petition of appeal and that

he, acting on the instructions received by him from the accused-appellant,

he filed the petition of appeal. But thereafter he did not receive any

instructions from the accused-appellant. The accused-appellant who was

tried in absentia is absent today as well. Mr. Samantha Fernando attorney-

at-law submits that he has not received any instructions from the accused-

appellant to appear for him today. Today is the date for the argument of

this case.

We therefore acting under Section 325(2) decide to take up the

appeal. Mr. Samantha Fernando Attorney-at-law who is present in Court is

at liberty to address Court. He does not address Court. Learned DSG.

made submissions.

Heard learned DSG. in support of this case. The accused-appellant in

this case was convicted for committing the offence of grave sexual abuse

on a girl named Warnakulasuriya Nilanka Hansini and was sentenced to a

term of 10 years Rigorous Imprisonment,to pay a fine of Rs: 10,000/-

carrying a default sentence of six months imprisonment and to pay a sum

of Rs: 100,000/ - as compensation to the victim carrying a default sentence

of two years Rigorous Imprisonment. Being aggrieved by the said

conviction and the sentence he has appealed to this Court. According to the

2

~[ili

i S

~tI(

facts of this case on the day of the incident, victim Nilanka and Sujeewani

were going in search of their friend Dilhara. They went to the house of

Dilhara, and were returning home. When they were returning, they passed

the compound of the accused-appellant. At this stage the accused-appellant

told them that Dislhara was watching T.V. in his house. Thereafter both

Dislhara and Sujeewani went inside the house of the accused-appellant. As

they entered the accused-appellant closed the door of the house and

undressed the cloths of both girls. Sujeewani however manage to escape

from the house and was waiting near the house of the accused-appellant.

The accused appellant thereafter kept his mail organ between thighs of

Nilanka and committed grave sexual abuse on Nilanka. Thereafter the

accused came out of the house and threatened both girls not to divulge

this incident to anybody. However Sujeewani one month later brought this

matter to the notice of her aunt. The said aunt brought this matter to the

notice of the parents of Nilanka who made a complainant to the Police.

When Nilanka gave evidence, Nilanka stated that she made a

complaint to the Police two years after the incident. This appears to be a

mistake. Nilanka was admitted to the hospital on 23.07.1998. The incident

has taken place on 24.06.1998. Therefore it appears that the complaint

has been made one month after the incident. Police Officer says that victim

Nilanka was produced before the Doctor soon after the complaint was made.

We therefore hold that when Nilanka said the complaint was made two

years after the incident it was a mistake. Accused did not give evidence as

3

IIl,!t!

l-f

t

I

!f

~tfII

I1,

at the time of the close of the prosecution case he absconded. We have

considered the evidence led at the trial and are of the opinion that the

prosecution has proved its case beyond reasonable doubt. We therefore

'2---- refuse"a to interfere with the judgment and the sentence imposed by the

learned trial Judge. We affirm the conviction and the sentence and dismiss

the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

Acting President of the Court of Appeal

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake,J.

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Jmrj-

4

i

¥,iff,

trf

f!!r

trI