==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA PHC/217/2005 PHC Anurahapura Writ 51/2003

A. Fernando Anuradhapura.

Appellant Vs. Municipal Council Anuradhapura.

Respondent

rA IPHC)'" 217/2005 PHC Anurahapura Writ 51/2003

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED &

DECIDED ON

K.T. CHITRASIRI. J.

K.T. Chitrasiri, J. &

P.R. Walgama, J.

Petitioner-Appellant is absent and

unrepresen ted.

D. Karunaratne for the Respondents.

27.01.2015.

Petitioner Appellant is absent and unrepresented.

The Registrar of this court, pursuant to the preparation of briefs,

has issued notices to all the parties directing them to be present in Court

in order to collect the briefs. The Appellant has not responded to the said

notice. Thereafter this Court once again has directed the Registrar to

issue notices to the Appellant and to his Registered Attorney.

Accordingly, Registrar by his letter dated 17.10.2014 has sent notices to

the appellant and to his Registered Attorney directing them to be present

in this court today. Even though the said notice had been sent under

registered cover to the address given in the Petition of appeal neither the

1

Appellant nor his Attorney is present In Court today. Therefore, this

matter is taken up for consideration.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the Judgment dated

29.06.2005 of the Learned High Court Judge, Anuradhapuraya. By that

Judgment, learned High Court Judge dismissed the petition filed by the

Petitioner- Appellant by which he has moved for a writ of certiorari to

quash the notice sent by the Chairman Municipal Council,

Anuradhapuraya. The said notice had been marked as PII with the

petition filed in the High Court and is found at page 62 in the appeal

brief.

Learned High Court Judge having considered the material before

him has stated that the Appellant is not entitled to prevent the law

being implemented by the authorities. Having stated so, he has decided

that the Respondents are entitled to file action in the Magistrate court in

accordance with the said notice marked PII that had been sent to the

Appellant. Accordingly, learned High Court Judge has dismissed the

petition filed by the Petitioner-Appellant. I

In the circumstances, it is clear that the Respondents are taking

steps to implement the law. When those steps are taken by the

Respondents, the Appellant has the right to present his position before

the appropriate forum at the correct time. Accordingly, we do not see

2

any reason to interfere with the order of the learned High Court Judge.

For the aforesaid reasons this appeal is dismissed.

Appeal is dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.R. Walgama, J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

CN/-

3