==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA C.A. (PHC) No. 164/2010 P.H.C. Balapitiya No. 798/2010 M.C. Balapitiya No. 7490

W. Sunil Karandeniya.

Petitioner Vs. Commissioner Agrarian Development Galle District.

Respondent

1

C.A. (PHC) No. 164/2010 P.H.C. Balapitiya No. 798/2010

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

M.C. Balapitiya No. 7490

K. T. Chitrasiri, J &

W.M.M. Malinie Gunarathne, J.

D.M.G. Dissanayake for the Respondent-

Responden t -Appellan t

M. Jayasinghe S.C. for the Plaintiff-Petitioner -Respondent

16.09.2014

K. T. Chitrasiri. J.

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases.

At this stage learned Counsel for the appellant submits

that his application to this Court is merely to obtain an opportunity to

show cause, before making an order by the Magistrate on the

application made in the case bearing No. 7490 filed in the Magistrate's

Court.

2 "

Learned State Counsel submits that he has no objection to

afford an opportunity for the appellant to show cause as to why an

order should not be made as prayed for in the application filed in the

Magistrate's Court.

Having perused the order of the learned High Court

Judge, this Court observes that his decision is to direct the learned

Magistrate to proceed with the matter in terms of the Provisions

contained in the Act No. 46 of 2000. Therefore, it is clear that the

said order of the learned High Court Judge does not prevent the

appellant showing cause before the Magistrate making an order on

the application filed by the respondent. Accordingly, we are not

inclined to interfere with the findings of the learned High Court Judge.

However to make it clear, we direct that the learned

Magistrate should afford an opportunity for the appellant to show

cause before making an order in the application filed under

Section 33 (3) of the Act No. 46 of 2000 and to proceed with the

matter as directed by the learned High Court Judge.

Accordingly, we do not see any reason to interfere with

the decision of the learned High Court Judge.

II

!

III

i

I

3

For the aforesaid reasons, this appeal IS dismissed

without costs.

Appeal dismissed

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

M.M.M. MaUnie Gunarathne, J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

jmds