==== BLOCKS ==== 

I 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for mandates

in the nature of writs of Certiorari and

Mandamus under Article 140 of the

Constitution of the Democratic Socialist

Republic of Sri lanka.

*******

1. T.M. Samantha Lalinda

Priyadharshaka

Mountainholt Estate

Ambalanwatte, Galle.

2. D. Kushani Poorna De Silva

"Kushani", Pinidiyamulla Rd

Payagala.

3. Anoja Erandi Munasinghe

"Shriyani", Munasinghagoda

Maggona.

4. M.D. Udaya Priyankara

Gunathilaka

No. 58, Tissa Road,

Wadduwa.

5. N.D. Indunil Ruwini

Wijayatilake

Kurunduwatte Road,

Uggalbada, Kalutara North.

6. Don Pradeep Janaka

Edirisinghe

"Church View", Katugoda,

Waga.

1

C.A. Application No. 1047/2008 (Writ)

2

7. U.c. Renuka Ranatunga

"Piyananda", Marapona,

Ratnapura.

8. K.A C. Ananda

Wickramanayake

Nilapaladeniya Watta,

Alawwa Rd, Warakapola.

PETITIONERS

Vs

1. Sabaragamuwa University of Sri

Lanka.

P.O. Box 02, Belihuloya.

2. Prof. Mahinda S. Rupasinghe

Vice Chancellor

Sabaragamuwa University of Sri

Lanka, P.O. Box 02,

Belihuloya.

3. Ven. Galagama Buddhananda

Thero.

4. Father Nicholas Fernando

5. M.M. Rafeek

6. Piyatissa Ranasinghe

7. L.D. Warnasuriya

8. c.J.R. Samarawickrama

9. c.J. Gunaseela

10. Dr. P.B.A Jayalath

11. Prof. M.U. Jayasekera

12. Dr. AAY. Amarasinghe

13. Prof. K.B. Palipane

14. Mrs. J.A.S. Jayakody

3

15. Mr. DAI. Dayaratne

16. Mr. H.M.S. Priyanath

Members ofthe Council

Sabaragamuwa University of Sri

Lanka, P.O. Box 02,

Belihuloya.

17. D. Jasinghe

Director, External Degrees

Programs and Extension

Services Unit, Sabaragamuwa

University of Sri Lanka,

P.O. Box 02, Belihuloya.

18. University Grants Commission

No. 20, Ward Place,

Colombo 07.

19. Prof. S.Y.D.G. Samaranayake

Chairman, University Grants

Commission, No. 20, Ward Place

Colombo 07.

20. Prof. M.T.M. Jiffry

Vice Chairman, University

Grants Commission, No. 20,

Ward Place, Colombo 07.

21. Prof. Carlo Fonseka

22. Prof. Rohan Rajapakse

23. Prof. S.K. Sitampalam

24. Prof. S.B.S. Abayakoon

25. Prof. H. Janaka De Silva

Members of the University

Grants Commission, No. 20,

Ward Place, Colombo 07.

RESPONDENTS

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

Deepali Wijesundera J.

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

: Jagath Wickramanayake with

M.Doss for the Petitioners.

Chaya Sri Nammuni S.C. for the

Respondents.

: Ogth October, 2014

: 28th September, 2015

The petitioners have filed this application seeking writs of

Certiorari to quash the decision of the respondents refusing to permit

the petitioners to continue the final year course leading to the award of

B.Sc. Agri Business Management (General) External Degree and for a

writ of Mandamus directing the respondents to permit the petitioners to

continue the final year of the said degree course.

In September 2003 the 1 st respondent has announced the

commencement of Agri Business Management Courses offering

certificate and diploma course in Agri Business Management which

provided that a successful completion of the above would entitle

4

students for a final year course of B.Sc. in Agri Business Management

(General) External Degree. The official prospectus issued by the 1 st

respondent is marked as P1 and a letter sent by the Director External

Degree Programs and Extension Services Unit Sabaragamuwa

University to the Manager Human Resources Seylan Bank is marked as

P1 (a). 1 st to 8th . Petitioners have enrolled themselves to the above

program and successfully completed the certificate and diploma stages

in Agri Business Management in February 2006 this certificates are

marked as P6(a) to P6(f). The respondents had failed to commence the

final year offering the B.Sc. in Agri Business Management as promised

at the beginning of the course. The petitioners have written to the

respondents for which no response was received after which they have

complained to the Ombudsman and the Human Rights Commission.

The Ombudsman having concluded the inquiry recommended to the

University Grants Commission the 18th respondent to grant approval for

the 1st respondent to conduct the B.Sc. Agri Business Management

External Degree Course. The HRC though said the petitioners' human

rights have not been violated had recommended to the 1st and 18th

respondents to conduct the external degree program.

The learned counsel for the petitioners stated that the Senate and

the University council had initially granted approval for the External

Degree Program which can be seen in the minutes of the council

5

meeting produced as 2R3 with the statement of objections of the

respondents. The degree program tabled in the 18th respondent's

commission by the 1 st respondent was later withdrawn owing to

pressure and agitations by the internal students of the university. The

petitioners stated that the aforesaid decision of the 1 st respondent had

been made arbitrarily and without affording a fair hearing to the

petitioners who were already registered as students of the course in Agri

Business Management.

The petitioners stated that they had a legitimate expectation to

complete the external degree in Agri Business Management. Referring

to the P1 prospectus the petitioners stated the words 'proposed external

degree' as averd by the 1st respondent specifically implies that on

completion of the diploma they would be eligible for a B.Sc. external

degree. The petitioners also referred to the letter marked P1(a) which

clearly indicated an offer of a B.Sc. external degree in Agri Business

Management upon completion of the diploma. The petitioners argued

that this conduct of the respondent has given rise to a reasonable and

legitimate expectation in the petitioners that they would be offered an

external degree in Agri Business Management. Citing the judgments in

Council of Civil Service Union vs Minister of Civil Service (1985)

AC 374 and Wickramaratne vs jayaratne (2001) 3 SLR 161 and R vs

Inland Revenue Commissioners ex.p camacq Corp (1990) 1 WLR

6

191 stated that legitimate expectations were engineered by the conduct

of the respondents.

The petitioners further stated that by initially obtaining approval for

the external degree program and later moving to withdraw the same on

the grounds of student agitations by the 1 st respondent without giving a

hearing to the petitioners is a violation of the rules of Natural Justice by

the respondents. The petitioners cited the judgments in Cooper vs

Wandsworth Board of Works (1863) 143 ER 414, Fernando vs

Jayaratne 78 NLR 123 and stated decision of the 1 st respondent to

withdraw the proposal of external degree program from the 18th

respondent commission is in breach of the principles of Natural Justice

and therefore is invalid in law. The petitioners also stated that the 1 st

respondent has abused its discretion in doing so.

The learned counsel for the respondents submitted that students

were not enrolled for the third year since the third year awards a degree

for which the approval of the 18th respondent the UGC was required and

this program had not been passed by the UGC, and that the petitioners

were students who had completed the first two years and had obtained

the diplomas after completion.

7

The respondents stated after the petitioners filed the instant

application the 1st respondent have formulated an external degree

course in B.A. in Agri Business Management which was willing to

absorb the petitioners.

The respondents stated the document P1 is only a prospectus

which merely highlights the intention of the course to be launched for

which the 1st respondent obtained council and Senate approval, and

P1 (a) is a letter sent by the 1st respondent calling for students for the

said course.

Referring to 1 R1 the respondents stated applications were called

only for the first and second years and that there is no mention of a third

year. Respondents stated for a degree program, approval of the UGC is

needed under Sec. 29(1) and (9) of the Universities Act.

Respondents further stated that the respondents have now

commenced a new program and to compel the respondents to allow the

petitioners to a third year is futile since this course does not exist now.

Citing the judgments in A.G. Peiris vs K.V.M. Gunasekera and

8

another 66 NLR 498 stated that it was held writs will not be issued if it

is futile.

The petitioners have applied for the Diploma Course and the

external degree program based on the prospectus P1 which indicates

the course the petitioners were getting enrolled. Although the

respondents argued that P1 merely highlights the intention of the course

and is an outline of what is sought to be done the petitioners

applications were made based on P1 which gave an assurance to the

applicants what they will be getting once their applications are accepted.

This gave petitioners a legitimate expectation to complete the external

degree in Agri Business Management. The respondents in paragraph 14

of their objections filed have stated thus;

liThe respondents while admitting the averments

contained in paragraph 18 of the Petition further states that

the course has indeed continued towards the completion of

the Diploma stage as promised in the Prospectus marked Pl.

The Respondents further state that they were faced with

serious difficulties in continuing the program to a degree

level due to protests by the internal students and had no

9

choice but to decide against the introduction of the degree

stage".

This clearly indicates that they intended to offer the external

degree once the diploma stage was completed.

The document marked P1 (a) specifically states that the external

degree in Agri Business Management will be offered after the

conclusion of the diploma course. The respondents tried to distort what

the letter P1(a) indicates by saying "document P1a was sent to

companies advertising the first phase of the program enrolling only for

the first and second years".

P1 (a) states thus;

This programme has a new approach contrary to other external

degree programmes in this country. The procedure of this course

is as the follows.

1st step:

2nd step:

After successfully completing the first yearl student

is offered the Professional Development Certificate

in Agri Business Management (PDC).

After successfully completing the second yearl

student is offered the Diploma in Professional

Studies in Agri Business Management (DPS).

10

I I

3rd step: After successfully completing the third year, student

is offered the B.5c. in Agri Business Management

This very clearly indicates that an external degree programe was

offered to the petitioners when they applied. The respondents tried very

hard to mislead this court on both these documents which very clearly

stated that the 3rd step is an external degree in Agri Business

Management. The petitioners enrolled themselves to the degree

programe offered by the 1st respondent intending to obtain a B.Sc.

external degree in Agri Business Management.

The 1 st respondent had initially obtained approval for the external

degree program in the Senate and the council and submitted the

proposal for the approval of the 18th respondent the UGC, but later it

was withdrawn on the ground of student agitation. The petitioners who

enrolled for the Diploma program expecting to continue with the external

degree in the third year was not given a hearing on the change of

program, this amounts to a breach of the principles of Natural Justice.

The decision made by the 1 st respondent to withdraw his proposal

for the external degree program without taking into account the loss

11

caused to the petitioners amounts to an abuse of its discretion to decide

on academic matters of the university and amounts to Ultra Vires.

For the reasons stated above I decide to issue a mandate in the

nature of a writ of Certiorari to quash the decision of the respondents to

withdraw the external degree program and also issue a writ of

Mandamus to compel the respondents to commence the said external

degree program as prayed for by the petitioners in this petition.

~~J

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

12