==== BLOCKS ==== 

•

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Basnayake W anniarchchilage Charl~es

Respondent-Petitioner-Appellant

Vs CA (PHC) 22/99 HC Hambanthota HCA88/97

Before

Counsel

Argued on Decided on

Margret Punya Wamakulasuriya

Sisira de Abrew J & Anil Gooneratne J

Respondent-Respondent

W. Dayarathne PC with Samantha Bandara for the appellant.

Respondent is absent and unreprented.

13.12.2010 11.2.2011

Sisira de Abrew J.

On a complaint made by Gunathunga Wamakulasuriya, the owner

of the land in question, that his due share not being paid by the ande

cultivator, the Assistant Commissioner of Agrarian Services (hereinafter

referred to as the Assistant Commissioner) held an inquiry. After the inquiry

the Assistant Commissioner by his notice datedI9.12.90, directed the

appellant to pay due share to the said Gunathunga Wamakulasuriya. The

assistant Commissioner, by his order dated 20.5.93, informed the appellant

that his ande rights had come to an end as he had failed to comply with

2

previous direction issued on 19.12.90 and further directed that the vacant

possession of the land be handed over to said Gunathunga Warnakulasuriya

within 30 days from the date of the letter. The appellant did not comply with

the said direction: The Assistant Commissioner upon the death of

Gunathunga Warnakulasuriya substituted his wife in the room of said

Wamakulasuriya. As the appellant did not hand over the possession of the

land, the learned Magistrate upon an application made by the Assistant

Commissioner made an order evicting the appellant.

On 8.12.1997, the appellant filed a petition in the High Court

movmg for (a) writ of certiorari to quash the direction issued by the

Assistant Commissioner on 20.5.93 (b) writ of certiorari to quash the

substitution effected by the Assistant Commissioner on 27.9.96 and (c) writ

of mandamus compelling the Assistant Commissioner to withdraw the case

filed in the Magistrates' Court.

Learned PC for the appellant contended that substitution of the

wife of Gunathunga Warnakulasuriya is wrong as there is no such provision

in the Act. I now advert to this contention. The best person to be substituted

in the room of the husband is his wife. There can't be any objection to this

substitution. I am therefore unable to agree with this submission. The

appellant did not hand over the vacant possession of the land within 30 days

from the direction dated 20.5.93. Thus the ande rights of the appellant have

come to an end on 20.6.93. Therefore the appellant has no right to take any

objection to the said substitution. The learned High Court Judge in his order

observed these matters.

3

The appellant having participated at the inquiry before the

Assistant Commissioner, intentionally withdrew from the inquiry which was

being conducted in accordance with the procedure established by law. Writ

of mandamus and certiorari being discretionary remedies will not available

to a person who displays such a conduct.

For the above reasons, I hold that the learned High Court Judge

was right when he dismissed the appellant's petition. In the circumstances I

dismiss the appeal as thee is no merit in it.

Appeal dismissed.

Anil Gooneratne J

I agree.

~·r1J.~ Judge of the Court of Appeal

~ .... ~Cr~ UC)· c:--f Judge of the Court of Appeal