==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA Case No. CA 666/98 F DC Ampara 249/L

D. D. Kusumawathie 16 , Hela, Madaanagama, Damana.

Plaintiff -Vs- K. G. Dharmadasa, Thimbirigolla , Madawalalanda

Defendant And K. G. Dharmadasa, Thimbirigolla , Madawalalanda

Defendant - Appellant -Vs- D. D. Kusumawathie 16 , Hela, Madaanagama, Damana.

Plaintiff-Respondent

, I

1

C.A.No. 666/98(F) D.C. Ampara No. 249/L

BEFORE K. T. CHITRASIRI, J.

COUNSEL Sanath Singhege instructed by Kaminda de Alwis for

the defendant- appellant

v. Puvitharan with S. Kalugamage for the plaintiff-

respondent

ARGUED AND

DECIDED ON 28th January, 2014

*********

K. T. CHITRASIRI, J.

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the judgment dated

29.06.1998 of the learned District Judge of Ampara. In the petition of appeal

the defendant-appellant (hereinafter referred to as the defendant) also sought

for a judgment in his favour. The defendant in his answer has prayed to have

the plaint be dismissed whilst seeking for a declaration that he is the person

who is legally entitled to possess the land referred to in the schedule to the

answer filed by him.

2

The plaintiff-respondent (hereinafter referred to as the plaintiff) filed this

action seeking for a judgment declaring that she is the permit holder of the

land referred to in the 2nd schedule to the plaint. Admittedly, the land referred

in the 2nd schedule forms part of the land referred to in the I st schedule

thereto. The plaintiff in her evidence has stated that she was given the land

referred to in the I st schedule to the plaint by issuing the permit marked PI in

her name by the Government Agent of the area. (vide pages 44,45,87 and 88 of

the appeal brief) The said document had been marked without any objection

being raised. The claim of the plaintiff had been on the basis of the said permit

marked PI issued in her name.

The fact that the permit marked PI had been issued in the name of the

plaintiff by the Government Agent was affirmed by the witness namely Ashoka

Nandanie. She is an officer from the District Secretariat Ampara who has the

authority to say so having looked at the relevant official documents. She also

has described the boundaries and the extent of the land claimed by the

plaintiff. (vide proceeding at page 37 of the appeal brief) Defendant has not

produced any document to show that he is having rights to the said land

referred to in the I st schedule to the plaint. Accordingly, it is clear that the

plaintiff is lawfully entitled to possess the land referred to in the I st schedule to

the plaint that includes the land referred to in the 2nd schedule thereto on the

basis of the permit marked PI. Exactly, it is the claim of the plaintiff that is

I I l I

(

~-I

t

~

~ i

II I i ! t ! \ ( II

~ 1[ ! I I

I! ) i , t i t ! f , ! f i ! ! !

I

3

! mentioned in the prayer to the plaint. Therefore, it is correct to have granted

the said reliefs prayed for in the plaint of the plaintiff.

The defendant in his evidence has stated that he was placed in

possession of a land in extent of 2 acres in the year 1974 by Paladawardana

Kamituwa. He then has stated that he took steps to have a permit issued in his

favour for the said land to which he was placed in possession. However, no

permit had been issued by the relevant authorities in the name of the

defendant though the possession of a land in extent of 2 acres had been given

to the defendant by paladawardana Kamituwa of the area.

Learned Counsel for the appellant also contended that the plaintiff has

failed to identify the land that she claims in this instance. The witness from the

Divisional Secretariat in evidence has described the boundaries of the land

given to the plaintiff. (vide proceedings at page 37 in the appeal brief) Learned

District Judge, acting upon the said evidence has decided that the plaintiff has

discharged her burden of proving the identity of the land and has answered the

respective issues (issues 11 and 12) affirmatively. Moreover, if the defendant

was to take up the issue of identity of the land, he should have moved Court

for a commission to have a clearer position, which he has failed to do. However,

as referred to above, the officer who gave evidence to establish the issuance of

the permit marked PI has identified the land claimed by the plaintiff having

given the boundaries to the same. In the circumstances, I do not see any error

4

on the part of the learned District Judge when he decided the case in favour of

the plaintiff.

Learned Counsel for the appellant also contended that the

authorities have not taken steps to have a permit issued in favour of the

defendant though such an action had been promised by them having placed

him in possession of the land in dispute in the year 1974. Such a contention

would confirm that there was no permit issued in the name of the defendant in

respect of the land in question. Hence, the said submission of the learned

Counsel for the appellant would also support the claim of the plaintiff

particularly when it comes to the first relief mentioned in the prayer to the

plaint. However, the said contention of the learned Counsel cannot be looked

into at this appeal stage since it involves matters concerning the facts of the

case. Moreover, it is an issue that should be determined only after hearing the

persons who are responsible in issuing permits as well.

For the aforesaid reasons, I am not inclined to interfere with the

impugned judgment of the learned District Judge. Accordingly, this appeal is

dismissed without costs.

Appeal dismissed without costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Kwk/=

t i l t 1 , f