==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

C.A.58/2012

HC Avissawella Case No. 214/2005

BEFORE

A. K. Suraweera,

Sirimedurawaththa,

Hettiyawaththa,

Meegoda.

Accused -Appellan t.

Vs.

The Attorney General,

The Attorney's General

Department,

Colombo 12.

: Sisira J. de Abrew, J. &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J.

Respondent.

COUNSEL : Amila Palliyage for the accused-appellant.

DSG Yasantha Kodagoda for the State.

1

ARGUED &

DECIDED ON: 23.07.2013

Sisira J. de Abrew, J.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases. The

accused-appellant in this case was convicted for raping a

woman named Pumima Manohari Pelapalgama and was

sentenced to a term of 10 years rigorous imprisonment, to

pay a fine of Rs. 5000/- carrying a default sentence of 2

months simple imprisonment and to pay a sum of Rs.

50000/- as compensation to the victim carrying a default

sentence of 6 months simple imprisonment. Being aggrieved

by the said conviction and the sentence he has appealed to

this court.

The facts of this case may be briefly summarized as follows.

The prosecutrix in this case according to the doctor who

examined her, was a mentally subnormal woman. On the

day of the incident around 9.30 a.m. the mother of the

prosecutrix left the house leaving the prosecutrix at home.

Little later the accused-appellant whose brother was living

in the neighbourhood of the prosecutrix came to her house

dragged her to a room, put her on a bed and raped. Udeni

2

!I

III

1II

I

Kanchana who was passing the house of the prosecutrix at

the time of the incident, on hearing the cries of the

prosecutrix came to the house of the prosecutrix. The

prosecutrix at this time told her that the accused-appellant

raped her. People in the neighbourhood called the accused-

appellant to the place and questioned about the incident.

The accused-appellant at this stage tried to commit suicide

by jumping into a nearby well. It has to be noted that when

Udeni Kanchana came to the house of the prosecutrix she

saw the accused-appellant leaving the house of the

prosecutrix carrying a cassette radio in his hand. The

doctor who examined the prosecutrix on the same day (11th

March 2002) found a recent hymenal tare on the hymen of

the prosecutrix. The doctor also noticed redness in the valva

and redness on her chest. Doctor was of the opinion that

there was recent vaginal penetration. The accused-appellant

who gave evidence under oath denied the incident. The

main ground of appeal urged by the learned counsel for the

accused-appellant was that there was no reason to reject

the evidence of the accused-appellant and that the learned

trial judge has failed to consider whether there was any

reasonable doubt created in the truth of the prosecution

case as a result of the accused's evidence. The position

taken up by the accused-appellant in his evidence was that

3

he went to the house of the prosecutrix in order to collect

the outstanding money that the prosecutrix's mother had to

pay as a result of the sale of land between the accused-

appellant and the mother of the prosecutrix. According to

him he went there to collect the outstanding amount.

Learned prosecuting State Counsel had brought to the

notice of Court that the accused-appellant has failed to

mention the said fact in his statement made to the police.

Although the accused-appellant in his examination in chief

took up the position that he went to the house of the

prosecutrix in order to collect the outstanding amount

which I have stated earlier, he changed this position in the

cross examination. The accused-appellant iri the cross

examination, said that he went to the house of the

prosecutrix in order to collect some money from the

prosecutrix. Thus his original position was contradicted by

himself in the cross examination. The accused-appellant in

his evidence stated that when he went to the house of the

prosecutrix her brother was in the compound. But this

position was not suggested to the prosecutrix when she was

giving evidence. Learned trial judge having considered the

said omission and contradictions decided to reject the

evidence of the accused-appellant. In our opinion the

conclusion reached by the learned trail judge to reject the

4

evidence of the accused-appellant is correct. When we

consider said infirmities in the accused-appellant's evidence

we are of the opinion that the accused-appellant's evidence

does not create a reasonable doubt in the truth of the

prosecution case. I am therefore, unable to agree with the

contention raised by the counsel for the accused-appellant.

According to the prosecutrix the accused-appellant at the

time of the incident, had scratched her face and the legs.

Learned counsel therefore contented that the story of the

prosecutrix is not corroborated by medical evidence. I have

to note here that the doctor has not been questioned

whether there should be abrasions or injuries when the

accused-appellant scratched the face and the legs of the

prosecutrix. As the doctor has not been questioned on this

matter it is not possible to say that the evidence of the

prosecutrix has not been corroborated by the medical

evidence on the said point. Was evidence of the prosecutrix

corroborated by medical evidence? What is corroboration?

Justice Waithyalingam in Feranando vs. Republic 1979 (ii)

NLR page 313 at 397and 398 held thus;

"in our law of evidence corroboration is the term which has

special significance. In the conventional sense as used in

our courts it means other independent evidence which

5

confirms or supports or strengthens the evidence which is

required to be corroborated".

Has the evidence of the prosecutrix been strengthened by

the medical evidence? The doctor who examined the

prosecutrix on the same day has found a recent hymeneal

tear in the vagina of the prosecutrix. Thus their evidence

strengthens the evidence of the prosecutrix with regard to

the incident of the rape. Applying the principles laid down

in the above judicial decision I hold that the evidence of the

prosecutrix has been corroborated by medical evidence. I

have gone through the evidence laid at the trial and see no

reason to interfere with the judgment of the learned trial

judge.

Learned DSG made an application to enhance the sentence

imposed by the learned trial judge. Learned counsel for the

accused-appellant submits that the learned trial judge after

exercising her judicial discretion has imposed an

appropriate sentence. The sentence imposed by the learned

trial judge is 10 years rigorous imprisonment.

When we consider the facts of this case we are of the

opinion that we should not interfere with the sentence

imposed by the learned trial judge. We affirm the conviction

and the sentence and direct the Prison Authorities to

6

implement the sentence from the date of this judgment

(today).

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

NRj-

7

~f

!

!!

!tft

l