==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA 1112/98 (F) D.C. Anuradhapura Case No. 14711/L

K. Wimalawathi Madawachchiya.

Appellant Vs. A. Herath Banda Madawachchiya.

Respondent

CA 1112/98 (F) D.C. Anuradhapura Case No. 14711/L

Before K. T. CHITRASIRI, J.

Parties are absent and unrepresented.

Decided on 20.01.2014.

K. T. CHITRASIRI, J.

Parties are absent and unrepresented even though notices

have been sent under registered cover to both the parties and to

their Registered Attorneys directing them to be present in this

Court today. The said letter had been posted on the 09.12.2013.

Despite sending those notices under registered cover both parties

have failed to come before this Court. Therefore Court decides to

consider the merits of this appeal.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the Judgment dated

25.11.1998 of the learned District Judge of Anuradhapura. By

that Judgment, the Plaint filed by the Plaintiff-Appellant was

dismissed. The reliefs prayed for in the said Plaint is to have a

Judgment in favour of the Plaintiff declaring that she is the owner

of the land referred to in the schedule to the Plaint and to have the

Defendant-Respondent evicted therefrom. Learned District Judge

1

I

t,I

having considered the evidence has concluded that the Plaintiff

has failed to establish title to the land that she has claimed.

The Plaintiff in her evidence has stated that she became

entitled to the land referred to in the schedule to the Plaint by the

deed bearing No. 2166 marked PI. Learned District Judge has

considered the validity of title in that deed and has declined to

accept the title of the five vendors to that deed. He has also

considered the contents of the deed and also the manner in which

the title of the vendors, been cited in the schedule to the deed

marked Pl. The title of the vendors to the said deed PI has

emanated through the inheritance of their father. The learned

District Judge has declined to accept such a title in coming to the

said conclusion.

Learned District Judge has also considered the evidence as

to the possession of the land in question. The Plaintiff herself has

admitted that the Defendant had been in possession of this land

for a long period of time. The Plaintiff has also stated that she has

never been in possession of this land at least upon the execution of

the deed PI. (Vide proceeding at pages 68 and 69 in the appeal

brief).

In the circumstances, I am of the VIew that the learned

District Judge has correctly evaluated the evidence and decided to

2

I

f f

I

dismiss the Plaint filed by the Plaintiff-Appellant. Accordingly, I do \

not wish to interfere with the findings oJ the learned District IJudge. For the aforesaid reasons this appeal is dismissed without I

cost.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

Mmj-.

3