==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A 87111998 (F) D.C. Balapitiya No. 2017/L

G.L. Geethananda 31, Ramya Road, Colombo 4. (Deceased)

PLAINTIFF

Vs.

Swarnalatha Hemamalee Geethananda

16/9, Nagahamulla Road, Thalangama South, Battaramulla.

SUBSTITUTED PLAINTIFF

(Appointed according to the Court of Appeal order on 13th October, 2011)

Vs.

W. G. S. Nanayakkara

13, Station Road, Ambalangoda.

DEFENDANT

BETWEEN

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

G.L. GeethananDA

16/9, Nagahamulla Road, Thalangama South, Battaramulla.

(Deceased)

Swarnalatha Hemamalee Geethananda

16/9, Nagahamulla Road, Thalangama South, Battaramulla.

SUBSTITUTED-PLAINTIFF -APPELLANT

2

(Appointed according to the Court of Appeal order on 13th October, 2011)

Anil Gooneratne J.

Vs.

W. G. S. Nanayakkara

13, Station Road, Ambalangoda.

DEFENDANT -RESPONDENT

Gamini Marapana P.C. with Keerthi Gunawardane and Navin Marapana for the Substituted-Plaintiff-Appellant

G.D. Kulatilleke for the Defendant-Respondent instructed by S. Jayaweera

3

ARGUED ON: 13.02.2012

DECIDED ON: 17.05.2012

GOONERA TNE J.

This was a rei vindicatio action filed in the District Court of

Balapitiya. Plaintiff-Appellant got only partial relief from the learned

District Judge of Balapitiya i.e a declaration of title to the premises in

dispute (prayer 'er' to the plaint). Trial Judge had however not granted

eviction and damages against the Defendant-Respondent as prayed for in

prayer 'er>' & 'erz;' of the plaint. I do not wish to discuss the affinity between

an action rei-vindicatio and declaration of title in this judgment, but I

observe that one should not loose sight of the fact that this is an action for a

declaration of title, and need to consider the very basic principles applicable

therein since the cause of action is more particularly based on eviction of the

Defendant-Respondent. (paragraph 4 & 5 of plaint). The question of tenancy

had been tested at the trial by way of evidence which led the Trial Court

Judge to deny eviction and damages for the Plaintiff-Appellant. In all these

4

circumstances I believe that the main question that has to be decided would

be the legality of tenancy and or the continued possession of the premises in

dispute by the Defendant, was legal or not? If the continued possession of

the premises in dispute by the Defendant-Respondent was illegal, then the

Respondent would be a trespasser?

Parties proceeded to trial on 6 issues. Defendant-Respondent

issue Nos. 3 - 5 suggest tenancy of Defendant under Plaintiffs father and

the deposit of rents after the demise of Plaintiff s father in the Ambalangoda

Local Authority (issue 4). As such Defendant seeks to establish continued

tenancy (issue N05). It is very apparent that the media in which the

Defendant-Respondent thought it fit to approach this case at the very outset

was to deny title, but having realised the weakness of that position decided

to accept title of Plaintiff, and to urge tenancy for Defendant's benefit (vide

proceedings of 17.8.1995) objecting to issue No.5 resulted in the case being

taken to the Court of Appeal at a very initial stage as regards the burden of

proof. The order of this court dated 24.11.1995 was very relevant and correct

The said order deals with the correct and undisputed legal

position. Hence evidence was led and commenced on behalf of the

Defendant at the trial which was more or less conceded by the Respondent

5

and order of the District Judge of 17.8.1995 was vacated directing the

Defendant-Respondent to begin the trial.

I would initially refer to the position taken up by the learned

Counsel for the Respondent as regards the question of attornment at the

hearing before this court. It was his submission that such a position, re-

attornment, cannot be considered by the Appellate Court since it was not

raised as an issue in the Original Court, and that it is raised for the first time

in appeal and as such invited this court to reject such a legal concept. It was

also the position of the learned counsel for the Respondent that if the

question of attornment was raised in the District Court Defendant-

Respondent could have led more evidence and the learned District Judge

could have given his mind to this aspect of the case. In view of this

objection, it would be necessary at the outset to examine the evidence led at

the trial and submissions both oral and written of the Plaintiff-appellant.

Appellant's father had by deed of gift P2 gifted the premises in

dispute to the Appellant on or about 1979. Father expired on 12.10.1980.

(P3). Thereupon the Appellant by letter of 7.6.1981 (P4 Pg. 64 -

proceedings of 31.3.1997) informed the Respondent about the appellant's

father's death and requested the Respondent to attorne to him and accept

6

him as land lord as from 1980. On examining this letter I find that the

contents ofP4 refer to:

(a) Death of Appellant's father

(b) Property gifted to him by father and he is the owner.

(c) To accept Applicant as landlord as from November 1980.

(d) To pay rent to Appellant and obtain a receipt.

(e) Pay arrears of rent and if rent had been deposited since 1977 in the local authority

to give the relevant period and to pay such arrears of rent.

(±) Copy ofletter sent to private address of addressee.

There had been no objection to producing and marking letter P4.

Registered postal article to prove dispatch of P4 had been produced P4a (not

objected). Learned President's Counsel submitted to this court that letter P4

was not denied or objected and that there was no reply or response by the

Respondent to P4. It was the position of the Appellant that since there was

no reply or response to P4, Appellant sent another letter dated 01.10.1981

(P7) inviting the attention of the Respondent to P4 and reiterated his position

and requested for arrears of rent. P7 also refer to mistakenly inserting as

N.S.G (initials of Appellant) when it ought to be W.S.G. There had been no

objection to P7 and Appellant also state that the relevant postal article was

produced marked P7 A. It is the position of the Appellant that the

Respondent continued to occupy the premises in question without attorning

to the Appellant and paying the arrears of rent. Appellant emphasis that the

7

Respondent willfully ignored and completely ignored the requests made in

P4 & P7 and acted in breach of the contract of tenancy. If so, is the

Defendant a trespasser?

ATTORNMENT - Stroud's Judicial Dictionary of Words and Phrases - Sixth Ed. Vol.

1 pg. 217 ... '''Attornment' signifies the tenant's acknowledgment of a new 10rd"(Cowel).

"Attornment' is an agreement of the tenant to the grant of the seigniorie, or of a rent, or

of the donee in tayle, or tenant for life or yeeres, to a grant of a reversion or remainder

made to another" (Co. LITT. 309, A: TOUCH. 253; see hereon VOODFALL; Termes de

la Ley).

At this stage I wish to mention and stress that tenancy is

a contract. The question is whether the Respondent tenant has repudiated the

fundamental obligation of tenancy. In these circumstances can court impose

on parties a contractual relationship which the Tenant-Respondent reject or

refuse to accept or attorn with the Appellant. If the tenant reject and refuse to

accept the landlord (Appellant) then the Appellant could elect to treat the

Defendant-Respondent as a trespasser.

On the other hand can the tenant merely ignore the rights of the

new owner who got title on a deed of gift and continue to deposit rent in a

local authority under the name of the former landlord? Tenancy need to be

proved, and agreement to continue tenancy must also be proved. Parties need

to be or were ad idem as to terms, unless there is waiver that could be

inferred. Mere acceptance of rent cannot create a new tenancy or agreement.

8

At this point I would prefer to deal with the evidence led at the

trial and consider the authorities cited by counsel to decide on it's

applicability.

Witness Kamalasiri from the local authority (called by Defendant) in

his evidence on 22.8.1996 state briefly as follows (The gist narrated as

follows):

(a) owner G.L. Podisingho De Silva (Appellant's father) as in document V3.

(b) Payment made to above person named in the document V3 after 1978. If there

was a change the ledger would indicate.

(c) VI - claim form refer to Podisingho Silva. Rent paid to G.L. Podisingho. But the

basis of payment cannot be ascertained from the documents.

(d) During 1978 to 1984 payments made by W.G.S.Nanayakkara (Defendant).

(e) Documents does not indicate in whose name money had been deposited.

(f) Ledger state the name of tenant but not landlord. It is a lapse on the part of the

local authority.

(g) By V2 Plaintiff withdrew a sum of Rs. 1960/20 in August 1984 from the local

authority.

(h) By V2 (ff» Plaintiff authorised G.L.P. De Silva to collect the cheque on his behalf

from the local authority.

(i) V3 & V4 wich the Appellant remarks as fabricated documents. Not certified in

terms of Section 76 of the Evidence Ordinance - V 4 Defendant deposit rent in

Plaintiffs favour.

V3 is a deposit in Plaintiffs father's favour.

When I look at the entire evidence of the witness called by the

Defendant, a Clerk from the Local Authority, it is doubtful whether any

9

reliance could be placed on that evidence which at a certain point tend to

favour the Defendant -Respondent. There seems to be no consistency in

evidence of the witness. Even the trial Judge refer to the lapses of the local

authority witness but prefer not to damage the case of Defendant-Appellant

or hold against him for the lapses of the witness. In law should the court take

this attitude? Other important question is as to why the Defendant-

Respondent the so called tenant preferred not to give evidence? A court

could if necessary draw inferences on Defendant-Tenants failure to give

evidence? Is it deliberate avoidance?

The position of the Defendant-Respondent seems to be to blow

hot and cold and adjust the case as and when the Defendant-Respondent

chooses to do so. If one looks at the answer Defendant denied Plaintiff title.

(By denying paragraphs 2/3 of plaint). If it is so the Defendant-Respondent

is not a tenant but a trespasser. However parties proceeded to trial on issues

and when issues are raised pleadings recede to the background. Then with

the issues a gradual shift took place. Issue Nos. 4 & 5 suggest that with the

death of Plaintiffs father rent deposited with the Local authority and the

Defendant became the tenant of Plaintiff. The Court of Appeal order of

24.11.1995 is also relevant in the circumstances of the case. (need not be

repeated). Only when a challenge to Defendant-Respondents denial to title

10

took place by Plaintiff-Appellant that adjustments were made to enable the

party Defendant to continue with the case. defendant never directly admitted

Plaintiff-Respondent title. Respondent indirectly or reluctantly accepted

plaintiff as the landlord at a subsequent stage to meet the challenge and of

the risk of rejection of her rights.

Defendant-Respondent always took cover under the local

authority. (even if the law provides) and resorted to indirect methods to

prove tenancy. Section 21(3) of the Rent Act contemplates the authorized

person to give a written acknowledgement of every payment of rent and

transmit the amount in such payment to the ladlord of the premises.

However from November 1980 up to the time this case was filed or heard no

payments were sent by the authority to the Plaintiff. Document PI of

6.1.1992 confirm this position when this authority required the Plaintiff to

prove title and obtain the rents deposited. Witness of the Defendant was

unable to correctly explain as to why Plaintiff s name did not appear in the

ledger maintained by the local authority. Nor could the witness explain as to

why rents deposited could not be sent to Plaintiff. (in compliance with

Section 21 (3). There is no doubt that if Plaintiff was accepted as landlord by

the Defendant the Plaintiff s name and address were disclosed to the

authority, rents deposited could have been sent to Plaintiff. This clearly

11

indicates the reluctance of Defendant-Respondent to accept Plaintiff-

Appellant as landlord, but merely tried to take advantage of the letters P4 &

P7 (paragraphs 11 & 12 of the Written Submission of Respondent) and to

demonstrate tenancy between parties. One has to really understand the

meaning and purpose of dispatch of letters P4 & P7 and it's contents. It is

nothing but a request to attorn and nothing else. P4 & P7 was never replied

by Defendant. As such no contract of tenancy could be at least presumed,

between parties.

It would not be possible to reject the concept of attornent in law

having not objected to documents P4 & P7. The said documents are

admissible and is evidence for all purposes of the case and law. (vide

Jugolinija V s. Boal East 1981 (1) SLR 18 at 24) Therefore this court will not

be in a position to entertain the submissions of learned counsel for

Respondent that Appellant cannot be permitted to take it up in appeal. This

court is concerned more particularly to decide the question of legality of

possession of Defendant-Respondent in the premises in dispute. Defendant-

Respondent failure to attorn in the Plaintiff-Appellant amounts to illegal

possession and as such the Respondent is a trespasser. Therefore I am unable

to agree with the learned District Judge's reasoning and judgment. Nor can I

accept the submission of learned Counsel for Respondent that the case of

12

Gunasekera Vs. Jinadasa 1996(2) SLR 116 has no relevance or differ from

the case in hand. A request to obtain rents deposited in the local authority or

to authorize persons to collect the rent deposit on behalf of Plaintiff does not

create a new tenancy, Mere acceptance would not be advantages to the

tenant. In a contract of tenancy the contract and tenancy must be properly

and correctly proved. The deposit of rent does not discharge tenants

obligation to landlord.

In Kurukulasuriya Vs. RanMenika 1990(1) SLR 331 .....

Her Ladyship Bandaranayake J. referring to the contract of tenancy said ...

"This being so the ratio decidendi in the case of Vincent Vs. Sumanasena (supra) would

apply. The acceptance of rent in the present circumstances does not amount to a waiver of

the notice. Once the contractual tenancy is ended by notice, the landlord loses no rights in

accepting rent from the statutory tenant. The mere acceptance of rent is insufficient to

create a new tenancy. The agreement to continue the tenancy must be proved. It must be

shown that the parties were ad idem as to the terms. A waiver of a notice to quit cannot

be presumed. Fernando vs. Samaraweera (8); Attorney General vs. Ediriwickremasuriya

(9); Virasinghe vs. Peiris (10); Dias vs. Gomes (11); Perera vs. Magie (12). Acceptance

of rent for a period subsequent to the notice revives the tenancy only if from the facts

established an intention to waive can reasonably be inferred. Every such payment does

not ipso facto amount to a revival. Eastern Hardware Stores vs. Fernando (5)"

In my concluding remarks I refer to the above mentioned case

of Gunasekera V s. Jinadasa which is relevant to the case in hand in every

respect which has considered a variety of matters, all of which could be

13

connected to the case in hand. The purpose and meaning of P7 & P4 does

establish tenancy or a contract between the parties unless attorn with the

Plaintiff. Appellant; for which there was no response. Resulting position is

to reject any further tenancy between parties and make Defendant-

Respondents possession illegal.

In Gunasekera vs. Jinadasa ....

The premises were let in 1960 by the Plaintiff Respondent Appellants' father to

the father of the Defendant Appellant Respondent. Later in 1970, the Plaintiff's

father gifted the premises to him, but they neither informed the Defendant's father

nor called him to attorn, the latter died in 1973, the Defendant then attorned to the

Plaintiff's father, the Defendant continued to pay rent to the Plaintiff's father;

when the Plaintiff's father refused to accept rent from 1980, the Defendant

deposited the rent with the authorized person, to the credit of the Plaintiff's father.

The father and son by their letter of 23.10.81, informed the Defendant of the

Transfer and called upon him to pay rent to the Plaintiff with effect from

16.11.81. The Defendant did not reply but continued to occupy the premises, he

deposited the rent in the father's name and continued to do so even after his

answer was filed.

The Plaintiff instituted vindicatory action, the Trial Judge held that both the

Plaintiff and his father had called upon the Defendant to attorn, to the plaintiff and

that the Defendant having failed to attorn to the Plaintiff was a trespasser, and

gave judgment for the Plaintiff.

On appeal the Court of Appeal reversed the judgment, holding that the Defendant

had become aware of the Plaintiff's title in 1973, and that the father continued to

collect rent as the Plaintiffs agent, and that the Defendant had not deliberately

Held:

14

refused to accept him as landlord and had not refused to pay him rent; and that

therefore the Defendant had not been transformed from a tenant into a trespasser;

on appeal.

Per Fernando 1.

"I do not agree that simply because the Rent Act now gives tenants more extensive

privileges, the common law should now be interpreted differently, either to assist the

transferee or the occupier, the question before us must be approached without any

predisposition towards an interpretation which would favour either Plaintiffs or owners,

on the one had or Defendants or tenants on the other.

(j) While it is legitimate initially to infer attornment from continued occupation, thus

establishing privity of contract between the parties, another principle of law of

contract comes into play in such circumstances to which the presumption of

attornment must sometimes yield. When the occupier persists in conduct which is

fundamentally inconsistent with a contract of tenancy, and amounts to a

repudiation of that presumed contract the transferee has the option either to treat

the tenancy as subsisting and to sue for arrears of rent and ejectment or to accept

the occupiers repudiation of the tenancy and to proceed against him as a

trespasser.

Per Fernando 1.

"The court must not apply the presumption of attornment as a trap for the

transferee, allowing the occupier who fails to fulfil the obligation of a tenant, if

used on the tenancy, to disclaim tenancy and assert that he can only be sued for

ejectment and damages in a vindicatory action, but if faced with an action based

on title to claim that notwithstanding his conduct he is an tenant and can only be

sued in a tenancy action, since it is the occupiers conduct which gives rise to such

15

uncertainty, equitable considerations confinn the option which the law of contract

gives to the transferee.

(ii) Payment to the authoirsed person in the name of the person who is not the

landlord does not discharge the tenants obligation to the landlord.

In all the circumstances of this case and considering all the

evidence placed at the trial in its entirety, this court is of the view that

possession of the Defendant-Respondent has become illegal from the point

of issuance of letters P4 & P7, for which tenant never replied or responded.

In fact when the Defendant-Respondent was challenged of the failure to

accept Plaintiff s title, and the attempt to raise tenancy as an issue resulted in

a change of position and the stance of the Defendant-Respondent. Then the

court is left with the position of Defendant paying rent to Plaintiff after

1981? A very vague and doubtful evidence were placed before court to

arrive at a conclusion as regards payment of rents to Plaintiff. The

Defendant's failure to give evidence and place direct evidence of the so

called relationship of tenancy and thereby prove a contract of tenancy is a

matter that cannot be ignored or taken lightly. This court is entitled to draw

inferences on same, since Plaintiff request to attorn and pay rent directly to

Plaintiff, are matters left in the dark and unexplained. The only available

witness of Defendant has not performed well at all, to establish Defendants

issues. No proper material had been placed by the local authority to establish

16

that rents deposited had been released to the Plaintiff. As observed above

document PI demonstrate the local authorities position in this regard. There

is a breach of the law on the part of the local Authority to comply with

Section 21 (3) of the Rent Act.

Section 21 (3) reads thus:

Where the rent of any premises is paid to the authorized person, the authorized

person shall issue to the tenant of the premises a receipt in acknowledgment of

such payment, and shall transmit the amount of such payment to the landlord of

the premises. It shall be the duty of such landlord to issue to the authorized person

a receipt in acknowledgment of the amount so transmitted to him.

Even if the Plaintiff withdraw the deposits which are more or

less deposits made during the life time of Plaintiff's father, it cannot be

considered as rent paid to Plaintiff. On the death of a person, the deceased

persons property both movable and immovable vest immediately on the

heirs. Once vested it cannot be divested unless by well known modes

recognized by law. i.e last will. 10 N.L.R at 98. Document P8 also does not

favour the Defendant since licnece had not been issued after 1979. Therefore

I am not inclined to accept the views of the learned District Judge. This court

17

set aside the judgment of the learned District Judge and enter judgment for

Plaintiff-appellant as in sub paragraphs (i) & (ii) of the Petition of Appeal

with costs.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

i I I I,

i

I If