==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA 1034/98 D.C. Kegalle Case No. 3340

01. Garnini Jayalath Wijewardena No. 104, Badalladeniya, Ambanpitiya, Galigamuwa Town. 02. Morayalage Namdawathie Wijewardena of do (Dead) 02A. Sooriya Kumara Wijewardena of do 02B. Chandra Kumara Wijewardena of do (Minor) 2A and 2B Plaintiffs are substituted in the room of the 2nd Plaintiff dead. 1st Plaintiff appointed as Guardianad-litem over 2B minor Plaintiff)

Plaintiff Vs.

Viyannalage Saranelis Dambullewatta, Ambanpitiya, Galigamuwa Town.

Defendant Viyannalage Saranelis Dambullewatta, Ambanpitiya, Galigamuwa Town.

Defendant/Appellant

Vs. 01. Gamini Jayalath Wijewardena No. 104, Badulladeniya, Ambanpitiya, Galigamuwa Town. 02. Morayalage Nandawathie Wijewardena of do (Dead) 02A. Sooriya Kumara Wijewardena of do 02B. Chandra Kumara Wijewardena of do

(Minor) 2A and 2B Plaintiffs are substituted in the room of the 2nd Plaintiff dead. 1st Plaintiff appointed as Guardianad-litem over 2B minor Plaintiff)

Plaintiff/Respondent

C.A 1034/98 (F) D.C.Kegalle Case No: 3340/L

Before K.T.Chitrasiri, J.

Counsel Udaya Bandara for the Defendant-Appellant.

Argued &

Decided on

Nagitha Wijesekara for the Plaintiff -Respondents.

07.03.2013.

K.T.Chitrasiri, J.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the judgment dated

17.09.1998 of the learned District Judge of Kegalle. In that

judgment, learned District Judge decided the case in favour of the

Plaintiff. Accordingly, the Plaintiff -Respondents (hereinafter

referred to as the Plaintiffs) became entitled to have the benefit of

the reliefs prayed for in the prayer to the amended plaint dated

09 .11. 1987 except for the relief prayed for in paragraph (ql)

therein.

Learned Counsel for the Appellant in support of his case made

submissions for more than one hour. Learned Counsel for the

- 2-

Respondent also took nearly Y2 an hour to conclude his

submissions.

Basically, it is the contention of the leamed Counsel for the

Appellant that the learned District Judge did not properly consider

the evidence of the surveyor who drew the Plan bearing No:574

marked 'P1 '. Learned Counsel further submitted that the evidence

of the Plaintiff as to the usage of the road way claimed by the

Plaintiffs had not been corroborated by an independent evidence.

In the petition of appeal, it is contended that the learned District

Judge has given undue weightage to the evidence of the Plaintiff

and had failed to comment on the contradictory nature of the

Plaintiffs evidence.

The learned District Judge in his judgment dated 17.09.1998 had

decided that the Plaintiffs are entitled to have a road way as

claimed by them on the basis of prescription. Accordingly, he has

answered the first six issues in accordance with his said decision.

Therefore, it is clear that the findings of the learned District Judge

is on the basis of prescription claimed by the Plaintiffs to the strip

of land alleged to have been used by them as a road way.

- 3-

The 1st Plaintiff in his evidence has stated that he, along with his

wife who is the 2nd Plaintiff, having constructed a house within

their land commenced using the disputed road way since the year

1971. ( Vide evidence in pages 84 and 85). Since then they have

been using this strip of land as a right of way. The way m

which they used this land as a right of way is clearly explained m

his evidence found at pages 84 and 85 of the brief.

The manner in which the Defendant obstructed their right of way

also has been described by the Plaintiff in his evidence. Having said

so, he went on to say that he made a complaint to the police in the

month of March 1983, of the obstruction. Even though he has

referred to the month as the month of May in cross- examination,

he has clearly said that it was in the month of March 1983.

Thereafter, the police seems to have settled the dispute and the

Plaintiffs were allowed to use the road way. After sometime, the

Defendant again had obstructed the right of way of the Plaintiff

completely on the 23.05.1984. Immediately, thereafter too, he has

made a complaint to the Grama Sevaka of the obstruction. Grama

Sevaka has confirmed this position in his evidence.

----1

- 4-

At this stage, it must be noted that the learned Counsel for the

Appellant failed to show any question put to the Plaintiff in cross

examination suggesting that there had been no right of way, used by

the Plaintiff. Moreover the Defendant even in examination- in- chief

had not denied that the Plaintiffs were using it as a road way.

Therefore, it is implied that the Defendant-Appellant had accepted

the position that the Plaintiffs, in fact had been using this road

way. In the light of the above, circumstances and the analysis of

the evidence referred to above it shows that there had been a road

way used by the Plaintiffs as claimed by them and it was

obstructed by the Defendant.

Learned Counsel for the Defendant referred to the evidence of

Surveyor Perera at length. He highlighted the fact that the area

claimed as the road way is only 8 inches in width as shown in the

plan marked Pl. However, the surveyor in his evidence has

explained this position and has said that it had only 8 inches in

width, particularly at the time of the survey. He has clearly said in

answer to Court that there had been a gate at the northern point of

the road way. He also had explained the manner in which the pole

was found at the gate and how it had been used as a gate. (Vide

evidence at pages 71 and 7 4 of the brief). In the circumstances, I

am unable to agree with the contention of the learned Counsel for

- 5-

the Appellant as to the evidentiary value of the existence of road

way referred to in the plan marked Pl.

Witness Siril Perera Gunawardena who had been the Grama Seva

Niladhari of the area in the year 1984, had clearly said that there

had been a road way as claimed by the plaintiffs and it was used

by them for a period of about 20 years ( Vide page at 124 of the

brief). This evidence had not been contraverted at all. The witness

Punchi Banda who seems to have no connection to the either

party also has given evidence in support of the Plaintiffs'

contention. His evidence too has not been contraverted.

Having considered the evidence, it is clear that the Plaintiffs have

established that there had been a road way, used by them since the

year 1971 over the land claimed by the Defendant and it was

obstructed by him. Accordingly, I do not see any error on the part

of the learned District Judge when he came to his conclusions.

At this stage, it must be noted that the grounds of appeal urged by

the learned Counsel for the Defendant-Appellant as well as in his

petition of appeal are restricted to the facts of this case. No

questions involving law has been raised in this appeal. Generally,

the Appellate Courts are slow to interfere with the findings of a

- 6-

trial Judge as to the facts of the case. This position in law is clearly

stated in Alwis V s. Piyasena Fernando ( 1993) 1 SLR at page 119

where His Lordship G.P.S de Silva, C.J. held thus:

"It is well established that findings of primary facts by a trial judge who hears and sees the witnesses are not to be lightly

disturbed on appeal. "

As mentioned before, the appeal in this case was argued challenging

the manner in which the trial Judge looked at the evidence as to the

facts of the case. I am of the opinion that the trial Judge, having

observed the demeanour of the witnesses, is the best person to

decide as to the facts of the case.

Considering this position in law and for the reasons set out

hereinbefore, I am not inclined to interfere with the findings of the

learned District Judge.

Accordingly, this appeal is dismissed with costs fixed at

Rs.SO,OOO I- payable to the Plaintiff -Respondents.

Appeal dismissed with costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Vkg/-