==== BLOCKS ==== 

In the Court of Appeal of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

C.A. No: 1132/96 F

D.C. Walasmulla Case No: 219/L

1. Denagamage Samel of Thalagaharuppe, Mullewatte,

Walasmulla. 2. Rubasinghe Kattadige Disina of Thalagaharuppe, Mullewatte,

Walasmulla.

Plaintiffs

Vs.

1. Mahadurage Yasilin, Ruppe, Godallawatte,

Mullewatte, Walasmulla. 2. Rubasinghe Kattadige Siyadoris, Ruppe, Godallawatte,

Mullewatte, Walasmulla.

Respondents

And

1. Mahadurage Yasilin, Ruppe, Godallawatte,

Mullewatte, Walasmulla. 2. Rubasinghe Kattadige Siyadoris, Ruppe, Godallawatte,

Mullewatte, Walasmulla.

Defendant-Appellants

Vs.

Before

Counsel

Decided on

1. Denagamage Samel of Thalagaharuppe, Mullewatte,

Walasmulla.

2. Rubasinghe Kattadige Disina, of Thalagaharuppe, Mullewatte,

Walasmulla.

Plaintiff-Respondents

A. W.A. Salam, J.

Parties absent and unrepresented.

28.07.2011

A.W. Abdus Salam, J.

~is appeal arises from the judgment of the learned

1 district judge who held interalia that the plaintiffs are

the owners of the su bject matter as opposed to the claim made

by the defendants to the same both on title pleaded and by

prescription.

The facts which led to the appeal briefly are that the plaintiffs

filed action against the defendants seeking a declaration of

title to the land called THALAGAHARUPPA in extent of about 1

acre. The original owner of the said land, according to the

plaintiff was one Kattadiye Kaluwa and his title to the said

land has devolved on the plaintiffs. The subject matter has

2

been depicted as lot No 2 in plan No 443 dated 31.12.1990

made by Ruban Meegama, Licensed Surveyor. The plaintiffs

claimed ownership to the subject matter on a clear chain of

title which was not seriously contested by the defendants. The

defendants on the contra,ry produced certain deeds and

maintained that the land mentioned in their deeds includes lot

2 depicted in the aforesaid plan. Besides, the defendants

relied on prescriptive title to lot 2.

The learned district judge having analyzed the evidence

adduced by both parties on the disputed issues arrived at the

conclusion that the plaintiffs have established, on a balance of

probability, that they are the owners of the subject matter of

the ·action and rejected the claim of the defendants based on

the claim that it forms part of the land belonging to the

defendants and/or that the defendants have prescribed to the

same. To come to these conclusions the learned district judge

·has relied on the evidence of the witnesses for the plaintiffs

whose credibility he accepted without any doubt. As regards

the prescriptive claim of the defendants the learned district

judge rejected the evidence of the retired Grama Niladhari as

he had served in the area in which the subject matter is

situated only for a period of two years prior to the dispute.

3

•

The reasoning adopted by the learned district judge for his

conclusion is not at all blame worthy. These conclusions on

the disputed matters are based on the credibility of the

witnesses and other factual matters. In the circumstances, I

see no reason to interfere with the judgment of the learned

district judge. Hence, this appeal is dismissed subject to costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

4