==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an Appeal made under Section 331(1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act No. 15 of 1979 read with Article 138 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

Hon. Attorney General, Attorney General’s Department, Colombo 12. COMPLAINANT CA/HCC/0074/2024

High Court Mannar

Case No.HC/MN/01/2023 Vs.

Balanthar Hanifa Rafaidheen alias Naleen Periyakarisal, Pesalai, Mannar. AND NOW BETWEEN Balanthar Hanifa Rafaidheen alias Naleen Periyakarisal, Pesalai, Mannar. ACCUSED-APPELLANT Vs.

Hon. Attorney General, Attorney General’s Department, Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDENT

Page 2 of 7

Before: Amal Ranaraja J.

& Dr. Sumudu Premachandra J.

Counsel: Ershan Ariaratnam for the Accused-Appellant.

Malik Azeez, SC for the Respondent.

Accused-Appellant is produced via zoom platform by

the Prison Authorities.

Written Submissions: By the Accused-Appellant filed on 21/10/2024.

By the Respondent filed on 07/01/2025. Argument On : 23/06/2026. Judgement On : 07/08/2026.

Dr. Sumudu Premachandra J.

1] The accused Appellant was charged with;

• Count 01:- That on or about the 18/03/2021 in Periyakarisal, within the

Jurisdiction of this Court, the Accused was in possession of a dangerous

drug, that is Diacetylmorphine also known as Heroin as set out in Section

54 A (d) of Poisons, Opium and Dangerous Drugs Ordinance as amended

by Act No. 13 of 1984 and as set out in Column II of Part III of the Third

Page 3 of 7

Schedule of the said Ordinance, weighing 1.288 grams being an amount

which is in excess of the amount mentioned in the said Colum II, thereby

acting in contravention of the Provisions of Chapter V of the said

Ordinance, without due permission, in a manner not provided for therein

and without the license issued by the Director, you have committed an

offence against the said Ordinance, and is liable to be punished as

provided for in the corresponding entry in Column II of the said Part III in

the Third Schedule of the said Ordinance.

• Count 02:- That on the same day, at the same place and during the same

transaction, by trafficking of a dangerous drug, that is Diacetylmorphine

also known as Heroin as set out in Section 54 A (b) of Poisons, Opium and

Dangerous Drugs Ordinance as amended by Act No. 13 of 1984 and as

set out in Column II of Part III of the Third Schedule of the said Ordinance,

weighing 1.288 grams being an amount which is in excess of the amount

mentioned in the said Column II, thereby acting in Contravention of the

provisions of Chapter V of the said Ordinance, without due permission, in

a manner not provided for therein and without the license issued by the

Director, you have committed an offence against the said Ordinance, and

is liable to be punished as provided for in the corresponding entry to

Column II of the said Part III in the Third Schedule of the said Ordinance.

2] After the pretrial conference was held, indictment was read over and the

Accused was pleaded not guilty to the above charges. The Prosecution relied

primarily on the testimony of P.W. 01, Chief Inspector Somasiri and P.W. 02,

Sub Inspector Vevekanantharaja who claimed that police officers acted on

information from a private informant, conducted an ambush outside the

Accused's residence, arrested him upon his arrival on a motorcycle, recovered

heroin concealed in the knot of his sarong, and subsequently weighed and

forwarded the substance for Government Analyst examination. To prove

charges, the Prosecution marked P1 to P8(b) and “X-1” the Government Analyst’s

report.

Page 4 of 7

3] The Accused made a Dock statement. The Defense contended that the

Accused was innocent and had been falsely implicated through a fabricated

police narrative. On evidence the learned trial judge convicted him for both

counts sentenced 7 years’ rigorous imprisonments and imposed Rs 100,000/-

fine, in default 6 months’ simple imprisonments, to be run concurrently.

4] Being aggrieved to the said judgement and sentence, the Appellant prefers

this Appeal on the following grounds;

• The learned trial judge in the circumstance surrounding this case in

taking into account the serious infirmity omissions, and contradictions of

the prosecution witness on material matters should have more than out

of an abundance of caution looked for independent corroboration of the

evidence of the witnesses before finding the Accused-Appellants guilty.

• This principle of law had not been correctly applied by the learned trial

judge, the evidence of the witnesses should have without any hesitation

been rejected too.

• The failure on the part of the learned trial judge to address his mind to

the aforementioned matters of fact and law resulted in himself non-section

and misdirection thereby causing irreparable prejudice to the Accused-

Appellants.

• The charges have not been proved beyond reasonable doubt.

• The learned trial judge erred in failing to consider the provisions of

Poisons, Opium and Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act No. 13 of 1984

and No. 41 of 2022.

5] Since, the grounds are interwoven, I do not consider them separately. The

learned counsel for the Appellant pointed out numerous material contradictions

between the evidence of P.W. 01 and P.W. 02 concerning the timing of the raid,

the location of the police officers, the circumstances of the arrest, the

Page 5 of 7

information received from the informant, and the description of the electronic

weighing scale.

6] With regard to time P.W. 01 says it was 6.45 (18.54 hrs) pm. (page 26 of the

translated brief) while P.W. 02 says they arrived between 6.15 to 6.45pm. It is

seen that the 7 officers participated for the raid. In the judgement, the learned

trial judge concluded with regard to the discrepancy of the time “the observation

of this court is, on an occasion where several officers set out to go for a raid and

arrive at the specific spot, it is not practical for all the officers to check the time of

such arrival and make note of it”. This court notes this is totally an acceptable

conclusion and this cannot be taken as a material contradiction.

7] In relation to the contradiction that digits appearing in which colour, P.W. 01

said it was Bluish Green. The P. W. 02 said it was in Black, but he gives evidence

on memory. It is a standard acceptance error of memory cannot be taken as

deliberate falsehood.

8] In the case of The Queen V. V.P.Julis 65 NLR 505, His Lordship Basnayake

CJ discussed the applicability of the maxim 'falsus in uno, falsus in omnibus '. It

was also followed in case of Samaraweera V. AG [1990]1 Sri L.R. 256. Court

held in 'Julis ' that, in applying the maxim, it must be remembered that, all

falsehood is not deliberate. Errors of memory, faulty observation or lack of skill

in observation upon any point or points, exaggeration, or mere embroidery or

embellishment, must be distinguished from deliberate falsehood. Nor does it

apply to cases of conflict of testimony on the same point between different

witnesses. Thus, said contradiction cannot be taken as material contradiction,

which fell into falsehood.

9] With regard to the proximity, the inconsistencies regarding the location of the

scene, including P.W. 01's inaccurate description of the surrounding geography,

however, on evidence, there is no contradiction, P.W. 02 says that the Accused’s

house was placed in a residential area close to the sea, P.W. 01 says the house

was towards the sea distance away from sea along with 5 houses. Thus, the

learned trial judge has correctly analyzed the evidence.

Page 6 of 7

10] The Defense also challenged the integrity of the Prosecution's evidence by

arguing that the chain of custody was incomplete. It pointed to the absence of

the Accused's signature or thumb impression on the sealed production, the

failure to call the police officer responsible for handling the productions, and

contradictions between the Police Information Report and the oral testimony

regarding the handling of the exhibits. These deficiencies, it argued, prevented

the Prosecution from establishing an uninterrupted "inward journey" of the

narcotics before laboratory analysis.

11] However, these objections were not taken when the preliminary evidence was

led to get the Government analyst report. In our criminal law, the "inward

journey" refers to the unbroken chain of custody of a production (such as illicit

drugs or seized items) from the place of recovery to the Government Analyst.

Proving that seals were kept intact throughout this transit is vital to establish

that the evidence was not swapped or contaminated. The only place for

verification where the signature and thumb impression were placed by the

Accused at the stage of preliminary evidence. If the Accused fails to elicit such

contradiction in relation to such contradiction, later, he cannot contradict the

position. Once he admits or kept silence, proper sealing of the production is

admitted.

12] It is seen that the learned trial judge evaluated the dock statement against

the Prosecution witnesses. The Accused came to the vicinity after having called

by his wife. The learned trial judge rightly held that this was a mere unsworn

statement and it did not create any suspicion on the Prosecution evidence. To

prove this factor, the Accused did not call his wife to prove this stance. Hence,

compelling evidence of guilt is led by the Prosecution; the fair explanation must

be given.

13] In the above circumstances, this court of the view that the conviction is safe,

the Prosecution proved the offences beyond reasonable doubt.

Page 7 of 7

14] Thus, the appeal is dismissed with no costs and impugned judgement and

the sentence are affirmed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

AMAL RANARAJA J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL