==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRA TICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

C.A. APPLICATION NO.(WRIT) 644/2011

In the matter of an application for mandate in the

nature of Writ of Certiorari made in terms of

Article 140 of the Constitution of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

Nuwarapakshage Sumith Nilantha Jayadewa,

Poojapitiya,

Metikumbura,

Polgahawela.

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. Air Marshal Harsha Abeywickrama,

Commander of the Sri Lanka Air Force,

Air Force Headquarters,

Colombo 02.

2. Air Vice Marshal K.R.A. Ranasinghe,

Director Administration,

Air Force Headquarters,

Colombo 02.

RESPONDENTS

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued on

Decided on

S.Sriskandarajah,T

2

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

Ranil Samarasooriya,

for the Petitioner.

Milinda Gunnathilake DSG

for Respondent

07.05.2013

16.07.2013

The Petitioner joined the Sri Lanka Air Force as a Cadet Officer on the 8th of December

1994 and he was commissioned as a Pilot Officer on the 8th of June 1996. Subsequently the

Petitioner was promoted to different ranks and he was confirmed in the rank of Squadron

Leader with effect from 8th of December 2008. The Petitioner submitted that on or about

February 2009, a summary trial against the Petitioner was conducted and the Petitioner pleaded

guilty to the charges and he was found guilty on his plea. The charge against the Petitioner was

that he had committed an offence of assistance of and/ or connivance at desertion. The

Petitioner was punished with 2 years loss of seniority in the Air Force and this punishment was

awarded from 5th of March 2009 and was confirmed by the Commander of the Sri Lanka Air

Force on the 22nct April2009. In view of this punishment with effect from 6th October 2009, the

Petitioner was reversed from the rank of Temporary Squadron Leader to the immediate junior

rank of Flight Lieutenant.

It is the submission of the Petitioner that the Petitioner was confirmed in the rank of

Squadron Leader with effect from 8th December 2008 and, therefore, the Petitioner could not

have been demoted from the said rank, and the Petitioner further contended that every officer

in the Sri Lanka Air Force holds his appointment during His Excellency the President's pleasure

and, therefore, it is only His Excellency the President could demote the Petitioner from the rank

of Squadron Leader. The Petitioner further contended that the Petitioner could not have been

reversed from the rank of Temporary Squadron Leader to the immediate junior rank of Flight

Lieutenant, as it is not a 2 year loss of seniority in the Air Force, but a demotion from one rank

3

to the immediate junior rank, which was not the punishment that was awarded to the Petitioner

and, therefore, the Petitioner submitted that the said decision is bad in law, illegal and ultra

vires to the powers of the Respondents. In these circumstances the Petitioner has sought a Writ

of Certiorari to quash the decision of the 1st Respondent to revert the Petitioner from the rank of

temporary Squadron Leader to the immediate junior rank of substantive Flight Lieutenant.

It is the submission of the Respondents that His Excellency the President has approved the

reduction in the rank of the Petitioner to the rank of Flight Lieutenant in terms of the powers

vested in His Excellency the President in terms of Regulation 3 of the Air Force Regulation. In

these circumstances the Respondents submit that the decision of His Excellency cannot be

challenged in these proceedings as His Excellency's decisions are immune from challenge in a

Court of Law.

The Respondents also submitted that even though the Petitioner was promoted to the

rank of temporary Squadron Leader on 8th December 2005, his promotion had not been

confirmed in the position of substantive Squadron Leader. Before the Petitioner was promoted

to the substantive rank of Squadron Leader, the Petitioner was found to have breached the Air

Force discipline and, after a summary trial, a punishment was imposed, and in view of that

punishment, the Petitioner's promotion to the substantive rank of Squadron Leader had not

taken effect. Due to the disciplinary order, the Commander of Air Force had written to the

Secretary, Ministry of Defence by his letter dated 31st January 2009, requesting the cancellation

of the promotion of the Petitioner to the post of substantive Squadron Leader with effect from

8/12/2008. Thereafter, the Commander of the Air Force had written to His Excellency the

President, through the Secretary, Ministry of Defence, by his letter dated 22nct April 2009,

recommending the reduction of the Petitioner's rank from temporary Squadron Leader to

immediate junior substantive rank of Flight Lieutenant, based on the finding of guilt of the

Petitioner in the summary trial. In these circumstances the Petitioner's promotion to the rank of

substantive Squadron Leader had not taken effect from 8/12/2008, and the Petitioner's

reduction of the Petitioner's rank from temporary Squadron Leader to the rank of Flight

Lieutenant was approved by His Excellency the President. The Petitioner's relief sought in this

application to quash the decision of the 1st Respondent to revert the Petitioner from the rank of

. .

4

temporary Squadron Leader to the immediate junior rank of substantive Flight Lieutenant is

misconceived in law. As the Jst Respondent's order was subsequently approved by His

Excellency the President and, as such, the final order was made by His Excellency the President,

and the said order is immune by the provisions of the Constitution and, in these circumstances

this Court cannot entertain the Petitioner's application and grant relief. As such, this Court

dismisses this application without cost.

President of the Court of Appeal