==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A 195/2010 High Court of Matara 89/08

A.Piyadasa No: 44/2, Old Market Road, Matara.

Appellant

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General Attorney General’s Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

C.A 195/2010

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED & DECIDED ON

1

High Court of Matara 89/08

SISIRA J DE ABREW, J & P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA. J.

Tenny Fernando for the Accused-Appellant.

Shanil Kularathne SSC for the State.

18.09.2013.

Accused-Appellant is present in court produced

by the Prison Authorities.

SISIRA J. DE ABREW J.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases. The Accused -

Appellant in this case was convicted of the offence of rape. Prosecution

had leveled three charges of rape against him. He was convicted of all

three charges. On the first charge he was sentenced to a term of 18

years rigorous imprisonment, to pay a sum of Rs.l 00,000/ - as

compensation to the victim carrying a default sentence of one year

rigorous imprisonment, and to pay a fine of Rs. 50,000/- carrying a

default sentence of six months rigorous imprisonment. On the second

I

I I , I I

1 I l !

2

count he was sentenced to a term of 18 years rigorous imprisonment. On

the third count he was sentenced to a term of 18 years ngorous

imprisonment (RI). Being aggrieved by the said convictions and the

sentences he has appealed to this court. The learned trial judge directed

that three terms of imprisonment (18 years RI) should run concurrently.

Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as follows.

Anoja Darshani who is the victim in this case is the grand daughter of

Kusumawathie. Kusumawathie has two daughters. The accused

appellant started living together with the elder daughter of

Kusumawathie and as a result of the said association elder daughter of

Kusumawathie produced a child. Thereafter the accused -appellant

started living with the second daughter of Kusumawathie and as a result

of the said association second daughter of Kusumawathie produced a

child whose name is Anoja Darshani. Anoja Darshani used to sleep in

the room where the accused was sleeping. According to the evidence led

at the trial, on the instructions of the accused appellant Anoja Darshani

used to sleep in the same bed where the accused slept. According to the

prosecution, on so many occaSIOns the accused appellant committed

sexual intercourse on her. She used to address the accused appellant

as "Lokuthatta". At the time of the incident she was about six years old.

Doctor who examined the girl has observed several tears in her hymen

I I I 1 : I I 1 I I I

I

\ I

,

3

The accused appellant did not give evidence or make a dock statement.

We have considered the evidence led at the trial and are of the opinion

that the prosecution has proved the case beyond reasonable doubt.

Learned counsel appearing for the accused appellant assisting court

submitted court that there are no compelling grounds to challenge the

conviction. We are pleased with this submission. When we consider the

evidence led at the trial, we see no reason to interfere with the judgment

~ of the learned trial Judge and thtrt the sentence imposed on the

accused appellant. We affirm the conviction and the sentence. We direct

the Prison Authorities to implement the sentence from the date of this

judgment (today). We direct that three terms of imprisonment (18 years

RI) should run concurrently.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Vkg/-