==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA (PHC) 137/2009

PHC Kegalle 2840/Writ

N a thavitharanagalage

Nandana

Chandra Guptha Ranathunga,

Deraniyagala.

Petitioner-Appellant.

Vs.

Pradeshiya Sabha,

Deraniyagala.

Responden t -Responden t.

BEFORE : A.W.A. Salam, J & Sunil Rajapaksha, J.

COUNSEL : Chathura Galhena with Manoj Gunawardana for the Petitioner-Appellant and Neil Dias for the Respondent-Respondent.

ARGUED ON: 22.01.2014

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS TENDERED ON: 11.03.2014

DECIDED ON: 05.06.2014

A W A Salam, J

The petitioner appellant invoked the writ jurisdiction of the

Provincial High Court seeking a writ of certiorari to quash a

gazette notification published by the respondent declaring

1

, , .'

/

/

l ;'

f

'I -

/

dismissed the application on the basis that the petitioner has

failed to give 1 month notice of the action to the Pradeshiya

Sabawa under Section2J4 (1) of Pradeshiyasabha Act No 15

of 1987. Section 214 (1) of the said Act reads as follows ....

No action shall be instituted against any Pradeshiya

Sabha ..... for anything done or intended to be done

under the powers conferred by this Act, or any by-law

made thereunder until the expiration of one month

next after notice in writing shall have been given to the

Pradeshiya Sabha Stating with reasonable

certainty the cause of such action and the name and

the place of abode of the intended plaintiff and of his

attorney-at-law or agent if any in such action. (Words

in Section 214(1) that are inapplicable to the present

application have been omitted) .

The only question that arises for consideration in this appeal

is the propriety of the decision of the learned High Court

Judge identifying the application for writ of cetiorari as an

"action instituted against the Pradeshiya Sabhawa".

It was contended on behalf of the appellant that the learned

High Court Judge has erred in law in coming to the

conclusion that the petitioner is required to give notice of the

action to the respondent as contemplated in Section 214(1).

<-. 2

It is to be observed that the writ jurisdiction of the Court of

Appeal is mainly governed by Article 140 of the Constitution

of the Democratic So~cialist Republic of Sri Lanka. The

important question that now arises for consideration is

whether the unrestricted writ jurisdiction conferred upon this

Court by the Constitution could be otherwise restricted in

any manner by the Provisions of an ordinary Legislation as in

the case of Section 214 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act.

In terms of Article 154 (P) (4) of the Constitution every

Provincial High Court shall have jurisdiction to issue,

according to law orders in the nature of writs of certiorari,

prohibition, procedendo, mandamus and quo warranto

against any person exercising, within the Province, any

power under any law;· or any statutes made by the Provincial

Council established for that Province, in respect of any

matter set out in the Provincial Council List ..

The jurisdiction conferred on the provincial High Courts to

grant orders in the nature of writs of certiorari, mandamus

and quo warranto should be considered as untrammelled by

any Legislation of ordinary nature.

It was so held in the case of Sirisena Cooray vs Thissa Dias

Bandarnayake 1999 1 SLR 1, in relation to the writ

jurisdiction conferred by Article 140 of the constitution. In

3

any event the prohibition imposed under Section 214 of the

Pradeshiya Sabha Act against the institution of an action

cannot be applied to an application made for the issuance of

an order in the nature of a writ of cetiorari under Article 154

(P) (5) of the Constitution. An action as referred to in Section

214 necessarily means an action as defined in 5 of the Civil

Procedure Code. In terms of Section 5 of the Civil Procedure

Code an "action" is a proceeding for the prevention or redress

of a wrong. A "cause of action" in terms of Section 5 of the

Civil Procedure Code would mean a wrong for the prevention

or redress of which an action can be brought, and includes

the denial of a right, the refusal to fulfil an obligation, the

neglect to perform a duty and the infliction of an affirmative

InJUry.

Accordingly, the reference made to an "action" and "cause of

action" cannot be interpreted to be a reference made to an

application filed in terms of Article 140 or ·154P (5) of the

Constitu tion.

As such, the learned High Court Judge has clearly

misdirected himself when he upheld the objection raised

under Section 214( 1). In the circumstances, I allow the

appeal and set aside the impugned order of the learned High

Court Judge, dismissing the application of the petitioner on

the ground of non-compliance of Section 214(1) of the

Pradeshiya Saba Act.

" 4 '-'

I I i

I I i I I I I I I I I

I I i I !

I ! 1 I

Consequently, the application made by the appellant to the

High Court of the relevant province is sent back for rehearing

to enable the learned High Court Judge to examine the

merits of the application and then enter judgment.

Appeal allowed. There shall be no costs.

Acting President of the Court of Appeal

Malini Gunaratna J

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

NRj-

5