==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

CA No: 869/97(F)

DC Kalutara 44101L

BEFORE

COUNSEL

K. Ariyaratne,

Bombuwala,

Kalutara.

Plaintiff - Appellant

Vs.

S. Sunil,

Bombuwala,

Kalutara.

Defendant - Respondent

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J

A. Dharmaratne for the Plaintiff - Appellant.

C.J. Lalduwahetti with Lalani Silva for the

Defendant Respondant.

1

ARGUED ON 06.06.2014

DECIDED ON 09.10.2014

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake J.

Kaluwadewage Ariyaratna of 'Aripic', Palayangoda, Bombuwala, the Plaintiff

Appellant nere in after referred to as the Plaintiff has filed the case bearing No: L

4410 in the District Court of Kalutara seeking inter alia for a judgment to eject S.

Sunil of Wakkada. Bombuwala, the Defendant Respondent here in after referred to

as the Defendant from the land described in the schedule to the plaint on the basis

that the Defendant had been the license of the Plaintiff's predecessor in title and

after becoming the owner of the property, the Plaintiff had withdrawn the licence

by the letter dated 24.04.1995 sent by his lawyer demanding the Defendant to quit

2

i III

tf

, t

tIItII; !

tIIIi

fr

I

and handover the possession of the land, and the Defendant without even replying

to the said letter was still continuing to occupy the building situated in the said

land.

The Defendant has taken up the possession that the subject matter of the case was

owned by one P.L.D. Premarathne and the Defendant's father S. Sediris who ran a

bicycle repair shop in the premises had obtained the land on rent from said

Premarathne. The Defendant has stated that after the death of his father in 1994,

he was carrying on the business. Therefore, Defendant is holding the position that

he is a protected tenant under the rent Act and his tenancy had not been

terminated in terms of the Rent Act.

The District Judge has accepted the fact that the Defendant's father had been the

tenant of the premises in question and the Defendant has become the tenant after

the demise of his father by operation of law. Therefore, he has decided to dismiss

the plaint on the basis that Plaintiff must taken steps under the provisions of the

Rent Act if the Plaintiff wants to eject the Defendant.

The Plaintiff Appellant has filed this appeal being aggrieved by the said judgment.

The argument of the learned Counsel for the Accused Appellant is that the

Plaintiff's case was a Reai Vindicatio Action. Therefore, once the title of the Plaintiff

has been proved, the burden lies on the Defendant to prove that he has a legal

right to be in the possession of the property. The learned Counsel submits that the

3

I

I[

I!I l[

Defendant in his evidence at the trial has admitted the title of the Plaintiff. The

receiving of the letter by the Defendant sent to him by the Plaintiff demanding to

handover vacant and peaceful possession of the land which has been marked as P3

was an admission. The learned Counsel argues that the Plaintiff has proved all

ingredients in a Reai Vindicatio Action on those two points. Two decided cases

namely Theivandran Vs. Ramanathan Chettiar {1986 2 SLR 291} and Kandappa nee

Bastian Vs. PonnambalamPille {1993 1 SLR 184} have been cited to emphasise the

legal possession submitted by the counsel. In Ramanathan Chettiyar case, it has

been held, " when the legal title to the premises is admitted or proved to be in the

Plaintiff, the burden of proof is on the defendant to show he is in lawful possession. N

And the same principle has been accepted in Pahnambalam case holding "since title

to the premises was admittedly in the Plaintiff, the burden was on the Defendant to

show by what right he was in occupation of the premises".

The other point raised by the learned Counsel for the Accused Appellant is that the

absence of tenancy agreement between either the Plaintiff or the Plaintiff's

predecessor in title and the Defendant. He emphasised the fact that the Defendant

in his answer has specifically states that there was no tenancy agreement between

the Plaintiff or Plaintiff's predecessor in title and the Defendant. There the learned

Counsel again cites the PonnambalamPille case where the court has considered the

concept of 'mutual assent' that should be there in creating a tenancy agreement.

4

The learned counsel analyses the evidence of the Defendant to show that the

Defendant had failed to prove that even Premarathna who was the original owner

according to the Defendant had collected the rent for the particular premises from

the Defendant's father. It has been quoted the following passage from Imbaldeniya

Vs. D.De.Silva -1987 -1 SLR 367."

"In view of the above holding, I cannot agree with the consent of counsel for the

Defendant Appellant that the entirety of the protection granted by the rent Act No:

07 of 1972, is premises in suit and not the contract of tenancy. The rent Act affords

statutory protection in respect of rent controlled premises to a tenant who has

entered the premises on a valid contract of tenancy. The rent restriction Act does

not apply where the true owner sues the Defendant as trespasser. /I

The counsel for the Defendant Appellant has not commented on the findings of the

learned District Judge with reference to the Plaintiff's own evidence that Sed iris,

the father of the Defendant had been in the possession of the premises in suit even

prior to the transfer of the ownership to Sumeda Thero who was the Plaintiffs

predecessor.

The fact that when we find the receipts of payment to a place in Bobuwala as rent

and when it has not been proved that these payments had been made in respect of

another place, for a point of view of a reasonable man it should be accepted that

this rent had been paid to the place where Sediris was in posseSSion. Admittedly

5

the area where the subject matter is situated is an area which comes under the

Rent Act. It is an undisputed fact that Sed iris ran a bicycle repair shop and it was

run by the Defendant following his demise. There by the Defendant's coming to the

legal position of his father by operation of law is something that cannot be

excluded. Thus, the existing law compels this court to agree to the contention of

the Counsel for the Defendant Respondent that once it has been proved the

existence of the tenancy, the Defendant does not dispute the proprietary rights of

the Plaintiff, and the premises comes under the provisions of the Rent Act, the

Plaintiff can eject the Defendant only under the provisions of the Rent Act.

Therefore, this court sees no reason to interfere with the judgment of the learned

District Judge and decides that the appeal shall be dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

6

II