==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA (PHC) APN 02/2013 HC-Negombo-HCRA 614/2012

Selladurai Vijayakumaran No. 36A, Vandervert Place, Dehiwala

3rd Accused-Petitioner-Petitioner Vs. The Officer in Charge Anti-Human Trafficking Unit Criminal Investigations Department Colombo 01 The Attorney General Attorney General's Department Colombo 12

Respondent-Respondents

CA (pac) APN 02/2013 aC-Negombo-aCRA 614/2012

Before K.T. Chitrasiri, J. &

Counsel

Decided on

K.T. Chitrasiri, J.

W.M.M. Ma1inie Gunarathna, J.

M. A. Kumarasinghe for the 3rd Accused

Petitioner

Kapila Waidyarathna,PC ASG for the Respondent

15.10.2014

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases. This

is an application in revision, seeking to revise and set aside

the order dated 21.11.2011 of the learned High Court Judge and

also to have a stay order staying all the proceedings filed in

the case bearing No J67656 in the Magistrate's Court, Negombo.

When this matter was taken up before the learned Magistrate on

the 02.02.2012, learned counsel who appeared for the accused

objected to the 1st witness being called to give evidence.

Therefore, it has resulted preventing the prosecution to call

even a single witness. The objection was on the basis that the

witness who was to give evidence had not made a statement to the

III

~

tf

!Jf

tEft

J

il

i

Police. Accordingly, the counsel who appeared for the accused

has contended that the witness, that the prosecution intended

to call is not a competent witness in terms of Section 109 and

110 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Code Act.

Learned Magistrate having related the background upon which the

witness was to call, has overruled the objection and has allowed

the prosecution to call him as a witness. Being aggrieved by

the said decision, the petitioner filed a revision application

in the High Court. High Court Judge too has upheld the decision

of the learned Magistrate.

Accordingly, we will now turn to consider the law relevant to

the issue. Section 109 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act

requires a police officer or an inquirer to reduce to writing,

information relating to the commission of an offence that had

been given orally or in writing. In this instance, the witness

who was to give evidence on behalf of the prosecution has

informed the police as to a commission of an offence after

having apprehended the petitioner in this case at the Airport in

Katunayake.

Learned Additional Solicitor General, at this stage submits that

the petitioner in this application is one of the persons who had

been deported from Dubai.

tJt

t

t

\

In this instance, an objection had been taken on behalf of the

petitioner before the said witness was called to give evidence.

At that stage, nothing was elicited to ascertain whether the

information given by the witness was reduced to writing or not.

Hence, the learned Magistrate had no opportunity to ascertain

whether the information referred to in Section 109 (1) was

reduced to writing or not. Therefore, the obj ection that had

been raised on behalf of the accused is clearly premature.

Learned Additional Solicitor General submits that the

information received by the police had been reduced to writing.

Therefore, we do not see any violation of the matters referred

to in Section 109 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act.

Learned Counsel for the petitioner, referring to the case of

Wijesiri VS The Attorney General, submitted that the provisions

contained in Chapter 11 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act

are to be considered as important and those will have to be

strictly followed. The law referred to in that decision is not

being disputed. In this instance, we do not see any act by

which the provisions contained in the said chapter II had been

undermined.

Therefore, the aforesaid decision in wijesiri Vs The Attorney

General (Supra) referred to by the learned counsel for the

petitioner is not relevant to the issue at hand.

Moreover, we do not see any prejudice caused to the accused by

calling the witness from the Department of Immigration and

Emigration who has performed official duties. The accused even

has the right to cross-examine the witness, once he is called to

the witness box. Indeed, it is apparent that this is an attempt

to delay the witnesses being called to give evidence.

For the aforesaid reasons, we dismiss this revision application.

The learned Magistrate is directed to expedite the trial in this

case and conclude the same within a period of 3 months from the

date of the receipt of the decision of this apeal.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M.Malinie Gunarathne, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

LA/-