==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA No: 319/98(F) DC Kalutara 6175/P

HathuruSinghe Premadasa Silva Kuda Waskaduwa, Waskaduwa.

Defendant-Appellant Vs.

Mahadurage Sisiwathi Perera No: 01, Station Road, Kuda Waskaduwa, Waskaduwa.

Complainant-Respondent

C.A. 319/98(F)

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED AND

DECIDED ON

K. T. CHITRASIRI, J.

D.C.Kalutara No. 6175/P

K. T. CHITRASIRI, J.

Srinath Kumarasinghe for the 7th , BA and 9A

Defendant-Appellants.

Athula Perera for the 5th & 21st Defendant-

Respondents.

Malaka Herath for the Plaintiff-Respondent.

14th June, 2013

1

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the order dated Q6th

February 1998 of the learned District Judge of Kalutara. By that order,

learned District Judge refused an application to add the parties who were

disclosed in the amended statement of claim of the 7th. 8th and 9th

defendants. Being aggrieved by that order, this appeal had been

preferred by them. However, the case had proceeded despite the delivery

of the impugned order and finally the District Judge had even

pronounced the judgment.

Under those circumstances, learned Counsel appeanng for the

defendant-respondent submits that the appellants cannot have and

maintain this appeal since they have file a final appeal without leave of

2

the Court been obtained, it being an "order" not amounting to a

"judgment".

At this stage, Mr. Kumarasinghe appeanng for the three

appellants submits that his clients were given due shares, according to

their rights to the land and he has no complain to make as far as the

land to which the order to partition had been made. Accordingly, he

submits that he is willing to withdraw this appeal if the 7th, 8th and 9th

defendant-appellants are free to file a partition action to have the balance

land that was not the corpus in this case, partitioned. Counsel for the

respondents have no objections to this application. Accordingly, the

application to withdraw this appeal is allowed having retained their right

to file a partition action in respect of the lots 2 and 3 referred to in the

plan bearing No.670B of B.K.P.W.Gunawardena, Licensed Surveyor since

those two lots were not part of the corpus in this case. In the

circumstances, application to withdraw this appeal is allowed.

Accordingly, the appeal is dismissed without costs.

Appeal dismissed without costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Kwk/-