==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

Court of Appeal case

No. CA 0812015 Writ

In the matter of an Application for a mandate in the nature of Writ of Mandamus made under and in terms of Article 140 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

Herath Mudiyanselage Vijitha Herath, No. 464/20, Pannipitiya Road, Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

Vs.

1. Inspector General of Police, Police Head Quarters, Colombo 01.

Petitioner

2. Secretary to the Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Defence,

15/5, Baladaksha Mawatha, Colombo 03.

3. Controller General of Immigration and Emigration, No.41, Ananda Rajakaruna Mawatha, Colombo 10.

4. Commander of Army, Army I lead Quarters, Colombo 03.

5. Commander Security Forces, Kilinochchi, Security Forces, Head Quarters, Army Camp, Iranamadu, Kilinochchi.

I,! I I

r

\

l

ttI

~

~ f!! tIt1

It

t

f!II

Before

Counsel

6. Director, Terrorist Investigation Division. Criminal Investigation Division. New Secretariat, Colombo 01.

7. The Hon. Attorney General, Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

8. Shanmugam Kumaran Tharmalingham

2

alias Tharmalingham Shanmugam Kumaran alias Kumaran Pathmanathan alias Kutti Master alias Kutti Siri LTTE, alias Thambiah Selvaraja alias Kuldi who was known as "KP", NERDO Office, Thondaman Nagar Road, Kanagambigai Kulam, Kilinochchi.

L.'1'.B. Dehideniya ], (PICA)

&

J\.L. Shiran Gooneratne 1.

Respondents

Upul Kumarapperuma with Wajirani Wickramasinghc for the

Petitioner.

Priyantha Nawana ASG, PC for the Respondents.

Supported on : 07/1112017

Decided on : 30/1112017

Order

A.L. Shiran Gooneratne J.

t , t ,

f I(

IIIi Ift

I 3

The Petitioner has liled Petition datcd 19th January 2015, pleading inter

alia, to grant and issue a mandate in the nature of a Writ of Mandamus on thc 1

st

and i h Respondents.

a) directing them to arrest the 8th Respondent;

b) produce the 8th Respondent before the relevant Court/ Courts and

subject the 8th Respondent to judicial custody;

c) investigate the offences committed by the 8th Respondent;

d) institute judicial proceedings against the 8th Respondent;

According to paragraph 28 of the Petition the said directions are sought

based on the information provided therein, by the Government of Sri Lanka to the

nation regarding the offences committed by Shanmugam Kumaran

Tharmalingham alias KP, .... (8th Respondent). In support of the above contention,

the Petitioner has attached to the Petition documents marked P-I to P-7 all of

which are printouts obtained from the World Wide Web.

In terms of paragraphs (e), (t), (g) and (h) to the prayer, the Petitioner has

sought mandates in the nature of Writ of Mandamus against the Respondents on

the failure to perform specilic acts. that is;

1. to arrest the 8th Respondent.

2. to investigate the crimes committed by the 8th Respondent.

3. to institute judicial proceeding against the 8th Respondent.

4. to produce the 8th Respondent before a relevant Court/ Courts or la\"

and subject him to judicial custody. It I Ir !

f

~

4

Counsel appearing for the Respondents submit that at present the I S\ yd. 6th

and i h Respondents have investigated alleged offences committed by the 8th

Respondent. In support. the attention of Court is drawn to reports submitted by the

i h Respondent dated 20th October 2015. l3 th November 2015 and 26th January

2016, filed of record. Counsel further submits that the directions sought in respect

of paragraphs (e), (f) and (h) are subject to discretion and to official Judgement of

the relevant public Authorities and therefore does not come within the ambit of a

Writ of Mandamus.

Directions sought can be given by a Court where a statute imposes a clear

and qualified duty to perform specific acts. However where a public body is

exercising a discretionary power as in this instance, a Writ of Mandamus can issue

to order such public body to consider whether or not to exercise such discretion

and not interfere in any manner with the exercise of such discretion. As pointed

out by the A.S.G.

"If a clear and specific duty is positively required by law to be

done bJ/ any authorit}' and the duty is of a ministerial nature

involving no element of discretion and no exercise of ojficial

judgement, Mandamus is the appropriate remedy to compel its

petjorlnance in the absence of an,V other adequate and specific

remedy. .. (Writ Remedies. Justice B.P. Banerjee, 6

th Edition at

page 173)

Judicial Remedies in Public Law, Clive Lewis, 2

nd Edition at page 193 states.

5

"Public bodies may not be under a duty to act, but may be given

a discretion as to whether or not to act. Such bodies are under a

common law duty to consider whether or not to exercise their

discretion. Where a public body fails to consider exercising its

discretion ar tnakes a reviewable error in deciding nol to

exercise it, mandamus can issue 10 order the body to consider

according to law whether or not to exercise the discretion. "

The Petitioner is seeking directions in the nature of Writ of Mandamus to

compel the 1 st to i h Respondents to perform specific acts. As pointed out, when

discretion is vested with a public authority to act and when such discretion is

subject to official judgement, to compel such authority by directing the

performance of an act, which is not imposed by statute or without a clear legal

right to perform, is misconceived in law.

In the circumstances application for notice is refused. Petition dismissed.

We make no order as to costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

L.T.B. Dehideniya J, (PICA)

I agree.

PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAl.

\ I F ,