==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I J

~ j J

J I I I I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REflYBLIIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA(PHC(142(2010

MC Colombo 89623( 05(2006

HC Colombo HCRA 54(2007

BEFORE: A.W.A. Salam, J. &

Sunil Rajapakshe, J.

Ceylon Petroleum Corporation. No. 109, Rotanda Tower, Galle Road, Colombo 03. Respondent-Petitioner-Appellant Vs.

E.M. Gunapala, Assistant Commissioner of Labour, Legal Division, Department of Labour, Colombo 05. Complainant-Respondent-Respondent.

COUNSEL : P. Radhakrishnan for the Respondent-Petitioner-Appellant and Nayomi Kahawita SC for the Complainant-Responde nt-Respondent.

ARGUED ON: 18.07.2013 DECIDED ON: 04.03.2014

A.W.A. Salam. J

This appeal arises from the order of the learned High Court Judge

dated 09.12.2010. By the said judgment the learned High Court

refused the application to review the order of the learned

Magistrate, inter alia on the basis that the appellant had failed to

establish the existence of exceptional circumstances. The

proceedings in the Magistrate's Court commenced with the

f

!!

tI

Labour filing a certificate under Section 8(1) of the Gratuity Act No

12 '<?f 1983 against the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (hereinafter

referred to as the Appeliant) for the recovery of gratuity in respect

of eight employee. The learned Magistrate after having called upon

the employer the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation to show cause as

to why the amount mentioned in the certificate should not be

recovered as a fine, concluded that the sum mentioned in the

certificate is due and proceeded to recover the same as if it is a fine

imposed by him, since the employer failed to show cause against

the same.

The only ground urged by the employer against the certificate was

that the amount mentioned in the certificate filed by the

Commissioner was ex facie wrongful in that the amount due has

been incorrectly calculated. When a certificate is filed under

Section 8 of the aforementioned the Magistrate's Court is under

duty to call upon the defaulter to show cause as to why an order

should not be made against the employer to recover the same. The

learned Magistrate has complied with this requirement and the

employer has not been able to show cause against the recovery the

amount mentioned in the certificate. Taking in to consideration the

judgment in Rustom Vs. Hapangama and Company 1978 79 2 Sri

Lanka Law Report 225 and the judgment in Dharmaratne and

another Vs. Palm Paradise Cabanas Ltd. CALA 1113/03, the

learned High Court Judge came to the finding that the aellant has

failed to m~ke out any exceptional circumstances warranting the

invocation of the discretionary remedy.

Having considered the impugned judgment of the learned High

<l,u.L l£. Court Judge it is a:ett...clear that the employer has failed to establish

an illegality, procedural defect or other exceptional circumstances

that call for the intervention of the High Court. As such the appeal

01.\ i preferred by the Appellant in my view merits no fav#rable

consideration. Therefore, this appeal stands dismissed subject to

costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Sunil Rajapakshe, J.

I.agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

NRj-

II

;

it

~i

fi IJi! If II• , i

~ I ri !, l ! I

tF