==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DECMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA No. 507/99(F) DC Kurunegala Case No. 5104/L

N.A Thilakarathna Ediriweera No: 97, Kurunegala Road, Godawela, Polgahawela.

Defendendent Appellant Vs. T.M Nandawathi Thennakoon Morahela Beheth Shalawa, Kooripotta, Pothu Hera.

Complainant Respondent

1

C.A. No. 507/99(F) D.C. Kurunegala Case No. 5104/L

Before

Counsel

Argued& Decided on

A.W.A. Salam, J.

A.W.A. Salam, J.

P.L. Gunawardane for the Defendant-Appellant.

D.M.G. Dissanayake for the Plaintiff-Respondent.

29.01.2013.

********

Mr. Dissanayake Counsel for the Plaintiff-Respondent

tenders Written Submissions. P .L. Gunawardane states that he has no

instructions from the registered Attorney-at-Law to appear in this case.

The judgment in this case has been entered by the

learned District Judge against the defendant as prayed for in the plaint

after ex-parte hearing. Defendant made no application to purge default

but made an application at a later stage after the decree was executed

2

on 29.10.19997. No resistence had been offered at the execution or an

application filed under Section 328. After the writ was executed the

Defendant-Judgment-debtor made an application purportedly under

Section 839 of the Civil Procedure Code seeking that the judgment

entered for default be set aside, he be granted permission to file

answer and order be made for restoration of possession. The learned

District Judge on this application by order dated 16.03.1999 refused

the application inter-alia on the ground that summons had been duly

handed over to the defendant and the writ of execution that has been

properly executed. The present appeal has been preferred against the

said order. The learned Counsel for the Plaintiff-Respondent contends

that the impugned order is not one which attracts the provisions of

Section 7 54( 1) of the Civil Procedure Code under which an appeal

could be preferred as of a statutory right.

In support of his contention he has cited the

judgment in Siriwardane Vs. Air Ceylon 1984 1 S.L.R. 286. There is

already a judgment entered against the Defendant which is appealable

3

and the defendant has not even sought to set aside the judgment

entered for default which also appealable. In the light of argument

placed by learned Counsel for the Plaintiff-Respondent, I am in total

agreement that the impugned order is not one that is appealable as of

right. In the circumstances I uphold the objection and dismiss the appeal

without costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

AKN