==== BLOCKS ==== 

.---) ,

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

i Appeal No.625/95(F)-625A/95(F) .

D.C.Kalutara No.5155/P

Loku Kankanamge Margaret Peiris, Behind Market, Galle Road, Aluthgama.

4th Defendant-Appellant

Vs.

Weerakanda Aratchige Piyasena Silva,

No.46/4, Welipenna Road, Aluthgama.

Plaintiff-Respondent

1. Sarath Liyanage, Pitawella, Boosa.

2. Rochana Rajapske(Minor)

3. Rajapkse Udagelara, Mithrasena (for himself and as guardian of 2nd Defendant Both of No.71, Galle Road, Aluthgama.

5. Warnapurage Gamini Fernando of Ganegama, Aluthgama.

6. Kirakankanamge Laura Nona.

7. Cyril Ananda Silva, Both of No.41, Galle Road, . Aluthgama.

Defendant-Respondents

"

Counsel: N.R.M. Daluwatte P.C. with Gayahtri De Silva for the

6th and 7th Defendants/Appellants.

L.C. Kumarasinghe for the 4th Defendant/Appellant.

C.Laduwahetti for the PlaintifflRespondent.

S.N. Vijithsingh for the 2nd and 3rd DefendantslRespondents.

Arguments: 19-5-2011

Written Submissions: 31-5-2011(6th Defendants/Appellants)

21-2-2011(4th Defendant/Appellant)

Before: Rohini Marasinghe J

Judgment: 20-6-2011.

CA 625-95

The plaintiff-respondent instituted a partition action to partition the land

called "Santhakurusiyawatte alias Rendawatte" described in the schedule to

the plaint. After trial the learned trial judge entered judgment in favour the

plaintiff. The 4th defendant the 6th defendant and t h defendant have appealed

against the said judgment.

The case of the plaintiff as pleaded was briefly as follows;

The land in suit was depicted in plan bearing No 118 made in 1903.(P1)

According to that plan the land was described as lot "A" and lot fiB"

comprising of two distinct lands. Each lot had an equal extent of 8.8 perches of

land. This land was originally owned by one Amaris Silva and Endoris Silva.

The" said land was surveyed by a commission issued by court. The commission

plan prepared by Licensed Surveyor Ambepitiya bearing No 2059 was marked

as 'X'. In that plan the land in suit was depicted as lots flA" and "B". The

contention of the plaintiff was that though the land was shown as two distinct

lands in plan 118 and as having two owners, the land was an undivided land

owned in common by the said owners. On this basis the plaintiff pleaded his

pedigree. The pl~intiff claimed from the undivided 1/2 share of said Endoris.

1

And, according to the plaintiff the share of Amaris devolved on the 2

nd and the

3rd defendants. The plaintiff contended that said Endoris had died leaving as

his heirs 7 children. Two of the said children named Henry and Charlotte had

died unmarried. Consequently, their share devolved on their siblings. And

another sibling named Isaac had died leaving as his heirs Nicholas and Ramani.

All of them other than one named Maggie together by deed no 10766 had

transferred their share to Sirisena. And said Sirisena By deed No 1047 had

transferred his share to the plaintiff. The aforementioned Maggie had

transferred her share to the 1st defendant by deed No 6477. That was a

separate transfer.

The case of the 4th defendant-appellant was briefly as follows;

The 4th defendant is one Margret Peiris. She claimed that Endoris was the sole

owner of the land in suit. And she claimed her title to the land in suit through

her predecessors in title. According to the evidence of the 4th defendant

Endoris was married to one Charlotte. And they had 7 children who bec.ame

the sole heirs of the land in suit, after the death of their parents. And she

further averred that the said children other than Maggie by deed no 10766

(P2) transferred their shares to one Sirisena Cooray. In the deed 10766 the

2

executants were the heirs of the said Endoris. The land is described in the

schedule to the deed as "Santhakurusiya watte alias Renda watte bounded on

the north by the land of Basthian Appu, on the East by road South by the

boutique of L.Nicholas Peirs, on the West by the Mahawatte having an extent

of 16.16 perches. In the preliminary plan the land in suit is described as lots

"A" and "B". And the 4th defendant stated that said Sirisena by deed No 1048

had sold a portion of his share to her the 4th defendant. According to the deed

1047 said Sirisena appears to have transferred an extent of 8.8 shares from lot

"A" of plan No 118 to the 4th defendant on 29-4-1983.

The case of the 6th and the 7ht defendant-appellants was briefly as follows;

The 6th defendant is the mother of the ih defendant. They had claimed the

building bearing the assessment No 65 and the land adjacent to the building

bearing assessment No 71 on the basis that they have prescribed to said lots.

The i h defendant had given evidence at the trial. In his evidence he had stated

that the one Balahamy Dias and one Lanty Silva and Haramanis Fernando were

the original owners. According to him said Balahamy owned half share and the

balance were owned in equal shares by Lanty and Haramanis. The ih

defendant had marked several deeds to prove the devolution of his title .. But

the foundation to his claim was the identity of the corpus. The 6th defendant

3

had taken a commission to establish his claim. The Licensed Surveyor by the

name of one Gunawardena had surveyed the land shown by the 6th defendant.

And he had superimposed that plan on the surveyor General's plan No 60. In

the Surveyor Generals Plan No 60 the land depicted as lots 493 and 494 was

superimposed on plan No 327. And in the plan 827 the land in suit is depicted

as lots 1 and 2. But the surveyor had failed to superimpose the plan 827 on

the plan 2059 as directed by the commission. The surveyor was unable to

identify the land from any of the plans already before court. The 6th defendant

claimed that the said portion of the land should be excluded from the corpus.

And they further pleaded that in the event the court holds that the portions of

land claimed by them formed part and parcel of the land in suit, then, they

request the court to allot the said portions of land to them on the basis of

prescription. The learned trial judge dismissed the claim of the 6th defendant

in relation to the identity of the corpus and held that the corpus had been

sufficiently identified by the respondent. Consequently, he held that the said

portion was part and parcel of the corpus. But the trial Judge held that the 6th

defendant had only established his prescriptive title to the building bearing No

65 and nothing more. The deeds tendered by the 6th and 7th defendants had

not helped them to establish their claim to the land in suit. I have read the

4

reasons of the trial Judge for that determination in the impugned judgment. I

see no reason to interfere with that decision.

The land in suit appears to have been a distinct portion of a larger land. The

entire land was called "Santhakurusiya watte". Consequently, to the North and

the South West were portions of the land in suit. The land to be partitioned is

clearly shown in the preliminary Plan 2059(X) as lots "A" and "B". The land

outside the lots A and B are therefore, outside the corpus.

The next issue was with regard to the devolution of title.

The plaintiff submitted that there were two original owners to the land in suit.

They were one Amaris Silva and Endoris Silva. The plaintiff claimed the share

by making his claim from the original owner Endoris. Additionally, the plaintiff

pleaded that the share of Amaris devolved on the 2nd and the 3rd defendants.

The Court had held that the plan 118 had shown these two lands depicting as

two distinct lands, though they were possessed as one undivided land. The

learned trial judge held that the 4th defendant had admitted that the said

Amaris was living on this land. The 4th defendant came to own this land only in

1984. The attention was drawn to his evidence dated 28-6-1993. According to

the trial judge the 4th defendant had admitted that the children of Amaris had

5

possessed this land. I have examined that evidence. That evidence was not

sufficient to prove that Amaris possessed this land as the original owner. A

mere statement that the sons of Amaris mortgaged this property to one John

and left the country cannot be construed as proof of ownership. There should

be evidence to support this proposition. The trial judge should not allot shares

except upon good proof. It is settled law that in partition suits it is the

paramount duty of the judge to fully investigate into the title to the land and

shares. I am of the view that the evidence in the case had not been led

sufficiently to prove the title of Amaris. The 4th defendant had in his evidence

affirmed that the 3rd defendant was in possession of the land bearing No 73

and 75 depicted in the preliminary plan ItX". The learned trial judge had not

dealt with the deed 1048 marked by the 4th defendant. Both plaintiff and the

4th defendant claimed title through the same source. The 4th defendant and the

plaintiff purchased the land in 1984 from one Sirisena Coo ray.

The case of the plaintiff disclosed by the evidence was as follows;

In the cross examination the plaintiff admitted that the said Sirisena Coo ray

became the owner by virtue of the deed executed by the heirs of the said

Endoris. Consequently, as admitted by the plaintiff the said Sirisena at one

6

•

time owned the entire property in suit. Out of which one half was transferred

to the plaintiff and the balance was transferred to the 4th defendant (Vide

proceedings dated 8-2-1983 at page 28 )

I have examined the deed 10766. In that deed No 10766 the heirs of Endoris

have transferred 16.16 perches of land. The said deed contains no reference to

any plan. But the deeds by which said Sirisena had transferred to the plaintiff

and the 4th defendant refer to the plan 118(Pl). Consequently, the two deeds

clearly mention that lot B in plan 118, having an extent of 8.8, had been

transferred to the plaintiff. The lot A having an extent of 8.8 perches in plan

No: 118 has been transferred to the 4th defendants. Admitted by both the

plaintiff and the 4th defendant, the assessment No 73 and 75 depicted in the

preliminary plan had been in the possession of the 2

nd and the 3

rd defendants.

In the plan, some portions of the said lands are to be found within the land in

suit. The parties could claim only the land that is within the corpus. The

plaintiff had stated that the original owner Amaris Silva owned part of the land

in suit. In addition to that statement there was no evidence supporting the

ownership of Amaris. Therefore, I am of the view that Amaris may have had

the legal title to the property in suit at one time. But Endoris had possessed

the land in suit as the sole heir. Consequently, the heirs of Endoris had

alienated the entire land in suit on the deed 10766. Therefore, based on this

7

•

finding I vary the judgment and the decree and direct that the judgment and

the decree should include as follows;

The 6th defendant is entitled to the building bearing No 65 in plan "X". The 2nd

and the 3

rd defendants are entitled to the lands described as 73 and 75 in the

plan "X". The plaintiff and the 4th defendant are entitled to the balance share

of the land in equal shares. But all entitlements should remain within the lots

described in the preliminary plan.

The issues are answered in the following manner.

Issue No 1. Yes.

Issue No 2. No

Issue No 3. Yes.

Issue No4. See above.

Issue No 5. Not proved.

Issue No 6. No. The entitlement is due on prescription.

Issue No7. The lots bearing No's 73 and 75, but the extents that are outside

the preliminary plan are excluded.

Issue No 8. Yes.

8

•

Issue No9. Not proved.

Issue No 10. Not proved.

Issue No 11. The lots A and B are part and parcel of the corpus.

Issue No12. Yes.

Issue No 13 No.

Issue No 14-18 No.

Issue No 19 No

Issue No 20 -The building No 65 - only the area which is within the corpus

described in the preliminary plan marked as "X"

Issue No 21-0nly building No 65 as mentioned above.

Issue No 22- No

Issue No 23- No

Issue 25 Yes. At one time it was possessed as one land.

Issue No 26 Not proved.

Issue No 27 No.

Issue No 28 No.

9

The issues dated 28-2-1993 as follows;

(1) Yes.

(2) No.

The Judgment is varied. The appeal of the 4th defendant is allowed. The appeal

of the 6th and the 7th defendants is dismissed.

Rohini Marasinghe J

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

10