==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DECMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA 173/2010 H.C. Badulla No.38/02

Aththanayake Mudiyanselage Siripala Kumbure Gedara, Udugama, Passara.

Appellant Vs. Hon. Attorney General Attorney General’s Department Colombo 12.

Respondent

C.A.173/2010

Before

Counsel

Argued and Decided on:

H.C. Badulla No.38/02

Sisira de Abrew, J. and

Sunil Rajapakshe,J.

Amila Palliyage for the Accuse~-Appellant.

Shanil Kularathne SSC for A.G.

28.01.2013.

Sis ira de A brew, J.

' Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The Accused-appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of

a man named Kulathunga Arachchilage Piyasena and was sentenced to

death. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence the

accused-appellant has appealed to this Court.

Facts of this case may be briefly summarised as follows:-

'

On the day of the incident the accused-appellant assaulted the

deceased with an iron rod. This was witnessed by Wasantha and

1

Wijesinghe who gave evidence. On seeing that some people have

gathered near the accused- appellant's house, one Cyril a person living in

the neighbourhood of the accused-appellant went to the accused-

appellant's house and found the deceased person hanging to the beam of

the roof by two hands. According to the post-mortem report deceased

person had several injuries. The accused .. appellant, in his dock

statement, stated that he has nothing else to state except the matters set

out in his appeal submitted to the Judge on the previous day. But we

find that no such appeal had been submitted by the accused-appellant

on the previous day. When we consider the evidence at the trial we feel

that there are no reasons to interfere with the judgment of the learned

trial Judge. We therefore affirm the conviction and the death sentence

and dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Sunil Rajapakshe,J.

I agree

Judge of the Court of Appeal

l WC/-

2