==== BLOCKS ==== 

J j I

~ 1 I I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for the issue

of Writ of Certiorari and Prohibition under

and in terms of Article 140 of the

Constitution of the Democratic Socialist

Republic of Sri Lanka.

*******

C.A. (Writ) Application No.663/2010

1

FONTERRA BANDS LANKA (PVT) LTD.

(formerly known as New Zealand Milk

Lanka Ltd), of No. 100, Delgoda Road,

Biyagama.

PETITIONER

Vs

1. The Commissioner GeneraL

Department of Inland Revenue,

Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner

Mawatha, Colombo 02.

2. Mr. S.H.P.C.S. Perera, Assessor

Unit 68, Department of Inland

Revenue, Sir Chittampalam A.

Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 02. ,I

f,

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

3. Ms. R.K.c. Chitralatha, Senior

Assessor, Unit 6B, Department of

Inland Revenue, Sir Chittampalam

A. Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 02.

4. Mr. J.M. Jayawardena,

Commissioner Appeals,

Department of Inland Revenue,

Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner

Mawatha, Colombo 02.

RESPONDENTS

*******

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

: K. Kanag Isvaran PC for the

Petitioner.

Priyantha Nawana DSG for the

Respondents.

: 18th March, 2014

: 18th July, 2014

2

\ 1 I Oeepali Wijesundera J.

The petitioner is a duly incorporated company in Sri Lanka

engaged in importing manufacturing and selling milk powder and milk

products. The respondents are the Commissioner General and

Assessors of the Department of Inland Revenue.

The petitioner is challenging the purported assessment of taxable

income for the year of assessment 2004/2005 and the determination

made pursuant to that the Inland Revenue Act No. 38 of 2000.

The petitioner has filed this application for writs of Certiorari to

quash letters marked as P4 dated 25/03/200, Assessment made on

28/03/2008 notice dated 11/06/2008 marked as P6, determination dated

01/07/2010 marked as P13, reasons for the said determination dated

14/07/2010 marked as P15. Petitioner has also prayed for a writ of

Prohibition to restrain the respondents from implementing the

assessment dated 28/03/2008 and the notice marked P6.

f3

The petitioner before the 30th of November 2005 in terms of

Sec. 98 of the Act had submitted its Tax Returns for the assessment

year 2004/2005 to the respondents this is marked as P2 and the receipt

issued to the petitioner is marked as P3. The petitioner has received a

letter dated 25103/2008 from the 2nd respondent stating that the Income

Tax Return for the year 200412005 has not been accepted in terms of

sec. 134(3) of Act No. 38 of 2000 and said letter is an intimation. This is

marked as P4. The learned Presidents' Counsel for the petitioner stated

that any assessment of the income tax payable by the petitioner for the

year of assessment ending 31/03/2005 could be made only before

expiry of three years which is 31/03/2008, and the notice and rejection,

both had to be communicated to the petitioner prior to this date. The

petitioner's argument was that a letter was sent three day prior to the

expiry of the said three years and that it is only a letter of intimation and

the petitioner was never sent a notice requiring the petitioner to pay in

terms of the law.

By letter dated 25/04/2008 (P5) the petitioner has set out reasons

for disagreeing with the said question and explained the petitioner's

position. Thereafter the 3rd respondent has sent a notice of assessment

dated 11/06/2008 (P6) under Se. 134( 1) of the said Act and the

petitioner states that P6 was sent seventy days after the three years

period, the time limit set out in Sec. 134(1). The petitioner has appealed

4

against this notice to the 1 st respondent under Sec. 136 of the said Act

saying the said notice is time barred (P7). At the inquiry the respondents

have stated the said notice was sent prior to the expiry of the given

three years and that the date on which it was sent is 25/03/2008 which

the petitioner states is the letter of intimation and is not a notice sent

within the given time under Sec. 134(1) and that it is a patent violation of

the mandatory provisions of Section 134(3) of the Act No. 38 of 2000.

The determination of the inquiry held by the 4th respondent is marked as

P13. The petitioner has communicated his dissatisfaction to the 1 st

respondent acting under 134( 1) (P14) for which the 4th respondent

acting for 1st respondent has given the reasons for the said

determination (P15). The petitioner states by not giving reason for the

rejection of this income tax return and not sending the notice within the

stipulated time period were rejected by the 4th respondent and that it is a

misapplication of the law and the respondents are in gross violation of

the statutory provisions and that the respondents have acted ultra vires.

The petitioner has also appealed to the Board of Review (P16).

The learned Presidents' Counsel for the petitioner cited

Samarakoon Chief Justice's judgment in Kanagaratna Vs.

Rajasunderam (1981) 1 SLR 492 and the also Bandaranayake Judge's

judgment in Somasunderam Vanniasingham Vs. Forbes and

Another (1993) 2SLR 362.

5

I

i

I

J

I

!,

The argument of the respondents were that the law does not

require to the notice of assessment to be dispatched within three years,

that it only requires the rejection of the tax return and the assessment to

be done within the time limit prescribed. They also stated that the

petitioner's appeal against the quantum of the assessment is an

admission of the fact that the assessment is valid in law. The

respondents further stated that the assessment was made before the

31 st of March 2008 and the petitioner was duly informed and that the

notice of assessment was dispatched on 11/06/2008 and an appeal was

lodged by the petitioner on 01/08/2008. Respondents stated if the

petitioner intended to take up an objection to the act of assessment on

the basis that it was out of time and thus ultra vires, the petitioner ought

to have applied for judicial review at that time in 2008 instead of

appealing against the assessment and belated if taking up the issue of

time bar in these proceedings. Respondents stated that the petitioner

has not suffered any injustice. The assessment made on 28/03/2008 is

marked as 1 R3 and the notice as 1 R2. The respondents stated since

the petitioner's appeal is pending before the Board of Review the

petitioner has not established a legal basis for the application of writ

jurisdiction in this court.

In short the main submission of the respondent was that since the

Inland Revenue Act No. 38 of 2000 has internal remedy for challenging

6

the decision of the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue the

petitioner is precluded from seeking a remedy in a writ application by

passing the remedy provided within the four corners of the said Act.

This court has to decide whether the petitioner is entitled to relief

by way of a writ. The issue relating to time bar the respondents stated

under Sec. 134(3) proviso the time bar does not apply in the instant

case.

Sec 134(3) reads thus;

(3) Where a person has furnished a return of income, the

Assessor may in making an assessment on such person under

subsection (1) or under subsection (2), either ....

(a) accept the return made by such person; or

(b) if he does not accept the return made by that person estimate

the amount of the assessable income, of such person and assess

him accordingly:

Provided that where an Assessor does not accept a return

made by any person for any year of assessment and make an

assessment or additional assessment on such person for that

year of assessment, he shall communicate to such person in

writing, his reasons for not accepting the return.

7

In the instant case the petitioner has made a self-assessment

(P3) the respondents by (P4) has informed the petitioner that the

amounts stated is not acceptable. The petitioner's argument was that P4

is not a refusal of the self-assessment but a letter of intimation but P4

was sent to the petitioner by the respondents after his assessment was

sent, the petitioner has made a reply to P4 by P5 and has also appealed

to the 1st respondent against the notice sent.

Sec. 136(1) which deals an appeals to the Commissioner General

states;

136 (1). Any person who is aggrieved by the amount 01 an

assessment made under this Act or by the amount 01 any

valuation lor the purpose 01 this Act may, within a period 01

thirty days after the date 01 the notice 01 assessment, appeal to

the Commissioner-General against such assessment or valuation:

The petitioner being dissatisfied with the determination of the

Commissioner General has made an appeal to the Board of Review

under Sec. 138(1).

8

The petitioner after receiving P4 and P6 had appeal to the 1 st

respondent and only after the 1 st respondent's determination was given

has made this application stating the assessment is time barred under

Sec. 134(5).

The proviso to Sec. 134(5);

Provided, that nothing in this subsection shall apply to the

assessment of income tax payable by any person in respect of any

year of assessment, consequent to the receipt by such person, of

any arrears relating to the profits from employment of that

person for that year of assessmen ti

Provided further that, where in the opinion of the Assessor,

any fraud, evasion or willful default has been committed by, or

on behalf of, any person, in relation to any income tax, payable by

such person for any year of assessment, it shall be lawful for the

Assessor to make an assessment or an additional assessment on

such person at any time after the end of that year of assessment

Therefore the petitioner can not say that P4 is not a refusal or an

amendment but a letter of intimation P4 at the beginning itself states "I

refer to the Income Tax return furnished for the above year of

assessment and the Subsequent Audit carried out by the officers of

9

Inland Revenue from the documents and records submitted to the

Department and hereby inform you that the Revenue Tax return has not

been accepted due to the following reasons". After stating the reason on

page 3 the amendments are stated. The petitioner after replying to this

and appealing to the 1 st respondent has come to this counsel seeking

for a writ for which the petitioner is not entitled to under the said Act.

In Kanagaratna Vs. Rajasunderam it has been held "the

availability of an alternative remedy does not prevent a court from

issuing a writ of Prohibition in cases of excess or absence of jurisdiction

which is not applicable to the instant case. The law is very clear in this

case and one can not say there is an excess or an absence of

jurisdiction.

In Somasunderam Vanniasingham Vs. Forbes and Another it

is stated "A party to an arbitrator award under the Industrial Disputes Act

is not required to exhaust other available remedies before he could

challenge illegalities and errors on the face of the record by an

application for a writ of Certiorari."

10

There is no illegality or error on the fact of the record in the instant

case. Both these judgments can not be applied to the instant

application. Here the law is clearly stated and the petitioner accepting

P4 has appealed to the 1 st respondent and after the 1 st respondent's

determination has taken a belated defense of time barr the petitioner

should have applied for judicial review at that time instead of appealing

against the assessment without belated if taking up the issue of the time

bar of the assessment.

The petitioner's appeal is presently pending before the Board of

Review and the petitioner did not establish a legal basis for the

invocation of writ jurisdiction of this court.

For the afore stated reasons I refuse the application of the

petitioners with costs fixed at Rs. 50,000/=.

~

JUDGE~~!F APPEAL.

11