==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A. 7711997 (F) D.C. Horana 4221/P

Withanage Pemadasa of Gungamuwa, Bandaragama.

PLAINTIFF

Vs.

1 A. P. K. Somawathie 2. Withanage Punyadasa 3. s. Kumari Withanage 4. G. Hemasiri Wickramasinghe all of Gungamuwa, Bandaragama.

DEFENDANTS

AND

3. S. Kumari Withanage (Deceased)

4. G. Hemasiri Wickramasinghe all of Gungamuwa, Bandaragama

DEFENDANTS-APPELLANTS

Vs.

Withanage Pemadasa of Gungamuwa, Bandaragama.

PLAINTIFF -RESPONDENT

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

Anil Gooneratne J.

1 A P. K. Somawathie 5. Withanage Punyadasa

DEFENDANTS-RESPONDNETS

AND NOW

Withanage Pemadasa of Gungamuwa, Bandaragama.

PLAINTIFF-RESPONDENT -PETITIONER

Vs.

5. G. Hemasiri Wickramasinghe of Gungamuwa, Bandaragama

4th DEFENDANT -APPELLANT-RESPONDENT

P. Kaushalya Wickremasinghe of No. 49A, Gungamuwa, Bandaragama.

RESPONDENT

D.M. Dissanayake for the 3rd & 4th Defendant-Appellants

Bimal Rajapakse for the Plaintiff-Respondent-Petitioner

2

3

ARGUED ON; 14.10.2011

DECIDED ON: 16.12.2011

GOONERATNE J.

This was a partition suit filed in the District Court of Horana.

Plaintiff was one Vithanage Pemadasa. Land sought to be partitioned is

described in the schedule to the plaint called Millagahawatte lots 5 & 6 in

extent of 4 acres and 3 roods. At the trial parties have admitted paragraphs 1

- 6 of the plaint. Title has been traced to an earlier partition decree in D.C.

Kalutara Case No. 5411. By the said partition decree the persons named in

paragraph 2 of the plaint became entitled to the land. Paragraphs 3 - 6

indicates the several transfer deeds executed in favour of Methias Perera

who was a co-owner referred to in paragraph 2 of the plaint and transferors

are also persons named therein. These facts are not disputed. The matter that

concerned the original court was on the matters raised in issue No 2. i.e

whether the said Methias Perera died intestate leaving his 4 children as

successors to his inheritance. (paragraph 7 of plaint). Issue No.2 suggested

at the trail is to the effect that the said Methias Perera had another son by the

k t ! t I

f

r ! f

4

name of Vithanage Piyadasa (in addition to those names in paragraph 7 of

the plaint) This is the only issue to be considered even in this appeal, filed

by the 3rd & 4th Defendant-Appellants. Consequentially issue Nos. 3 & 4

would be important to the said Appellant since they claim to derive title by

deed No. 273 of 19.2.1986.

At the hearing before this court learned counsel on either side

referred to certain items of evidence led at the trial to prove or disprove

whether the said Methias Perera had 4 or 5 children to succeed to his

inheritance. Learned District Judge held in favour of the Plaintiff-

Respondent, who would have had the opportunity to cage the witnesses, hear

evidence, watch the reactions and actions of witnesses, demeanor and foam

an opinion of each of the parties to the case. The Appellate Court cannot

express a view on the above matters and has to rely on the trial Judge in that

respect. At this point note must also be taken of the fact that on Plaintiff s

defaulted this case and had been dismissed in the District Court, but parties

seem to have agreed to reinstate the case.

The following points were urged before this court by learned

Counsel for Plaintiff-Respondent and some of which are contained in the

written submissions filed in both courts.

5

(a) The 3rd & 4th Defendant rely and claim rights from one linadasa alleging that he

was a son of Mathias Perera. Plaintiff urge that the said linadasa was not a son of

Methias Perera but was brought up and educated from childhood by Methias

Perera and his wife.

(b) By document PI - Methias Perera was either the guardian or father of Piyadasa.

Following to be noted from PI. (Piyadasa was also known as linadasa)

(i) linadasa's wasagama begins with the letter 'K' and Methias' wasagama IS

Vithanage.

(ii) linadasa does not bear Methias Perera's surname which is 'Perera'

(iii) By PI linadasa's age is 7 years at the time of admission to school. Guardian

did not know the date of birth of linadasa.

(iv) On document marked P13 the Birth Certificate of linadasa the following to be

noted. (produced at the trial by Respondents)

1. P13 corroborates the age at 7 years appearing in PI.

2. P13 indicates linadasa's mother was Laisahamy who was not married to

linadasa's father.

3. 3 rd Defendant does not contest the fact that PI & P 13 refer to her father.

(c) Plaintiff and 3rd Defendant do not deny that linadasa was also known as

Piyadasa.

(d) Documents confronted by Plaintiff as submitted to him by the Defendant are not

official records of birth.

(e) Affidavit 3D6 shown to Plaintiff, to be the signature of Plaintiffs mother Alpi

Nona. Plaintiff denied the signature in 3D6 or denies Alpi Nona's signature. Alpi

Nona was dead during proceedings in the District Court. Affidavit invalid,

Buddhist cannot be sworn.

(f) Documents 3V3, 3V4, 3V5 & 3V8 are self-serving documents which could be

produced by any interested party.

6

The Plaintiff-Respondents also comments on the 3 rd Defendant

Witness's evidence at the trial and refer to same in a critical manner

suggestive of the fact that court cannot act upon such unreliable evidence.

Witness Julias Perera who came to support the 3rd Defendant stated Methias

Perera had 7 children. The 3rd Defendant's version is that he had 5 children.

The mother of the 3rd Defendant gave evidence and admitted Piyadasa was

born on 8.11.1923. This date is the same given in Birth Certificate P13,

where Piyadasa's father in P13 is unknown and mother C. Laisahamy was

not married. In cross-examination that witness testified and admitted:

(i) She came to know her husband Piyadasa for the first time in 1958 and that she

knew nothing about Piyadasa prior to 1958 (page 13 of her evidence)

(ii) At the time she married Piyadasa he was already in the police force (page 14

of her evidence)

(iii) The birth certificate has to be produced before a person joins the police force

(iv) That no attempt was made to obtain Piyadasa's birth certificate from his

personal file (P 15 of her evidence)

(v) Her daughter will derive benefits if it is claimed that her husband was a son of

Methias.

(vi) She has come forward to give evidence in order to enable her daughter to

obtain a share (page 16)

(vii) That all she know about Piyadasa's life before marriage is based on heresay

(page 17)

7

The Appellants contends as follows (to support that Piyadasa was a

son of Methias Perera)

(1) Relies on documents produced 3Vl - 3V8. 3Vl being a deed it is stated in the

deed "®D ®@cs5 @)(l') m(l') 8(l') ~ e')0»6)@cs5 @®O)(l')cl @G@6o)@C5JeD 00 COl;®(l')~ .....

(3V2 not available in the brief)

(2) Marriage Certificate 3V3 of Piyadasa - Father Methias Perera

(3) 3V4 - Death notice of Methias Perera, wife Alpi Nona. Reference to Piyadasa as

eldest son (Police).

( 4) 3 V 5 wedding card of Piyadasa refer to Methias Perera as father.

In the written submissions filed in the lower court the Appellant has

been critical of Plaintiff s witness who produced document PIa Principal of

a school. I have considered the evidence reflected in those proceedings, and

the evidence of the Plaintiff.

There is no doubt as observed by the learned District Judge, if

Piyadasa was to get rights as an intestate heir, Piyadasa should be a

legitimate child of Methias Perera or legally adopted. As such the burden is

on the Appellant and that burden has not been discharged according to

Section 1011103 of the Evidence Ordinance. However trial Judge points out

• 8

that Piyadasa was brought up by Methias Perera, since Methias' sons were

born after 6 years of marriage. This explanation of the trial Judge is in order

or acceptable, as he was brought up as one of his own. (Folio 232 of

judgment). That does not mean legitimacy is proved. I am very much

inclined to agree with the reasoning of the learned District Judge. The

following extract from the judgment to be noted and I have no hesitation in

endorsing same.

@~@)Q)es5)es5 ~&55@)fiS)J ~rn~l@f41@ E)e:»ei)@)coes5 @~~~ ~6~e:>es5c) @)ei)J ~rn~)~f41@e:>

ei)~) e:>ID) CS)~8>®C) f41@e:>~~@)® ~@)coJCS)co&55 ®rn @Q» CS)e» ~6~e:>es5c) a®rm&55

The documents produced by the 3rd Defendant marked 3V3,

3V4, 3V5, 3V6 & 3V7 cannot be considered to arrive at a decision that 3rd

Defendant father's, father (grand father) was Methias Perera. In these

f I ! ! III

I

9 •

circumstances Birth Certificate PI3 would explain very many disputed facts

and PI3 will shut out the above documents submitted by the 3rd Defendant

and confirm the version of the Plaintiff-Respondent.

In all the above circumstances I affirm the judgment of the

District Court. Appeal dismissed without costs.

~0&~~-Pr~ YJ:OFT~EAL