==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. 910/98 (F) D.C. Walasmulla Case No: 555/P

Balage Alpina Nawanaliya, Keerama.

Complainant Appellant Vs. P.B. Gimara Kalaotuwawa, Weedikanda, Walasmulla.

Defendant Respondent

C.A. 910/98 (F) D.C. Walasmulla Case No: 555/P

BEFORE K.T. Chitrasiri, J.

COUNSEL : P.K. Prince Perera with Panchadaran and S.

ARGUED&

DECIDED ON

K.T. Chitrasiri, J.

Amarasekara for the 20th Defendant-Appellant

Buddhika Gamage for the Plaintiff-Respondent.

: 17.05.2013

Both Counsel made submissions in support of their respective cases. At the

outset learned Counsel for the Appellant submitted to Court that the appeal

of the 20th Defendant-Appellant is only in respect of the 30 bread fruit trees

referred to in the surveyor's report marked X1 even though different reliefs

including to set aside the judgment had been prayed for in the petition of

appeal. Therefore, on the application of the Counsel for the appellant this

Court restrict the appeal to the claim made by the 20th Defendant-Appellant

as to the 20 bread fruit trees.

2

Counsel for the Appellant at this stage brings to the notice of Court

that the learned District Judge has given soil rights even to the 20th

Defendant-Appellant. It was decided so, on the basis of the evidence given

by the Plaintiff in accordance with her pedigree. Neither the 20th Defendant

nor her husband, the 23rd Defendant has cross examined the Plaintiff on

those matters relating to the pedigree. The 20th or 23rd defendants were

unable to contradict the pedigree of the Plaintiff. Therefore it is clear that

the share allocation by the learned District Judge is correct. Against this

background only, the learned Counsel for the Appellant made submissions

to restrict the appeal to the claim made over the 30 bread fruit trees.

It must be noted that no decision had been made to give the said 30

bread fruit trees or its value to a particular party. Hence, the entitlement of

those trees would be, in proportion to the share allocation of the land. In

deciding so learned District Judge has considered the claim put forward by

the 20th Defendant-Appellant as well.

Husband of the 20th Defendant, who is the 23rd Defendant, has given

evidence in this case claiming those 30 trees. The manner in which the

learned District Judge has considered his evidence is found at pages 4, 5

and 6 in the impugned judgment. He has considered the evidence of

3

Upaneris also and had stated that those trees could not have been planted

by the 20th Defendant or the 23 rct Defendant. The Plaintiff also has stated

that the trees claimed by the 20th defendant was not planted by a particular

person but those came into existence through the roots of the other bread

fruit trees. Furthermore, learned District Judge has stated that the 20th

Defendant-Appellant has not claimed these trees before the surveyor when

he went to survey the land pursuant to the commission issued by Court.

Learned Judge also has stated that even the 23rct Defendant who is the

husband of the 20th Defendant had not claimed these trees before the

surveyor.

I do not see any wrong in the aforesaid reasoning assigned by the

learned District Judge when he decided to reject the claim of the 20th

Defendant-Appellant in respect of the 30 bread fruit trees. Therefore I am

not inclined to interfere with the judgment of the learned District Judge.

For the aforesaid reasons this appeal is dismissed with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

NRI-