==== BLOCKS ==== 

In the Court of Appeal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

Lanka

CA 86/2006

HCI Ampara/936/05

Before: W.L.R. Silva J and

D.S.C. Lecamwasam J

In the matter of an appeal under and in terms of Section 331 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act No. 15 of 1979.

Mohamed Mustapah Faiz

Accused-Appellant

Vs.

Hon. Attorney-General

Respondent

Counsel: Dr. Ranjith Fernando for the Accused Appellant

Kapila Waidyaratne DSG for the Attorney General

Argued on: 23/08/2011

Decided on: 15/1112011

D.S.C. Lecamwasam J.

The accused- appellant was a teacher attached to the school where

the virtual complainant i.e. the victim, was a student of 11 years of age. On

the day of the alleged incident the accused had requested the victim to

fetch some cool water from a nearby house which request the victim

refused as he has an injured toe. Upon which, the accused had propelled

the victim into one of the class rooms and had struck the victim a few

times on the legs with a cricket bat and in addition had slapped the

victim's face. Thereafter upon making a complaint to police, the boy was

produced before a medical officer and the accused was arrested. With this

background the accused was indicted before the High Court of Ampara,

under section 308(b) (2) of the Penal Code (It ought to have been section

308A (2)) for causing cruelty to children. After trial, he was convicted and

sentenced to 2 Y2 years Rigorous Imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 1000/= in

default 6 months Rigorous Imprisonment and ordered to pay Rs. 10,000/=

as compensation in default 2 years imprisonment. Being aggrieved by the

said conviction and sentence the appellant has preferred this appeal.

Counsel for the accused appellant at the very outset of the argument

submitted to court that he is not contesting the conviction but sought some

relief regarding the sentence and pleaded in mitigation. As the learned

counsel confined his appeal only to the sentence, I do not wish to elaborate

on the other material facts.

Section 308A (1) of the Penal Code states thus;

...,

"Whoever, having the custody, charge or care of any person under

eighteen years of age, wilfully assaults, ( emphasis added) ill- treats,

neglects or abandons such person .... "

"Wilful" connotes a deliberate intention on the part of the doer as opposed

to an inadvertent act. Considering the facts that led to this incident, it is

apparent that this is not the result of a pre meditated or preplanned act. It

was more a sudden reaction and in the absence of any evidence of personal

animosity or a vendetta the act is devoid of any venom or vengeance.

Whether asking the child to bring a bottle of cool water from a

neighbouring house is permissible or not is not the point of argument in

this instance. Whether it is permissible or otherwise, as the child had not

complied with the request the appellant had reacted in the manner as

unfolded in evidence. His manner of approaching the situation could be

viewed as excessive. However as evident from the whole episode it was a

spontaneous reaction without any malice, ill-will, hatred or venom, which

if been present would have led to the inference of such act being "wilful".

Nevertheless this ought not to be construed as a condoning of cruelty in

the guise of discipline. Discipline is necessary in any education system and

moreover it is a prerogative of a teacher to discipline his students. Cruelty

is intentional and malicious. But discipline while being intentional is

devoid of malice. It is an endeavour to instill obedience and acceptance of

authority. The random isolated act of the teacher in this case is in my

opinion a case of "severe discipline" which may amount to hurt but not to

the more aggravated act of cruelty.

Even though the trial judge has alluded to the contradictions in his

judgment I observe that he has not considered those contradictions in their

correct perspective. If he had done so, it would have given rise to a

deliberation as to whether the act complained of is an act coming within

the purview of 'hurt' or 'cruelty'.

Since the learned counsel for the appellant does not contest the

conviction, I do not wish to embark on a voyage of discovery as to the thin

line of demarcation between hurt and cruelty on one hand and discipline

and cruelty on the other at this stage.

However under the circumstances, in the absence of any criminal

intention on the part of the accused- appellant I find a term of

imprisonment to be obnoxious to justice. After all, "Justice cannot be for

one side alone, but must be for both" as espoused by Eleanor Roosevelt.

The accused- appellant is a public servant and should not be deprived of

his employment due to a 'Solitary incident' that had taken place without

any premeditation and moreover because there is an absence of any

evidence of prior similar behaviour. Therefore even though the appellant

does not contest the conviction, I feel that this is a fit and proper situation

for clemency to be bestowed upon the appellant. From the mouth of

Abraham Lincoln "I have found that mercy bears richer fruits than strict

justice" especially when such strictness vitiates the very spirit of justice.

Hence even though Section 308A (2) carries a mandatory jail term for the

reasons enumerated I am of the belief that this is an occasion where this

court should exercise its discretion in favour of the accused. Hence

fortified by the decision of the judgment of His Lordship Justice P. A.

Ratnayake in SC 03/ 2008 I reduce the term of imprisonment from 2 ~

years to two (2) years and suspend the same for a period of five (5) years

and I further order the fine of Rs.l 000/= to be treated as state cost of Rs.

11

, .

1000/=. This order would enable the appellant to avail himself of the

concessions conferred by Section ~8rof Code of Criminal Procedure

Act No. 15 of 1979 as Amended by Act No.47 of 1999. ~~ .. Judge of the Court of Appeal

W.L.R. Silva J I agree.

Judg