==== BLOCKS ==== 

228-230/2005

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an appeal under

Section 331 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure Act No. 15 of 1979 as

Amended.

C.A. Case No:-228-230/200S

H.C.Colombo Case No:1870/2004

1. E.M.Gamini Edirisuriya

2. M.A.D. Shantha Kumara Perera

3. A.M.Ariyapala

Accused-Appella nts

v.

Han. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

Respondent

Before:- H.N.J.Perera, J &

P.W.D.C.Jayathiiake, J.

Counsel:-Shanaka Ranasinghe P.e. with Suraj Rajapakshe and

Chanaka Ratnayaka for the pt & 3rd Accused-Appellants

,

~

~r,t II

i!r

!

ift

Prashanthalal de Alwis P.e. for the 2nd accused-Appellant

Rohantha Abeysuriya D.S.G. for the Respondent

Argued On:-23.10.2014

Written Submissions:-11.12.2014

Decided On:-1B.06.2015

H.N.J.Perera, J.

The accused-appellants were indicted before the High Court of

Colombo for having committed an offence punishable under section

30B A (2) of the Penal Code read with section 32 of the Penal Code.

After trial all three accused-appellants were convicted and sentenced

to seven years rigorous imprisonment. Aggrieved by the said

conviction and sentence the accused-appellants had preferred this

appeal to this court.

Section 30BA is as follows:-

(l)Whoever, having the custody of, charge or care of any person

under eighteen years of age, wilfully assaults, ill-treats,

neglects, or abandons such person or causes or procures such

person to be assaulted, ill-treated, neglected, or abandoned in

a manner likely to cause him suffering or injury to health

(including injury to, or loss of sight or hearing, or limb or organ

of the body or any mental derangement), commits the offence

of cruelty to children."

For section 30BA to apply the accused should have the custody,

charge or care of the complainant. Section 30BA should be given a

strict interpretation which means that it should be interpreted such a

way that it would not apply to a person who does not have the

custody, charge or care. It is the contention of the Counsel for the

accused-appellants that the learned trial Judge has failed to consider

this important aspect in this case.

In this case the complainant has stated that the pt accused-appellant

called him when he was at the swimming pool. It is common ground

that the complainant was wearing a black trouser at that time. It was

in these circumstances that the pt accused-appellant called the

complainant. The complainant went up to the pt accused-appellant

who was the teacher in charge of discipline of the school at that

time. It is the position of the complainant that when he went up to

the pt accused-appellant, the pt accused-appellant held the

complainant by his shirt. The complainant states that he found it

difficult to breath and he threw his hand away. The complainant in

his evidence has clearly stated that the pt accused-appellant thought

that the complainant was trying to hit the pt accused-appellant. It is

very pertinent to note that at this stage the pt accused-appellant is

alleged to have said that {{during the past 27 years no one has tried

to do this to me. {{

The 2nd & 3rd accused-appellants came to the scene after the initial

assault. Major assault which affected the complainant's ear was

caused by the pt accused-appellant. The 2nd & 3rd accused-appellants

too have been charged for assaulting the complainant under section

32 of the Penal Code. It is very clear from the evidence led in this

case that the pt accused-appellant mistakenly believed that the

complainant tried to assault him.

For section 308A to apply the 1st accused-appellant should act

wilfully. It is the contention of the learned Counsel for the accused-

appellants that the learned High Court Judge has failed to consider

this important aspect of the case.On a perusal of the evidence in this

case it is clearly seen that the said incident has taken place quite

suddenly. It was not a pre-planned attack on the complainant. It is

manifestly clear that the pt accused-appellant has acted on the spur

of the moment without really thinking or without any intention of

causing hurt to the complainant.

In Black's Law Dictionary the term "wilfull" is defined as "proceeding

from a conscious motion of will; voluntary; knowingly; deliberate,

intending the result which actually comes to pass; designed;

intentional; purposeful; not accidental or involuntarily.

The learned D.S.G. for the Respondent conceded that the learned

trial Judge in his order has not referred to these important factors-

"willfull" and "common intention" -- and therefore he cannot support

the judgment.

In L.C.Fernando V. Republic of Sri Lanka 1979 (2) N.L.R 313 at 374,

Wijesu ndera, J. held that:-

"It is a basic principle of the criminal law of our land, that a re-trial is

to be ordered only, if it appears to the court that the interests of

justice so required."

In this case the offence was committed in 2004 about 11 years ago

and the conviction was in 2005 about ten years back. In a long line of

case law authorities, our courts have consistently refused to exercise

the discretion to order a re-trial where time duration is substantial.

In Peter Singho V. Werapitiya 55 N.L.R157, Gratien, J. refused to

consider a retrial where time duration was over four years.

In Queen V. Jayasinghe 69 N.L.R 314, Sansoni, J. refused to order re-

trial where the time duration was over three years.

Shoni 19th Edition VOL V1 page 4133 states:-

"An order of re-trial of a criminal case is made in exceptional cases

and not unless the Appellate Court is satisfied that the court trying

the proceeding had no jurisdiction to try it or that trial was vitiated

by serious illegalities or irregularities proceedings and on that

account in substance there had been no real trial or that the

prosecutor or an accused was, for reasons over which he had no

control prevented from leading or tendering evidence material to the

charge and in the interest of justice, Appellate Court deems it

appropriate having regard to the circumstances of the case, that the

accused should be put on his trial again, an order of re-trial wipes out

from the record the earlier proceedings and exposes the person

accused to another trial. In addition to this, a re-trial should not be

ordered when the court finds that it would be superfluous for the

reason that the evidence relied on by the prosecution will never be

able to prove the charges beyond reasonable doubt and the like

especially when the court is of the opinion that the prosecution will

be, put at an advantage by allowing them to provide the gaps or

what is wanting that resulted due to their own lapses."

Under the circumstances I hold that this is not a fit and proper case

to order re-trial.For the foregoing reasons, I allow the appeal and set

aside the conviction and sentence dated 13.09.2005 and acquit the

accused-appellants.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C.Jayathilake,J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL