==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COUT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A. Appeal No.219/2007 H.C.Colombo No.134/00

Kodithuwakku Arachchilage Ariyadasa No:77, Pokunugoda Road, Mulleriyawa North, Angoda.

Appellant Vs. The Hon. Attorney General Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

C.A.Appeal No.219/2007 H.C.Colombo No.134/00

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

Sisira J. de Abrew, J. &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J.

Janaka Amerasinghe with Nihara Randeniya for the Prince

for the Accused-Appellant.

Dappula de Livera DSG for A/G.

12.11.2013

Sisira T. de Abrew, T

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted for committing grave

sexual abuse on a girl named Rani Perera who is under 16 years of age and was

sentenced to a term of 12 years rigorous imprisonment, to pay a fine of

Rs.10,OOO/ - carrying a default sentence of six months imprisonment and to pay a

sum of Rs.50,OOO/ - as compensation to the victim carrying a default sentence of

2 years rigorous imprisonment.

Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence the accused-

appellant has appealed to this Court. According to the facts of this case the

t I

\

f I ! I l

accused-appellant has inserted his erected penis to the anus of the victim girl.

At the time of the incident the victim was 11 years old.

Learned Counsel for the accused-appellant after arguing the case for two

days makes an application to withdraw the appeal. The application for the

withdrawal of the appeal is allowed.

Learned Counsel makes an application to reduce the sentence and back

date the sentence from the date of the conviction.

On the question of the sentence both Counsel were heard. We have gone

through the facts of this case and have considered the submissions of both

parties. We are of the opinion that term of 12 years rigorous imprisonment is

reasonable. But we are of the opinion that the compensation ordered by the

learned trial Judge is inadequate. We set aside the compensation of Rs.50,OOOj-

ordered by the learned trial Judge and order the accused-appellant to pay sum of

Rs.100,OOOj - carrying a default sentences of 2 years rigorous imprisonment.

We direct the Prison Authorities to implement the sentence form the date

of conviction (05.04.2007). The appeal of the accused-appellant is dismissed.

2

I,iI

II

!f,

iI

,

1 I

I

I

I

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C.Tayathilake, T.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

KLP/-

3

i f

\r!

~ \! I ,

r

f1I

~

t Ii f t !l