==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI

LANKA

C.A. No.60/2009 Velayuthan Ravi

2, Doloswatte, Nivitigala

Accused Appellant H .C.Ratnapura 107/2003

' vs

Han. Attorney General

Respondent

Before Sisira De A brew J. Sunil Rajapakse J.,

Counsel

Argued on:

Decided on:

Sunil Rajapakse J ..

Ms Indika Mallawarachchi for the Accused Appellant Mr. Kapila Waidyaratne, D.S.G., for the Respondent

09th November 2012

osth February 2013

The Accused Appellant was charged under Section 296 of the Penal Code for committing

the offence of murder. The trial Judge, after hearing the evidence of the prosecution and

defence convicted the Accused Appellant, Velauthan Ravi for the said offence and sentenced

him to death. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and sentence the accused has appealed to

this Court.

The death of Mayalaghu Devaraj occurred due to an incident that took place on the

night of sth February 1994 at the Accused Appellant's line room No.6 in Doloswatte Estate. At

the trial prosecution led the evidence of four witnesses and the accused Appellant and his wife

' I

! i ' I

2

gave evidence on behalf of the defence. The Accused Appellant stood trial without jury in the

High Court of Ratnapura.

The facts of this case is briefly summarized as follows:

Deceased Mayalaghu Devaraj and his father Mayalaghu lived in the 3ro line room in

Doloswatta Estate and the Accused Appellant lived in the line No. 6 of the same estate. The

distance between the two line room was only 200 meters. Father of the deceased Mayalaghu,

in his evidence, said that he heard someone scolding him using filthy language and he

identified the said voice as that of Ravi ( the Accused-Appellant) since he knew the Appellant

from his childhood. Therefore he went to the Appellant's house with his son to inquire as to

why Ravi has uttered such bad words to him. Heated argument had taken place between

Mayalaghu, Devaraj and the accused appellant. Further, he claimed that the accused appellant

stabbed his son Devaraj, who was walking behind him.

Mayalaghu Devaraj, the deceased had succumbed to his injury. The accused appellant

had escaped from the place immediately with the knife. They could not catch him. Perumal

testified for the prosecution and stated that the deceased came to his house after the incident

and fell on the ground saying that he was stabbed. He further said that he never witnessed the

stabbing.

The Accused Appellant has not denied the incident. In his evidence he has said that he

was having dinner when the deceased and his father came to his house to assault him .. He

then took a knife which was under the table. He stated that Devaraj forcibly took him out of the

house and was assaulted by Devaraj Mayalaghu and some other people. Then the accused

Appellant brandished the knife to defend himself. In his evidence the Accused Appellant stated

that he was unaware of the injury caused to the accused, however, he did not deny the fact

that Devaraj had died due to stabbing. Therefore, there is no dispute over that the deceased

3

died due to stabbing. The Accused Appellant claimed that this stabbing was as a result of

sudden fear and due to counter attack.

In this case the accused Appellant's main contention was that he acted in self defence of

his person when he was being assaulted by the deceased, deceased's father and some other

people. Further, he has said that he had no intention of causing more harm than necessary.

The Learned Counsel for the Appellant contended that the learned Judge had not considered

the defence of right of private defence.

After analyzing the prosecution and the defence evidence court holds that the sole eye

witness Mayalaghu is a trustworthy witness. No material contradictions or omissions were

marked by the accused Appellant at the trial.

In this regard I would like to cite following authorities.

In Sunil vs Attorney-General - 99 S.L.R 191 "the court observed solitary witness can be

acted upon, provided that he is wholly reliable.

Further Madkami Baja vs The State (1996) C.V.L.J 433 (Law of Crimes, P.M. Bakshi -

Volume 2, page 57) It was held that the evidence of a solitary witness in a murder can be

acted upon, only if it was clear, cogent, trustworthy and above reproach.

The testimony of Mayalaghu states that the accused had stabbed the deceased on his

hack closer to the backbone. Also the Medical evidence and the post mortem report revealed

that the stabbing took place from behind the deceased, causing a fatal injury to his backbone.

Therefore the testimony of Mayalaghu and the medical observation have proved the fact that

the deceased had been followed and stabbed by the Accused Appellant when he was moving

from Appellant's house. Even though the accused claimed that this Injury might have occurred

while he was wagging the knife as self defence, the Court holds after observing the pattern of

injury tha~ such injury could not have taken place by mere wagging of a knife. . According to

4 lf

the medical evidence the injury on the back of the chest is deep. Just wagging a knife can't

cause such a deep injury. Further according to the medical evidence the injury which caused

by stabbing behind the chest has been identified as a deep injury, it is understood that a mere

wagging of a knife cannot be a cause of such a deep injury ..

Thus it is clearly evident that the stabbing had taken place from the back of the victim

while he was moving away. The Accused Appellant had stabbed the deceased with a knife

which stuck on a vulnerable part of deceased's body resulting his death. The court holds that

the accused stabbed the deceased with the intention to kill him. After considering the evidence

of Malayaghu, nature of the injury and the type of the weapon, court holds that the accused

acted with the intention of killing the deceased. When I consider all these matters I am of the

opinion that the Accused Appellant is not entitled to the benefit of right of self defence.

Accused Appellant's second contention is that he acted upon grave and sudden

provocation due to a heated argument. But at the trial the Accused Appellant had not taken up

this defence. Therefore, in terms of Section 105 of the Evidence Ordinance, the Appellant has

failed to prove sudden provocation.

Further, the court holds that there is no sufficient evidence to prove that the victim or

the father of the victim had caused sudden provocation to the Accused Appellant.

Therefore, the accused appellant is not entitled to receive the said exception of sudden

provocation.

Furthermore, after analyzing the defence evidence there are inconsistencies in evidence

which was given by the accused and the wife of the accused appellant. The learned trial Judge

has correctly decided to reject defence evidence.

5

The Learned Counsel for the Appellant contended that the death of Malalaghu Devaraj

had occurred due to a sudden fight. But at the trial stage the defence had not pointed out this

position. The prosecution evidence revealed at the time of the incident that the deceased was

unarmed and did not cause any injury to the Appellant. The Appellant had inflicted fatal blow

on the deceased. The sole witness Malayaghu and the medical evidence supported this position.

The sole eye witness's evidence and the medical evidence prove that the Appellant has

.stabbed the unarmed deceased near his backbone from behind.

In the case of Ahmad Sherair - A.I.R.193, 1936 L.A.H 513 'where the deceased was

unarmed and did not cause any injury to Appellant, the appellant following a sudden quarrel

had inflicted fatal blows to the deceased, it was held exception of sudden fight did not apply.

In the case of Amaranth Singh A.I.R 1928 O.U.D 282, it was held "If two men were

fighting and one of them unarmed while the other use a deadly weapon. The one who uses

such a weapon must be held to have taken an undue advantage and not entitled to the benefit

of this exception. "

Therefore the exception of a sudden fight does not apply to the accused. In the

circumstance, I don't agree with the submissions of the Counsel for the Appellant. The Accused

Appellant has failed to prove the defence of self defence, grave and sudden provocation and

sudden fight.

Hence, the Accused Appellant is not entitled to these exceptions.

For the aforesaid reason I am of the view that the defence had not succeeded in raising

a reasonable doubt in the prosecution case. The Court holds that the trial Judge has carefully

and correctly evaluated the evidence of prosecution and defence .There is no reason to

interfere with the trial Judge's findings. Therefore we affirm the conviction and sentence

imposed by the learned High Court Judge.

6

Appeal is dismissed ..

Judge of the Court of Appeal