==== BLOCKS ==== 

•

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA (PHC) APN 38/2012

HC Ratnapura RA 11/2010

MC Ratnapura 21487

D S Jayawardena,

271, Makumbura,

Pannipi tiya

K K Nishantha,

Umangedara,

Ellagawa

Responden t -Petitioner-Petitioners.

Vs.

L Karunaratna, Kuttikanda, Dumbara, Manana

Petitioner-Responden t-Respondent

G A Gunawardena, 5th Mile Post, North Karandana, Karandana

In tervenien t -Respondent-Respondent Respondents.

iI

i

fIIft

ff rif I

Jf t .,i ! & I r

I I

Before : A.W.A. Salam, J.

Sunil Rajapaksha, J.

Couose1 : Kumar Dunusingha for the Respondent-Petitioner-Petitioners and I M Wijebandara for the Petitioner-Respondent-

~~ Respondent. .

Argued on: 21.10.2013

Decided on : 07.03.2014

A W A Salam, J

This is a revision application filed by the 18t and 2nd

respondent-petitioner-petitioners (hereinafter referred to as the

"petitioners") to revise and set aside the judgment of the learned

High Court Judge dated 28 February 2012. The learned High

Court Judge entered the said judgment, after the petitioners

were heard in support of a revision application challenging the

validity of an order made by the learned Magistrate exercising

the jurisdiction as a Judge of the Primary Court under Section

69 of the Primary Court Procedure Act No 44/ 1979.

The background to the revision application is that the 18t

respondent-respondent-respondent (hereinafter referred to as

the "respondent") filed an application in the Magistrate's Court

under part VII of the Primary Court Procedure Act, complaining

of an obstruction of a roadway which he claimed as being

entitled to use, by reason of his having previously enjoyed the

right to use the same for nearly 50 years. He alleged that the

roadway was obstructed by the petitioners denying him of the

use of the said road. The learned Magistrate having inquired

into the dispute held that the respondent and the intervenient-

respondent-respondent are entitled to use the roadway which

CA PHC APN 38/2012 HC RATNAPURA RA 11/2010 JUDGMENT 07.03.2014

f

f: t [Ii

had been obstructed by the petitioners by erecting a barbed

wire fence. - Against the order/determination of the learned

Magl~trate the petitioners invoked the revisionary jurisdiction of

the Provincial High COYrt to challenge its validity. The learned

High Court Judge by his judgment dated 28 February 2012

held inter alia that the revision application filed by the

petitioners is not consistent with the rules 3 of the Supreme

Court as the purported affidavit annexed to the petition to

invoke the revisionary jurisdiction of that court was patently

defective in that there was no proper jurat. The purported

affidavit annexed to the petition had neither been affinned nor

has it been sworn to by the deponent. The learned High Court

Judge in his judgment under consideration cautiously analysed

the case laws relating to the defect in the affidavit and came to

the conclusion that the said defect is incurable and therefore no

purpose would be served by returning the affidavit for due

compliance of the law. In the circumstances, he dismissed the

revision application in the first instance. The respondent had

submitted before the learned High Court Judg~ that the defect

is curable and he ought to have returned the affidavit or called

upon the respondents to regularise the affidavit by inserting the

correct jurat according to law. I am not inclined to accept this

position of the respondent as the dismissal of the revision

application by the learned High Court Judge in the first

instance due to the defect in the affidavit referred to above, was

no obstacle in the way of the petitioners to have filed a

subsequent revision application, if they were so interested, to

challenge the impugned order/determination of the learned

Magistrate. Therefore, even if the learned High Court Judge has

not given an opportunity to the petitioners to cure the defect in

CA PHC APN 38/2012 HC RATNAPURA RA 11/2010 JUDGMENT 07.03.2014

j

1 j i i l j i I I

the affidavit, yet they were not prejudiced by the refusal to issue

notice on the revision application as they could have very well

filed ,a subsequent application.

In any event, the petitiOners have failed to aver in the revision

application filed in this Court, as to why they did not prefer an

appeal against the judgment of the learned High Court Judge.

Further, they have not pleaded any exceptional circumstances

acceptable to this Court against the impugned judgment of the

learned High Court Judge to invoke the extraordinary

revisionary jurisdiction of this Court.

In the circumstances I see no reason to interfere with the

judgment that is impugned in this application. Accordingly, the

revision application filed by the petitioners is dismissed subject

to costs.

Sunil Rajapakha, J

I agree

NRj-

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

CA PHC APN 38/2012 HC RATNAPURA RA 11/2010 JUDGMENT 07.03.2014