==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C A 252/2010 Writ

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS ON:

DECIDED ON

In the matter of an application for a mandate in the nature of a Writ of Certiorari under and in terms of Article 140 of the Constitution.

Corporal lA.N.G. Jayasinghe,

611, Miriheliya, Alawwa.

(presently in the Welikada Prison)

PETITIONER

Vs.

01.Air Commodore C.R.Gurusinghe, President, District Court Martial, Air Force Head Quarters, Colombo 2. And 11 Others.

RESPONDENTS

SATHYA HETTGE, P.C.J.(P/C.A.) And

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

Saliya Peiris for the Petitioner

Iresha de Silva SC for the Respondents

20.01.2011

25.02.2011

22.03.2011

2

UP AL Y ABEYRA THNE, J.

The Petitioner was a Corporal of the Sri Lanka Air Force serving at

Poovarasankulam. He had been prosecuted before a District Court Martial on the

following counts. Namely;

1. That at the Special Operations Group Sri Lanka Air Force

Poovarasankulam on 12th May 2008 at about 11 hrs that he did refuse to

obey the order given by his superior officer 10396 Flight Sergeant

Somarathne ET to do fatigue (to fill earth into officer's mess premises),

thereby committing an offence punishable under section 99 (1) of the Air

Force Act,

2. That at the Special Operations Group Sri Lanka Air Force

Poovarasankulam on 1 i h May 2008 at about 11 hrs that he did offer

violence by attempting to open fire at his superior officer 10396 Flight

Sergeant Somarathne ET by using a gun (T/56) bearing serial No

3727708, thereby committing an offence punishable under section 99 (I)

of the Air Force Act.

After trial the Petitioner was found guilty for both counts and the

District Court Martial recommended a sentence, on the 1 st count, of 01 year

rigorous imprisonment and on the 2nd count, 05 years rigorous imprisonment. Upon

the receipt of said recommendation the 12th Respondent, acting under section 65 of

the Air Force Act, has confirmed a sentence, on the 1 st count, of 01 year rigorous

imprisonment and on the 2nd count, 03 years rigorous imprisonment to run

concurrently.

The Petitioner is now seeking a mandate in the nature of Writ of

Certiorari to quash the said conviction and the sentence. The learned counsel for

3

the Petitioner strenuously contended that the defence of accident and the burden of

proof has not been considered by the District Court Martial and the 11 th

Respondent, Judge Advocate, in his summing up, has failed to direct the District

Court Martial to consider the defence of accident and the burden of proof.

I now advert to the said submission. It appears from the proceedings

before the District Court Martial that 11 witnesses have given evidence for the

Prosecution. According to the 04 eye witnesses, this incident had taken place in

Poovarasankulam Camp. It was a temporary Camp situated in a jungle area

consisting of temporary shelters for Officers and Airmen. According to the eye

witnesses, on the day in question, the Petitioner and several other Corporals had

been ordered by Flight Sergeant Somaratne to attend fatigue duty. The Petitioner

had refused to obey the said order. Thereafter Sergeant Somaratne had proceeded

to Sergeants' Mess and had complained about the Petitioner's conduct to Warrant

Officer Balasooriya. At that time the Petitioner too had come near the rear entrance

of the Sergeants' Mess. Then Warrant Officer Balasooriya had informed the

Petitioner to attend fatigue duty as ordered by Somaratne. Sergeant Somaratne

again had ordered the Petitioner to carry out his order. At that point of time the

Petitioner had aimed his weapon (T 56) at Sergeant Somaratne and had pulled the

trigger. Due to the safety-catch being on, a shot had not been fired. Thereafter the

Petitioner had changed the safety-catch to firing position and had pulled the trigger

but a shot had not been fired. Thereafter the Petitioner had cocked the weapon in

order to lord a bullet in to the chamber of the weapon and had attempted once

again to fire his weapon at Sergeant Somaratne. At that moment Sergeant

Dissanayake while shouting 'don't shoot' 'don't shoot' had jumped forward and

had held the gun. At that instant a shot had been fired by the Petitioner. Thereafter

the Petitioner had released the gun from his hand and had shouted 'I did not fire, it

4

was sergeant Dissanayake who fired'. Then Sergeant Somartne had replied 'don't

lie Jayasinghe, Seargeant Dissanayake did not fire, you are the person who fired'.

It is important to note that during the course of cross examination of

the said four eye witnesses, the Petitioner did not question about an accidental

firing. At least the Petitioner did not suggest to the said witnesses that the shot had

been fired accidentally. I have carefully examined the evidence of the case for the

prosecution. There is no iota of evidence to suggest that the Petitioner has taken the

defence of accident during the hearing of the case for the Prosecution.

It was the position of the Petitioner that the defence of accident was

taken up at the hearing of evidence of the Petitioner. I now consider the said

position. The Petitioner in his evidence admitted that on the day in question

Sergeant Somaratne ordered him to perform fatigue duty. He had further admitted

that he did not attend fatigue duty since the others were not at the work place.

Thereafter the Petitioner had gone to Corporals' Mess without attending to fatigue

duty.

It is apparent from the evidence that the Petitioner had refused to obey

the orders given by Sergeant Somaratne.

According to the Petitioner, thereafter Sergeant Somaratne had

proceeded towards the Officers' Mess. The Petitioner who was at the Corporals'

mess had followed Sergeant Somaratne. The Petitioner further said that when he

started to walk behind Sergeant Somaratne he took his weapon and cocked it in

order to lord a bullet in to the chamber of the weapon. When the Petitioner was

questioned about the reason for him to lord a bullet in to the chamber of the

weapon, he said that they had been instructed to keep the weapon ready with them

when they are proceeding to their duty point. On the said evidence it is important

5

to note that at that time, in fact, the Petitioner was not proceeding towards his duty

point. He further said that after he met Warrant Officer Balasooriya he understood

that he had to carry out fatigue duty. Then he turned to go by taking weapon in to

his hand. At that moment Sergeant Dissanayake jumped on to his weapon and held

him. He feared about his weapon may be fired since he inserted a bullet in to it.

Therefore he turned his weapon down. Sergeant Dissanayake tried to take the

weapon and then a shot emanated from the gun.

I have carefully considered the evidence of the Petitioner. The

Petitioner in his evidence had stated that after he met Warrant Officer Balasooriya

he understood that he had to carry out fatigue duty and he turned to go by taking

weapon in to his hand. When I consider said evidence, it appears to me that the

Petitioner had failed to explain why he took his weapon in to his hand when he

turned to go back. That is because the Petitioner in his evidence had stated that

when he started to proceed towards sergeants' mess behind Sergeant Somaratne he

took his weapon and cocked it in order to lord a bullet in to the chamber of the

weapon. It is apparent from the said evidence of the Petitioner that the conduct of

the Petitioner at that time was surreptitious and does not form a part of an accident.

Therefore I am of the view that the evidence of the Petitioner does not

form a part of the defence of accident. There is no iota of evidence to conclude or

suggest that there had been an accidental firing. In the said circumstances I am of

the view that the 11 th Respondent Judge Advocate had addressed the District Court

Martial on the evidence that had been led before the Court Martial. Since, there

had been no evidence led before the District Court Martial in relation to the

defence of accident it cannot be alleged that the summing up of the Judge

Advocate (11 th Respondent) contains non-directions and misdirection when he did

not address the Court Martial on the defence of accident.

\ ! k

6

For the forgoing reasons I dismiss the Petitioner's application for writ

without costs.

Application dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

SATHY A HETTGE, P.C.J.(P/C.A.)

I agree.

President of the Court Of Appeal