==== BLOCKS ==== 

i .i I I

4 I 1 \ 1 I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA PHC 198/2003

PHC Balapitiya 442/02

G pawrarasiri De Soyza,

Gurugedara,

Nape,

Kosgoda

4TH RESPONDENT -PETITIONER-APPELLANT

Vs

A P Indrani De Soysa,

Nanathota,

Kosgoda

1 ST RESPONDENT-RESPONDENT -RESPONDENT AND OTHERS

Before : A.W.A. Salam, J. & Sunil Rajapakshe, J.

Counsel: Nagitha Wijesekara with I Danthanarayana for the 4t

respondent-petitioner-appellant and D S Saman De Silva for the

18t 2nd 5th and 6th respondent-respondent-respondents.

Argued on : 07.11.2013

Decided on : 12.11.2013

1

I I

:~

A W A Salam, J

This appeal is from the judgment of the learned High Court

judge dated 4th September 2003, entered in the exercise of the

revisionary powers vested in the Provincial High Court. It was

delivered consequent upon the 4th respondent-petitioner-

appellant challenging the determination made by the learned

Magistrate in proceedings instituted under chapter VII of the

Primary Court Procedure Act No 44 of 1979.

Proceedings in the Magistrate's Court originated upon a

complaint made by the 1 st respondent-respondent-respondent

to the Kosgoda Police on 6 June 2001 upon which the

respective police had filed a report under Section 66 (1) (a) of

the Primary Court Procedure Act. According to the complaint

made to the police the 4th respondent-petitioner- appellant had

made preparation to enter into the house in the possession of

2

I I I ,

@

the 1 st respondent-respondent-respondent. After the parties

having filed their claims by way of affidavit and later made

written submissions on the matter, the learned Magistrate by

his order dated 2nd May 2002, came to the findings that the 1 st

respondent-respondent-respondent had been dispossessed by

the 4th respondent-petitioner-appellant, within a period of two

months immediately preceding the date of filing the information

and directed that the 1 st respondent-respondent-respondent be

restored to possession. The main question that was raised in

the appeal was that the house in question was abandoned and

in the possession of none, even though the learned High Court

judge in her judgment had stated that by reason of the payment

of the electricity bills, it can be assumed that the 1 st and the

2nd respondent-respondent-respondents had been in the

possession of the house in dispute.

It is common ground that the house in question at one point of

time belonged to a person by the name "Ryting" and upon his

3 t{',,!!II

demise, it had devolved on his seven children. The

4th respondent-petitioner-appellant has purchased undivided

rights of 2fl from two of the children of the deceased "Ryting"

and thereafter had entered into the house when the keys of the

house had been allegedly handed over to him by one of the

vendors on which he had purchased the undivided rights.

The learned and Magistrate in his determination has come to

the flawless finding that the 4th respondent-petitioner-appellant

has come into possession of the house in question on 28 May

2001. The deed on which he has purchased rights from the two

children of the original owner is produced at the inquiry and

according to the said deed the rights have been purchased by

the 4t respondent-petitioner- appellant on 17 May 2001.

The main question that arises for consideration at this jucture is

whether the learned and High Court judge had erred herself in

coming to the conclusion that by reason of the payment of the

4

~

!I

!

1IIrIt

rI

~ i

r1II

f

ttt!ir

ff

electricity bills the 1 st and the 2nd respondent can be said to

have been in possession of the subject matter of the

proceedings. The learned counsel for the appellant strenuously

argued that the house in question was abandoned and

therefore the 4th respondent petitioner appellant had every right

to enter into possession with the permission of the vendors to

the deed on which she has purchased the rights.

Even though the electricity had not been consumed during the

relevant period in respect of the house in question, admittedly

an electricity bill worked out for a nominal amount has been

-issued as it is done usually, in the name of the 1st

respondent-respondent-respondent who alleged that she was

dispossessed from the house.

In the case of Iqbal Vs Majeudeen 1999 3 Sri Lanka Law

Report page 213 it was held that the fact in determining

whether a person is in possession of any corporeal thing such

5

I II

I

IIi

t

as a house is to ascertain whether he is in general control of it.

It was further held in that case that the law recognises two

kinds of possession namely when a person has direct physical

control over a thing at a given time his possession is called

actual possession. On the other hand when he though not in

actual possession has both the power and intention at a given

time to exercise dominion or control over a thing either directly

or through another person, in such an event his possession is

termed as constructive possession.

When the concept of possession referred to above, is applied

to the facts of the presente, it is quite clear that the house in

question had not been abandoned and the intention of the

1 st respondent-respondent-respondent was to retain her power

of control over the disputed house. In the circumstances the

appellant had no right whatsoever to enter into the possession

of the house on the basis that it was abandoned. In that respect

the learned and High Court judge was correct when she came

6

IIlIIIII

Ir

i

t

r

I! 1i

to the conclusion that by reason of the electricity bills being paid

by the party who was dispossessed, se was in actual

possession of the house in question. As such the learned

Magistrate was also correct when he arrived at the conclusion

that the 1 st respondent-respondent-respondent has been

dispossessed during a period immediately preceding the date

I

of filing the information under Section 66.

In the circumstances, I do not see any reason to vary the

determination of the learned Magistrate or the impugned

judgment of the learned High Court judge. Consequently, this

, appeal stands dismissed subject to costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Sunil Rajapaksha,J

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

NR/-

7

I

Jr!rI