==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA No. 269/2007 H.C.Colombo No. HC 3092/2006

Faul Hameed Jeinudeen alias Manidan No: 47, Church Street, Colombo 02.

Appellant Vs. Hon. Attorney General Attorney General’s Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

C.A. NO. 269/2007

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

H.C.Colombo No. HC 3092/2006

SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J. &

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA, J.

Rushdl. Zarook, Assigned Counsel for the

Accused-appellant

Shanil Kularatne SSC for the respondent.

08.05.2013 & 09.05.2013.

09th May, 2013.

*******

SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J.

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted of the

murder of a man named Cader Mohideen Sulaiman Farook alias Nana

and of the murder of Miskin Saibu Asaami Beebi, who is the wife of

Nana and for robbing jewellelry worth Rs. 48,000/ = from the possession

of said Miskin Saibu Asaami Beebi. On the 1st and the 2nd counts he

was sentenced to death. On the 3rct count he was sentenced to a term of

7 years Rigorous Imprisonment. Being aggrieved by the said convictions

and the sentences the accused-appellant has appealed to this Court.

The facts of this case may be briefly summarized as follows:-

The deceased person, Nana ran a boutique in Galle Face

and was in the habit of coming home around 3.30 a.m. in the morning

after finishing business in the said boutique. Nana had several workers

working in the boutique and these workers were staying in a separate

room which was very close to Nana's house. Nana was in the habit of

going to sleep after getting a massage done by one of his employees who

was working in the boutique. On the day of the incident around 5.30

a.m. Fazarudeen who was one of the employees, employed by Nana

came to Nana's house in order to see whether the doors of the house

were properly locked. He found both front door and the rear door locked.

When he came near the rear en trance of the house of N ana, he heard

the shouts of Nana's wife and thereafter he continued to wait near the

rear door. Whilst he was waiting near the rear door, the accused -

appellant after opening the rear door came out of Nana's house carrying

a parcel of money. Fazarudeen grappled with the accused-appellant

who dropped the parcel of money. During the grapple the accused-

appellant also dropped a knife. Both items were later handed over to the

police. When Fazarudeen went inside the house, he found Beebi suffering

from serious burn injuries. Fasarudeen and the people m the

neighbourhood took both Nana and the Beebi to the hospital. Nana was

found to be dead on admission. Beebi was admitted to the hospital and

died few days later. Beebi whilst in the hospital made a statement to

the investigating police officer. Beebi, in her 1st statement, stated that

the accused-appellant came to her house, tied her legs and took her

jewellery from the Almairah in the house. According to Beebi the

accused-appellant thereafter set fire to the house. Beebi made another

statement to her son stating that the accused-appellant entered the

house and took her necklace which was on her neck. Beebi in her

statement made to the police stated that the necklace was taken from the

Almairah. But she said a slightly different version to her son with regard

to the necklace. According to the statement made to her son, necklace

had been taken from her neck. In our view this is not a material

contradiction to reject the dying declaration made by Beebi. Learned

Counsel for the accused-appellant contended that statement made by

Beebi who is the second deceased person in this case cannot be

considered as a dying declaration under Section 32(1) of the Evidence

Ordinance.

Section 32(1) of the Evidence Ordinance reads as follows:-

,, Statements, written or verbal, of the relevant facts made by

a person who is dead, or who cannot be found or who has

become incapable of giving evidence, or whose attendance '

cannot be procured without an amount of delay or expense

which, under the circumstances of the case, appears to the

Court unreasonable, are themselves relevant facts in the

following cases.:-

(1 )when the statement is made by a person as to the

cause of his death, or as to any of the circumstances of

the transaction which resulted in his death, in cases in

which the cause of that person's death comes into

question"

The contention of the learned Counsel for the accused-

appellant was that the statement made by the deceased person to a

police officer does not come within the meaning of verbal statement. I

now advert to this contention. In the Ali Sandiri vs. The King 38 NLR

page 257, a nod of assent given by the deceased person who was unable

to speak to a question whether it was the accused who cut her neck was

held to be admissible under Section 32(1) of the Evidence Ordinance. In

the present case the deceased person has made a statement to the

investigating police officer. When I consider the principle laid down

Alisandiri's case I hold the view that the statement made by a deceased

person to a police officer ( before his death) comes within the meaning 'of

verbal statement' and is admissible under section 32(1) of the Evidence

Ordinance. I therefore reject the contention of learned Counsel for the

accused-appellant. The accused-appellant has come from the house of

' .

the two deceased persons (nana and Beebi) at the time of the incident

(5.30 a.m. on the day of the incident). Both deceased persons were

found inside the house at this time. Both deceased persons who had

injuries were admitted to the hospital. Nana died due to a haemorrhagic

shock due to stab injuries that he sustained. Beebi died due septicemic

shock following superficial and deep skin burns. Beebi in her dying

declaration says that the accused-appellant who entered the house after

tying her legs set fire to the house. The accused denied the incident in

his dock statement. When we consider the evidence led at the trial, we

are of the opinion that the learned trial Judge had rightly convicted

accused-appellant on all three charges. We therefore affirm the

convictions and the sentences and dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Kwk/=