==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 897 I 2000 F

D.C. Colombo No. 4682 I SPL

N. D. Yasaratna, CIO Hameed Stores, Kalpitiya Road, Palaviya.

Vs.

Lanka Salt Limited, Elvitigala Mavatha, Narahenpita, Colombo 5.

Plaintiff

Defendant

AND NOW BETWEEN

N. D. Y asaratna, CIO Hameed Stores, Kalpitiya Road, Palaviya.

Vs

Lanka Salt Limited, Elvitigala Mavatha, N arahenpita, Colombo 5.

Plaintiff Appellant

Defendant Respondent

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

The Plaintiff Appellant- Absent and

unrepresented

Nayomi Kahawita SC for the Defendant

Respondent

13.02.2013

22.05.2013

The Plaintiff Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant)

instituted the said action against the Defendant Respondent (hereinafter referred to

the Respondent) in the District Court of Colombo seeking a judgement for specific

performance.

The Appellant has averred in his plaint that by circular No. T 7/39/92

dated 19.11.1992 the Respondent had introduced a pension scheme on voluntary

basis subject to a payment of compensation. Upon the said circular about 120

employees of the Respondent Company inclusive of the Appellant had applied to

retire on payment of compensation. But the Respondent had disallowed the

Applications of 20 employees inclusive of the Appellant requesting them to be in

the service until the Respondent find alternative employees for the service of the

Respondent Company. Thereafter the Appellant had agreed to the said request of

the Respondent and continued to be in the service of the Respondent Company.

3

The Appellant has further averred that thereafter on several occasions

he had requested the Respondent to allow him to retire on the said basis under the

said circular but the Respondent had failed to consider the Appellant's application

for retirement.

The Appellant has instituted the said action in the District Court on

the basis that there has been an agreement between the parties and the Respondent

has failed to give effect to the said agreement.

I have carefully considered the facts of the case. It is apparent from

the pleadings of the plaint that the Appellant is seeking for a judgment giving

effect to the said circular. The said relief claimed by the Appellant falls within the

writ jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal and therefore the learned District Judge

cannot invoke the jurisdiction of the District Court on the issue raised by the

Appellant.

In the aforesaid circumstances the issue No 01 should have been

answered in the negative and on that ground the Appellant's action should have

been dismissed. Therefore I do not find any reason to interfere with the dismissal

of the Appellant's action by the judgment dated 22.11.2000. Accordingly this

appeal dismissed with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal