==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A.No.80/97 (F) D.C.Kulutara No.4370/P.

Hettige Dona Maggie Nona Jorsy Goda, Maha Iduruwa, Iduruwa.

2nd Defendent Appellant Vs. Hettige Dona Punchi Nona Iddagoda, Mathugama.

Complainant Respondents

·. .

'

C.A.No.S0/97 (F)

Before

Counsel

Argued and Decided on

K.T.Chitrasiri J.

D.C.Kulutara No.4370/P.

K.T.Chitrasiri,J.

2nd Defendant-Appellant is absent and unrepresented.

Lahiru Abeysekare for the 6th , 11th, 12th and

18th Defendant-Respondents.

01.03.2013.

1

When this matter was mentioned on the lOth February 2011, it was

brought to the notice of Court that the 2nd defendant-appellant namely

Hettige Dona Maginona is dead. The 6th, 11th ,12th and 18th defendant-

respondents who are present today also inform Court that the 2nd

defendant-appellant died 5 years before, leaving her 3 children. Those

heirs of the appellant had not taken steps to have them substituted in

the room of the deceased 2nd defendant-appellant for the purpose of

proceedings with this appeal. Such inaction of the heirs of the 2nd

defendant-appellant shows that they are not interested in prosecuting

this appeal.

2

When the appellant is dead and no steps are being taken to

substitute the heirs of the deceased-appellant, the appeal cannot be

proceeded with. Accordingly, this Court makes an order abating the

appeal. Appeal is abated and therefore the proceedings in this Court are

terminated.

At this stage, it must be noted that the order that is to be

challenged by this Court does not fall within the category of a

"Judgment" in order to file a final appeal. The order that is being

canvassed in this appeal is the order dated 28 I 1 I 1997 that was made

pursuant to the application made by the petition dated 0917 I 1996 (Page

142 of the brief). The said order is clearly not a judgment. Therefore the

2nd defendant-appellant should have first obtained leave of this Court for

her to proceed with this appeal. On that ground too the appeal cannot

be sustained.

The Registrar of this Court is directed to keep the original record in

this Court for a period of two months and thereafter to send the same

back to the District of Kalutara for necessary action according to law.

Learned Counsel for the Respondent at this stage submits

that the learned District Judge is yet to deliver the judgment in this case

3

though the trial Judge has already concluded the trial . On a perusal of

the record, it is seen that due to several interim applications made,

pending the delivery of the judgment, learned District Judge was

prevented from delivering the same. Therefore, the present District Judge

is free to adopt the evidence that has already been recorded, if the parties

so wish, and to deliver the judgment thereafter.

Accordingly, appeal 1s abated and the proceedings m this

Court are terminated.

Proceedings terminated.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

WC/