==== BLOCKS ==== 

\

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for mandate in the nature of writ of certiorari under in terms of article 140 of the constitution of the

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

1 Ranabahuge Chithrasiri,

Ambagahawatta, Kalawana.

2 Gamage Don Nandawathie,

Ambagahawatta, Kalawana.

3 Udakanda Kankanamalage

Karunarathne,

Ambagahawatta, Kalawana

Petitioners

Case No. CA/WRIT/266/2014.

1

Vs.

National Gem and Juwellery

Authority,

~o: 25 Galle Face Terrace,

Colombo 03.

2 I!tf) 1!2 Amitha Gamage, fI IChairman and Chief Executive f ! Officer, !,National Gem and Juwellery

f Authority, No: 25 Galle Face Ii Terrace, Colombo 03. ! t3 R.M. Janaka Udaya Kumara, ~ iDirector General, ,J!National Gem and Juwellery IAuthority, !!~ No: 25 Galle Face Terrace, I .,, Colombo 03 .. I I

~ 4 N.P. Samarathunga, !

t: ! Deputy Director, , I(Land and Regional Development) t !.

~ Regional Office, •I (National Gem and Juwellery fAuthority, ~ JNo: 25 Galle Face Terrace, ti f Colombo 03. r t r,5 Priyanthi Jayasinghe ~ (Inquiry Officer, K! National Gem and Juwellery f(Authority, t Ft t No: 25 Galle Face Terrace,

Colombo 03. ,t 6 N.V.D. Chaminda Somadasa, fc ,,No: 195/2, Ambagahawatta, !! i Kalawana. I

~ ResQondents tII, I Il

C.A. 266/2014

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

A.H.M.D. Nawaz,J.

An Application for Writ of certiorari

Vijith K. Malalgoda, P.C.J. (PICA) &

A.H.M.D. Nawaz,J.

Dr. Sunil Cooray with E.M.D. Upali

for the Petitioners

H. Ruwankumara for the 6th

Respondent

17.10.2014

ORDER ON INTERIM RELIEF

The Petitioners who claim to be the co-owners of a land called

"Dodamgahapelessa" situated in Kalawna have sought a mandate in

the nature of a writ of certiorari to quash the decision of the 1st

Respondent Authority granting the 6th Respondent a licence to

prospect for gems on the said land. The decision dated 2nd July 2014

(P-11) has been made after inquiry by the National Gem and

Jewellery Authority and this order pertains to a stay order that that

the Petitioners have sought staying the operation of the license

issued until the final determination of this application.

The law pertaining to the grant of gem mining licences is found in

By-Laws promulgated under State Gem Corporation Act No 13 of

r /.' 1 I / J ! I})

1 I ! I

4

1971 and published in the Government Gazette No 14, 989 dated

23.12.1971.

Section 54 (2) (h) of National Gem and Jewellery Authority Act No 50

of 1993 provides

"Every rule and every bylaw made under the State Gem Corporation

Act No 13 of 1971, and in force on the day immediately preceding

the appointed date and which are not inconsistent with the

provisions of this Act shall be deemed to be rules and bylaws made

under this Act."

The pertinent bylaws read as follows;

8(2) no licence shall be granted to any person unless:-

(a) he himself owns the land; or

(b) he has obtained the consent of so many of the other owners

as to ensure that the applicant and such other

consenting owners together own at least two thirds of the

land in respect of which the application has been made.

It is the contention of the Petitioners that the bylaw stipulates that

the applicant contemplated in the disjunctive limbs of the bylaw

namely 8 (2)(a) and 8(2)(b) must be an owner or a co-owner of the

land in respect of which the gemming licence is granted.

The Petitioners contend that the 6th Respondent being a lessee of the

land cannot become an applicant for a licence even though all the

co-owners have joined in the lease bond for the specific purpose of

granting mining rights to the 6th Respondent on the said land.

!IIIi I I

It

s

~I

i

f

f

i

/~$ / f J)

5

On the other hand the Counsel for the 6th Respondent joins issue

with this argument contending among other things that a lessee who

has secured the consent of all co-owners steps into the shoes of an

owner in order to qualify for a licence in terms of Clause 8(2) of the

Regulations.

It is this pivotal and rival contention that would engage the

attention of this Court in judicial review of the decision to grant a

licence to the 6th Respondent and the Court bears in mind that the

investigation into these rival contentions would entail the correct

interpretation of Regulation 8(2) as adverted to above. In other

words having regard to the criteria spelt out in Regulation 8 and the

evidence placed before the 1 st Respondent, the question arises

whether the 1st Respondent authority has correctly interpreted

Regulation 8 to conclude that the 6th Respondent is entitled to the

benefit of the license that has been accorded to him.

The Petitioners also contend that there was no proof with evidence

that the 6th Respondent had satisfied the 1 st Respondent Authority

as to the requirements for issuing a gem mining license. But the 6th

Respondent contends that he is in fact a co-owner of the land in

question-please see paragraph 21 of the written submissions filed on

behalf of the 6th Respondent.

It has to be pointed out at this stage that in judicial reVIew this

Court IS not concerned whether the 1 st Respondent Authority

reached the correct decision or not. What this Court would be

concerned with in this application is whether the decision was

reached after following the principles of administrative justice.

f

f

II

IriII

I

fl /1 " /i /

\

6

In fact this Court recalls the words of Lord Diplock in R V Minister

for the Civil Service ex parte Council of Civil Service Unions

(the GCHQ case) (1985) that impinge on the two differing

interpretations that the parties seek to place on Regulation 8. In the

GCHQ case. Lord Diplock states in that case

"By illegality as a ground for judicial review I mean that the

decision maker must understand correctly the law that

regulates his decision-making and must give effect to it."

This court would be able to arrive at an assessment of the

correctness or otherwise of the ground of review that is being

agitated in the case only after the Court has had the benefit of

having heard the case of the Respondents inclusive of the case of the

1 st Respondent authority whose decision is being impugned before

us and now that the the licence has been in esse since its grant on

4th of July 2014 and the 6th Respondent has admittedly been on the

land qua a licence holder for a while, this Court is disinclined to

disturb the status quo and does not think it appropriate that a stay

order should be granted at this stage.

There are other principles that militate against the grant of an

interim relief at this stage other than the above. Though this Court

has not had the benefit of oral submissions for a stay order because

this was supported before a different bench of this Court, we have

perused the written submissions filed by the parties and we bear in

mind the usual indicia that are adopted in the grant of a stay order

namely "the Court will be guided inter alia by the following

principles-(a) will the final order be rendered nugatory if the

Petitioner is successful? (b) where does the balance of convenience

:/ ~.~.

7

lie? -Mahindasoma v Maithripla Senanayake (1996) 1 Sri.LR 364 at

366.

In these cases it is usually obligatory that the applicant for the

license namely the 6th Respondent, according to the rules of the 1 st

Respondent authority, agrees to deposit the relevant ground share

from the proceeds of sale with the Gem & Jewellery Authority and

that is how the interests of the Petitioners are protected. As such the

issuance of the license to the 6th Respondent cannot adversely affect

the rights of the Petitioners. Thus this Court is of the opinion that

the tests for granting a stay order -the tests that we have

adumbrated above do not favor the Petitioners. On this ground too

we are disinclined to grant stay order that has been prayed for

Accordingly the Court refuses the stay order as prayed for at para

(c ) of the prayer in the Petition.

Vijith K. Malalgoda,PC J (P j CAl

I agree

Naj-

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Preside the Court of Appeal