==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA Writ No.342/2009

Serasinghe Jayakody Arachchilage Laksman Kumarasiri Jayakody, No.11/4, Mawilawate, Weerahena(East), Nattandiya. Serasinghe Jayakody Arachchilage Sunil Jayakody, Illupugamuwa, Welipennagahamulla.

Petitioners Vs. Divisional Secretary, Divisional Secretariat, Udubeddawa. Electrical Engineer, Electricity Board, Nattandiya, Chilaw Road, Wennappuwa. G.Noroshani Fernando, Illuppugamuwa, Welipannagahamulla. Ceylon Electricity Board, Chittampalam Gardinar Mawatha, Colombo 02. Divisional Secretary, Divisional Secreatariat, Kurunegala. W.M.Upul Priyantha, Iluppugamuwa, Welipannagahamulla. Hon. Attorney General, Attorney-General's Department, Colombo 12.

Respondents

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

An application in the nature of Writs of

Certiorari in terms of Article 140 of the

Constitution of the Democratic Socialist

Republic of Sri Lanka.

*******

(.A. (Writ) Application No. 342/2009

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

: D.H. Siriwardana for 1st and 2nd

Petitioners.

: Chaya Sri Nammuni S C for 1 st, 2nd ,

4th , 5th , 7th and 8th Respondents.

: 20th January, 2014.

: 04th April, 2014.

1

Oeepali Wijesundera J.

The petitioners have filed this application against the respondents

praying for a Writ of Certiorari to quash the documents marked as P8 and

P13. P8 is a letter dated 22/07/2008 addressed to the 2nd petitioner by

the 1

51 respondent. P13 is a letter addressed by the 2nd respondent to the

151 petitioner.

By letter P8 the 1

51 respondent has informed the 2nd respondent

that an inquiry was held in his office regarding the objection made by the

2nd petitioner against the 2nd respondent in connection with the electricity

connection to be given to the 3rd respondent's house and after the inquiry

the 1

51 respondent sent an agent to inspect the said area and have

decided to give the electricity connection as mentioned in the said letter.

He has attached a sketch and under sec.1S of the Electricity Act

approved the said connection.

By letter P13 the 2nd respondent informs the 1

51 petitioner that an

inquiry was held after he objected to lines being drawn to give the

electricity connection to the 3rd respondent and it was decided to give the

connection to the 3rd respondent with copies to 2nd petitioner and 3rd

2

respondent. He was informed under sec. 15 of the said act to act

accordingly, by the 1 st respondent. This court has to decide whether

there is sufficient material to issue a writ of certiorari to quash these two

documents.

When the 1 st and 2nd respondents tried to give an electricity

connection to the 3rd respondent after she made an application for same

the 1 st and 2nd petitioners have objected by letters marked as P4 and P5

for the electrical lines being drawn close to their houses. The petitioner's

argument was since the 3rd respondent bought the land from the 6th

respondent she should be given the connection over the 6th respondent's

land as they have shown in their sketch marked as P3 with their petition.

The main argument of the petitioners was that the 3rd respondent

who bought the land from the 6th respondent acting in collusion with the

officials of the Divisional Secretariat of Udubeddawa and the 6th

respondent, whose wife is a Samurdhi Animator sought to get the

electricity lines drawn over their land without getting the connection over

the 6th respondent's land. The petitioners submitted in these conditions

they have been wronged and victimized in an unreasonable manner by

the respondents.

3

,

II

tI

II

Though the petitioners stated that they have been unreasonably

treated the 1st petitioner did not participate at the inquiry held by the 1st

respondent after the petitioners objected to the electricity lines been

drawn near their houses. After the inquiry and field visit by the 1st

respondent's agent and the 2nd respondent they have decided to draw

the electricity lines by the sides of the petitioner's land 1 R2, 2R1 shows

that the line does not fall on to their land.

Document P3 produced by the petitioner's shows that the only

roadway to the 3rd respondent's land is the road which go between the 151

and 2nd petitioner's houses therefore the electricity line should also take

the same route.

P8 is dated 22/07/2008 and the said letter stated an inquiry was

held on the 21/07/2008 for which only the 2nd petitioner has gone and it

was decided at the inquiry itself to draw the electricity lines along their

roadway. This application was filed to quash this letter dated 22/07/2008

in June 2009. That is almost one year after the said decision was taken.

To get over this the petitioners have sought to quash P13 also which is

dated 12/05/2009, by this letter which is a reply to the 1st petitioner's

inquiry they have informed the 1st petitioner that the 1st and 2nd

respondents have already made a decision on 22/07/2008 and that both

4

parties were sent copies of same. The petitioners after staying silent for

nearly a year without giving a valid reason for the delay tried to mislead

court by introducing P13 to get over their lapse.

On perusal of all the documents filed by both parties this court

decide that the decision to draw the electricity lines along the route

specified has been subsequent to the ruling out of any possibility of a

threat to life or property of the petitioners. No prejudice has been caused

to the petitioners by this decision of the 1 st and 2nd respondents therefore

the petitioner's application is misconceived in law. Therefore the

application of the petitioners is dismissed with cost fixed at Rs. 10,000/=

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

5

IIIIi " i IiI