==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA 326/98/F D.C. Colombo 4905/SPL

D.W.S. Sumitha Padmini No. A/4, Municipal Market, Colombo 03.

PLAINTIFF - Vs- The Colombo Municipal Council Town Hall, Colombo 07.

DEFENDANT AND NOW D.W.S. Sumitha Padmini No. A/4, Municipal Market, Colombo 03.

PLAINTIFF -APPELLANT - Vs- The Colombo Municipal Council Town Hall, Colombo 07.

DEFENDANT-RESPONDENT

C.A 326/98 (F) D.C.Colombo Case No: 4905/SPI

Before K.T.Chitrasiri, J.

Counsel Shantha Jayawardena for the Plaintiff -Appellant.

Argued &

Decided on

K.T.Chitrasiri, J.

C.Nillanduwa for the Defendant-Respondent.

13.03.2013.

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases. This is an

appeal seeking to set aside the judgment dated 03.02.1998. By that

judgment learned District Judge of Colombo dismissed the plaint

with costs. The said dismissal of the action is on the basis that the

cause of action of the Plaintiff had been prescribed in terms of

Section 307 (2) of the Municipal Council Ordinance.

It is to be noted that the date on which the action was dismissed

has been the date fixed to pronounce the order on the application

made for an interim injunction. Without delivering the order as to

- 2-

the said application for an interim injunction, learned District

Judge dismissed the main action, filed by the Plaintiff.

At this stage, both Counsel agree that no opportunity was given for

both the parties, either to call witnesses or to make their

submissions, on the issue of prescription. In fact no issue had been

framed at all in order to determine the question of prescription.

Without doing so, no party could call witnesses or make

submissions in support of their respective cases as to the question

of prescription.

Therefore, it is clear that the learned District Judge has been

misdirected himself when he dismissed the action on the issue of

prescription without affording an opportunity for the parties to call

witnesses on their behalf or to make submissions. Indeed, it is

always desirable to allow the parties to call witnesses m

determining 1ssue of prescription since it may involve facts,

particularly as to the date of commencement of a particular cause

of action.

For the aforesaid reasons the judgment dated 03.02.1998 of the

learned District Judge of Colombo is set aside. No party is entitled

to the costs of this appeal.

- 3-

Leaned District Judge of Colombo is directed to proceed with the

action upon delivering the order with regard to the application for

an interim injunction.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Vkg/-