==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA (PHC) APN 184/2013 Revision HCCA Kandy 42/2012 Writ

D.M.H. Abeykulawardena, No: 05, Vihara Mawatha, Daluwalatenna, Lunuketiyamaditta, Menikhinna. And another

Petitioner-Petitioners Vs 01. S.B. Beddewala, President. Central Provincial Public Service Commission, Mahaiyawa, Katugasthota, Kandy. And 8 others

Respondent-Respondents

----CA (PUC) APN 184/2013 Revision HCCA Kandy 42/2012 Writ

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED &

DECIDED ON

K. T. CHITRASIRI, J.

K.T. Chitrasiri, J. &

W.M.M. MaUnie Gunaratne, J.

Prinath Fernando for the two petitioner-

petitioners.

Anusha Fernando SSC for the 1 st - 9th

Respondent-respondents.

14.11.2014

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases.

This is a revIsion application filed by the two petitioners, seeking to

revise and/or set aside the order dated 25.05.2012 of the learned High

Court Judge in the Civil Appellate High Court of the Central Province

holden in Kandy. Initially, the two petitioners filed an application in the

Provincial High Court, seeking to have a writ of certiorari and a writ of

mandamus issued against the respondents. The learned High Court

Judge in that writ application having heard the learned Counsel for the

petitioner, decided not 'to issue the notices on the respondents.

Accordingly, he has dismissed the writ application filed in the High

Court. Against which decision, the two petitioners have invoked the

revisionary jurisdiction of this Court seeking for a direction on the

learned High Court Judge to look into the merits of the writ application

1

filed in that Court. At this stage, it is pertinent to note that the

petitioners in such a situation could have filed an appeal which right

they have not resorted to. Instead they have filed this application

invoking the revisionary jurisdiction of this Court.

According to the averments in the petition of appeal, the petitioners have

filed an appeal in the Supreme Court to challenge the decision impugned

in this application. It had been dismissed for want of jurisdiction in that

Court. Thereafter, the petitioners have come to this Court by way of a

revision application. Therefore, it is necessary to note that the

petitioners have failed to exercise the right of appeal which is a statutory

right the petitioners possess.

Having argued the matter to some extent, learned Counsel for the

petitioner submitted that he is not pursuing the relief (qJ) that had been

prayed for in the petition filed in the High Court. He submitted so, due

to the reason that the decisions mentioned in the documents referred to

in that prayer' q> , do not amount to administrative or executive decision

that are liable to be reviewed under writ jurisdiction.

Then the question is whether the learned High Court Judge is correct

when he did not allow the petitioners to proceed with the application

made to have a writ of mandamus as prayed for in paragraph 'lfc' in the

prayer to the petition filed in the High Court. Learned High Court Judge

in his decision has stated that the relevant provisions in the Gazette

2

Notification marked (iO 1 (Vide at page 89 in the brief) by which the

applications for the recruitment of Gramaseva Niladharis had been

called, could become relevant, only to determine whether the applicants

are suitable. to call them for an oral interview. Admittedly, the two

petitioners had been called for an interview. Therefore, it is clear that

the basis on which the writ application was filed will not give right to

issue a writ of mandamus. Furthermore, learned High Court Judge has

stated that nothing is mentioned in the Gazette Notification ensuring

that the persons who have scored the highest marks would be appointed

to the relevant posts. In the circumstances, we do not see any error in

those reasoning adduced by the learned High Court Judge when he

decided not to issue notices on the respondents.

In Rule 5 (ii) found in the Gazette Notification marked CiO 1, it is stated

that the selections would be made upon an interview being held after

conducting a written examination. Therefore, it is clear that merely

because the petitioners have obtained higher marks do not entitle them

to be appointed to the posts that they have applied for. At this stage, we

note that in the relief' q'z' mentioned in the prayer to the petition filed in

the High Court, the petitioners have affirmatively stated that some of the

applicants have been appointed to the positions that they were seeking

to have them appointed. However, no material is available to establish

such a position and therefore it is seen that at the time of filing the writ

application the petitioners have failed to establish whether any

appointment had been made pursuant to the publication of the Gazette

3

'"

marked P 1. Furthermore, there is no evidence to show that the

petitioners have made any application to the authorities concern to

'ascertain the outcome of their applications made. Without such

material, the High Court Judge would not have made an order issuing

even a writ of mandamus since nothing is found to decide that the

applicants have not been selected to the posts they have applied for.

For the aforesaid reasons, it is our view that the learned High Court

Judge is correct when he refused to issue notices on the respondents in

the writ application filed by the two petitioners. Accordingly, this

revision application is dismissed.

Application dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M. MALINIE GUNARATNE, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

KRLj-

4