==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

C.A. 710/96F

D.C. Kegalle 1321/l

BEFORE : A W A SALAM, J

D Pedrick Perera Mawanella Plaintiff-Appellant

DESEASED

l U Jayagosa, Dehimaduwa, Mawanella, Substituted-Plaintiff Appellant

Vs

Kapugampothe Ananda Maithri Theo,

Walkadayawa, / Aranayaka, Mawanella And 3 others Defendant-Respondents

COUNSEL Ranjan Suwandaratne with Ranjith Perera for the

substituted-plaintiff-appellant and Manohara De Silva PC with

Pubudini Wickramasingha for the defendant-respondents.

ARGUED ON : 25.04.20 II.

WRITIEN SUBMISSIONS TENDERED ON: 21.2.2012

DECIDED ON : 06.08.2012.

A W Abdus Saam, J

plaintiff- appellant has preferred the present appeal

t the dismissal of the plaintiffs' action for a

declaration of title to the land described in the schedule to the

plaint, ejectment of the defendants and damages. The plaintiffs

case as pleaded was that the plaintiff gifted the subject matter of

the action to the 1 st defendant subject to his life interest and

that of his wife on certain terms and conditions as laid down in

the deed of gift. By virtue of the life interest reserved in· them

when the plaintiffs had continued to possess the subject matter,

the subject matter has been leased out to the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th

defendants for a period of one year on an informal document,

upon the request of the 1 st defendant. Plaintiff averred that upon

the expiration of the lease agreement the defendants continued to

possess the property in question without any lawful authority

giving rise to a cause of action to sue the defendants for reliefs

prayed for in the plaint.

The defendants maintained that the land in question was gifted

by the plaintiff to the 1 st defendant who represented the entire

priesthood and therefore the subject matter constitutes a

Sangika property. On the contrary, as regards the deed of gift,

the plaintiff contended that the deed of gift was revoked by him

as the 1 st defendant failed to fulfil the terms and conditions of the

deed of gift. The deed by which the gift was revoked is dated 10

May 1974 bearing No 2442. This was produced as PI.

The trial commenced with the parties having made 2 admissions.

\

J

N M 0 N 00 0 I.ci 0 ..... c Q) E till -c

::::J ....,

...J .........

M N rn M UJ ...J ...J « 19 UJ ::.::: U a -\ 1.0 J 0'\ C>

M I' « u 2

The facts thus admitted were the execution of the deed of gift

1098 in favour of the 1 st defendant and that the wife of the

plaintiff died in the year 1968. Thereafter 16 issues were

suggested by the parties 6 by the plaintiff and the rest by the

defendants.

Although there were several questions arose for decision in the

trial court, the main question was whether the gift made by the

plaintiff constituted a dedication to the whole order of the

Sangha, present and future, throughout the world, in all

directions and whether such a dedication is revocable. Even

though it was suggested on behalf of the plaintiff that no

dedication had taken place, the evidence led at the trial is amply

demonstrative of the fact that a dedication had in fact taken

place in the presence of the required number of Buddhist Monks

and after chanting the relevant recitals followed by pouring water

down the finger of the 1 st defendant.

The verbal dedication of the subject matter of the Maha Sanga

had taken place in addition to the notarial gift made by the

plaintiff to the 1 st defendant. Therefore, even if there is a defect

in the deed of gift as contended by the defendant, the verbal

dedication constituting a valid alienation of the property in favour

of the 1st defendant, stands in the way of the plaintiff to obtain a

declaration of ownership against the defendants.

Taking into consideration the approach made by the learned

district judge to resolve the issue, I am of the view that the

N M a N 00 q ID a .... c: QJ E tlO "'C ::s -. -I -M N ("/') M UJ -I -I <! l!) UJ ::..:: u 0 -ID en -a M ,.,... <! u 3

\ I

\ I

t I ! ! I I ! I I f f " f tI

r I!.' t tIJI •! !I i I!! ! i t!

~ !,

Fi" f!! ; 1 ,

~ !IIt ,

!II!

impugned judgement is flawless and needs no intervention of this

court. Hence, the appeal is dismissed without costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

LAj-

N .-t 0 N 00 0 u:) 0 .... c: Q) E Ill) "0

::I ....,

...I -.-t N C"fl .-t UJ ...I ...I « l.9 UJ ::.:: U 0

~ <.0 m -0 .-t ,.... « U 4

}

\ }

II

IIi I

\

! II!i

,i! I£f~ IfI!flII

I !!.

I I ! \ <I,!II l!

fI1