==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI

LANKA

Wallamba Bandanage Gamini,

Accused-appellant.

C.A.Appeal No. 278/09

High Court Hambantota No. 68/04

Before:

Counsel:

Argued &

Decided on:

-Vs-

Republic of Sri Lanka.

Respondent

Sisira • J. de Abrew, J &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J

Dr. Ranjit Fernando for the Accused-Appellant.

Ms. Varunika Hettige SSC for the State.

09.07.2013.

1

Sisira. J. de Abrew, J

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted for raping a girl named

Wedippili Arachchilage Nishani Samanthika and was sentenced to a term of 10

years Rigorous Imprisonment, to pay a fine of Rs. 10,000/- carrying a default

sentence of 06 months Rigorous Imprisonment and to pay a sum of Rs.

100,000/- to the victim carrying a default sentence of 1 year Rigorous

Imprisonment. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence the

accused-appellant has appealed to this Court.

The Learned Counsel appearing for the accused-appellant submits that he

does not challenge the conviction but makes an application to reduce the

sentence. Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as follows.

2

On the day of the incident, the accused-appellant who is a friend of the

victim's father has come to the victim's house and consumed liquor with the

victim's father and two other uncles of the victim. Thereafter the accused-

appellant did not leave the house and slept there. Around 9.30-10.p.m the

accused-appellant went inside the house of the victim and committed sexual

intercourse on the victim who was 12 years old at that time without her

consent and against her will . At the time of the incident she was in Grade six.

The medical evidence has corroborated the evidence of the victim . According to

the opinion expressed by the Doctor, the injury in the hymen was compatible

with vaginal penetration. The accused-appellant in his dock statement has

denied the incident. The accused-appellant being a friend of the victim's father

should be a middle age person at the time of the incident. According to the

evidence the victim used to address the accused -appellant as 'uncle'. The

victim was only a 12 year old child and was a school going child . When we

consider all these matters, we are unable to show any mercy to the accused-

appellant . We therefore refuse to interfere with the sentence imposed by the

learned trial Judge.

3

We affirm the conviction and the sentence and dismiss the appeal. We direct the

Prison Authorities to implement the sentence from the date of this judgment.

Appeal dismissed.

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J

I agree.

Kpm/-

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Judge of the Court of Appeal

4