==== BLOCKS ==== 

•

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

C.A/WRITI App/No.I774/2006

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Decided on

In the matter of an Application for orders in the

nature of writ of Certiorari and Mandamus in

terms of Article 140 of the Constitution of the

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

Kulasekera Mudiyanselage Nimal Kulasekera

of No.1 12, Madapola,

Teldeniya.

Petitioner

vs

I. Parakrama Bandara Ekanayake

Commissioner General of Excise,

Excise Commissioner's Department

28, Staples Street

Colombo 2.

And four (04) others.

S.SRISKANDARAJAH, J .(P/CA)

Ronald Perera

for the Petitioner.

Deepthi Tilakawardana SC

for Respondents

Ig 10 :w~ It> -to- P-O H AI·.J·

Respondents

2

S.Sriskandarajah.J

The Petitioner was first issued with a FL22B Liquor Licence on the 6th of May 1999

for the selling of Beer for consumption within the premises at Vijitha Welendasala

Teldeniya. The said FL 22B Liquor License was transferred to Arjuna Karaliyadda

Building, Kandy Road, Teldeniya on the lOth of April 2000.Thereafter the Petitioner

was issued with a FL 22A Liquor License to carryon the said business at No 12,

New Shopping complex, Teldeniya on 19.02.2004 under the name "Chaminda Beer

Shop".

On the orders of the Commissioner General of Excise an Excise, Inspector with the

sergeant of the Special Investigation Unit of the Excise Station, Kandy entered the

said business premises of the Petitioner on the 29th of June 2006 in order to conduct a

raid and detected the sale of a bottle of beer above the fixed price. The sale of liquor

was temporarily suspended. The Petitioner was served with a charge sheet and the

Petitioner was afforded an opportunity to give explanation.

The Respondents submitted that having considered the explanations tendered and

having regard to the repeated violation of the conditions subjected to which the

license was issued the I st Respondent the Commissioner General had cancel the said

license. As the Petitioner's license was cancel in 2006 for the breach of the conditions

of the license the Petitioner was not entitled for an application form for the year 2007.

The Petitioner in this application has sought a writ of certiorari to quash the said order

of the 1 st Respondent to cancel the Petitioner's Liquor License and has sought a writ

of Mandamus to issue the Petitioner an application form for the FL22A Liquor

License for the year 2007 and to issue a license for 2007.

The issue ofa mandamus will be futile as the license sought is for the year 2007 and it

cannot be issued in the year 2011. The Petitioners license for the year 2006 was

cancelled for a valid reason. The Petitioner was served with charge sheet and after

giving a hearing to the Petitioner the I st Respondent decided to cancel the license of

the Petitioner in terms of Section 27 (I )(b) of the Excise Ordinance. In these

3

circumstance the Petitioner's claim that the said decision of the 15t Respondent is

contrary to law and it was ultra vires is untenable.

For these reasons this court dismisses this application without costs.

/,//~ . ....-/President of the Court of Appeal