==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA (WRIT) - 421/2009

Gunnanselage Don Harischandra, No. 286, Kandy Road, Pahala Biyanwila, Kadawatha

Petitioner Vs. 1. The Divisional Secretary, Divisional Secretariat, Biyagama, Sapugaskanda. 2. Project Officer, The project of National High Ways No. 818A, Sinhapura, Pelawatta, Battaramulla. 3. The Secretary, Ministry of High Ways and Road Development, "Sethsiripaya", Battaramulla. 4. Assessor of the LARC committee 5. Surveyor of the LARC committee 6. Road Development Authority The Divisional Secretary 7. W. A. S. Wickramarachchi Surveyor General, Ministry of High Ways and Road Development, 8. N. K. L. Neththikumara Deputy Director, National Highways Sector Project 9. The Attorney General

Respondents

I

J ; I I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for mandates

in the nature of writs of certiorari and/or

mandamus.

*******

(.A. (Writ) Application No. 421/09

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

1

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

: Mahinda Nanayakkara with

Aruna Jayathilake for the

Petitioner.

Anusha Samaranayake SSC for

the 1 st to 5th and 9th Respondents

Javed Mansoor for 4th to 6th

Respondents.

: 02nd December, 2013.

: 10th March, 2014

I

Ii II1I

Jt !

~ , t r i , Ii

r t ! t I I,

!

~ I I I I

I

Oeepali Wijesundera J.

The petitioner has filed this application seeking the reliefs prayed

for in prayer (b), (c) and (d) of the petition. At the outset both parties

agreed that prayer (c) and (d) have already been granted and the issue

is only regarding prayer (b). Prayer (b) is for a writ of certiorari to grant

relief stated in document marked P15 which is the decision of the

Ministerial Appeal Board of LARC Committee dated 17/01/2009. This

has been marked as 3R1 (a) by the 3rd respondent who chaired the

Ministerial Appeal Board of LARC Committee.

Petitioner's title was accepted by the LARC Committee and

compensation was recommended for damages caused to his property.

The petitioner's argument was apart from the compensation awarded in

P15 which is Rs. 801,6301= he states he is entitle to Rs 1,472,0001=

apart from the statutory compensation and states that the Ministerial

Appeal Board of LARC Committee decision is wrong and contrary to law

and ultra vires and that the said decision has been taken without

considering the relevant facts and documents.

2

I

t I I

t I

f i I! ! I I

Respondent's argument was compensation was agreed upon at

the Ministerial Appeal Board of LARC Committee by the petitioner which

is evident in document marked as P15. But the petitioner failed to keep

his side of the agreement and vacate the premises by 31/01/2009

therefore he is not entitle to the incentive payment of P15 which is a

conditional payment. The respondents further stated that the petitioner

is not entitled to the sums of money referred to in paragraph 21 and 22

of the petition.

Respondents further stated that the petitioner is guilty of laches.

This action was filed seven months after the decision of the LARC

Committee, therefore relief prayed for is misconceived in law and should

be dismissed.

The respondents have admitted petitioner's title and documents

marked P12, P13 and P14 which contains the decisions of the LARC

Committee as to the sums of money payable to the petitioner as

compensation. Respondents have also admitted document marked as

P15. Document marked by 3rd respondent as 3R1 (a) which is not in

dispute states the exgratia amounts payable to the petitioner. In 3R1 (a)

the petitioner has signed at the bottom of the document before the

Ministerial Appeal Board of LARC Committee and agreed to the

3

II 1, I

f III

f, I, f f f ! !

~ r I t ¥

I 1 I I

decision of the Board and he has also agreed to handover vacant

possession of the said land on the stipulated date. In other wards both

parties have agreed the balance payment should be made once the

conditions are fulfilled in 3R1(a).

The petitioner has failed to handover possession before the

stipulated date and the respondents have filed action for eviction. Since

the incentive payment mentioned is conditional and the petitioner has

failed to vacate on the stipulated date he is not entitled to the payments.

The petitioner has not explained the delay in filing this action.

Being aggrieved by the decision of the Ministerial Appeal Board of

LARC Committee he has not filed action against the said decision for 7

months.

For the aforestated reasons I decide that the petitioner's

application is baseless and futile, and the relief prayed for can not be

granted by law. The application of the petitioner is dismissed without

costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

4

fff[!I