==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA Writ 345/14

Chamila Dilanthi Ranasinghe No:29, Jambugasmulla Mw., Nugegoda.

Petitioner

Vs.

The People’s Bank No:75, Sri Chittampalam A Gardiner Avenue, Colombo 02. And 12 others

Respondents

I

1

I

e.A. 345/14 -Writs of Certiorari and Prohibition

Before Vijith K. Malalgoda, P.e.J. (P/CA) &

A.H.M.D. Nawaz,J.

Counsel Faiz Musthapha,P.e. with Senani Dayaratne for the

Petitioner

Palitha Kumarasinghe, P.e. with Mavith de Mel for the

Respondent

Argued &

Decided on 16.10.2014

A.H.M.D. Nawaz,J.

Extensive submissions have been made by both counsel for the petitioner

and the pt Respondent bank.

The petitioner seeks the reliefs claimed at subparagraphs 42 (a) and (b)

as set out in the Petition and the consequent prayer is set out at b), c), d), and

f) of the Petition. By way of this application for writs of Certiorari and

, , I

J

2

the Petitioner seeks to have the mortgage bond bearing No. 293 dated

10.03.2008 invalidated on the ground that the Petitioner had not executed the

said mortgage bond nor did she authorize the 12th Respondent to execute the

same. Developing this argument further, the counsel for the Petitioner

submits that the resolution marked as P17 is consequently void and in the

circumstances a writ of Certiorari is invoked to have the said resolution

quashed. The mortgage bond which is attached to the petition is dated

10.03.2008 and up to the point of making this application before this Court,

this mortgage bond has not been invalidated by any Court of competent

jurisdiction. This mortgage bond bears the signature of the 12th Respondent

as the agent of the petitioner and the Petitioner alleges that she did not

authorize him to sign this mortgage bond as far back as 10.03.2008.

This Court has to observe that this Court is not vested with jurisdiction

in terms of Article 140 of the Constitution to invalidate or declare null and

void the mortgage bond which is marked P18. In Ranasinghe v De Silva 78

N.L.R. 500 there is authority for the proposition that a nullity action for

invalidation of a deed lies in a civil court within three years from the date of

accrual of the cause of action.

r

1I!1 ! t , ! I

I 1

3

I In the circumstances, this Court cannot accept the contention advanced I

by the counsel for the Petitioner that a Court exercising writ jurisdiction

possesses jurisdiction to invalidate mortgage bonds. Accordingly, the

resolution marked P17 which is sought to be impugned on the basis of the

invalidity of the mortgage bond cannot be assailed nor can it be argued that

the resolution marked P17 can be quashed for reasons advanced by the

petitioner in her Petition

In the circumstances we are of the view that the main relief claimed at

(b) and (c) of the prayer cannot be granted. We are also fortified in this view

in view of other factors that militate against the grant of discretionary reliefs

sought. Despite the passage of the resolution by the bank as far back as 2010,

the Petitioner has not taken any steps to vindicate her rights if at all it was

within her rights to move for a writ of Certiorari albeit in a timely manner and

we observe that this Court has dismissed a previous application for a writ on

14,03.2014 ( CA. Writ Application No. 69/2014) on the ground that the bank

resolution had not been attached to the Petition. We observe that though a

copy of a resolution bearing the date 27th August 2010. has now been

annexed to this application, the instant application for refiefs has been

instituted only on 14th October 2014.

I

4

i I This Court is guided by authorities which inhibit the grant of ! I I

discretionary relief on the basis of laches. We bear in mind the jurisprudence

on delay encapsulated by Saleem Marsoof J in Dhahanayake and Others v Sri

Lanka Insurance Corporation Ltd (2005) 1 SrLLR 67. I addition to this bar,

we are also of the view that since the main relief sought in this Petition

namely a writ of certiorari quashing the Bank resolution based on the alleged

nullity of the mortgage bond, cannot be granted by this Court, the interim

relief sought namely an order of restraint on the Respondents from

transferring/auctioning the said property cannot be granted either in as much

as the mortgage bond gives validity to parate execution.

In these circumstances, we are disinclined to issue notice and dismiss

the petition.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Vijith K. Malalgoda, P.c.J. (PICA)

I agree

PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL