==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for Revision

in terms of Article 138 of the Constitution read with Section20(2)ofthe Bail Act No.30 of 1997.

Sulaiman Lebbe Mohamad Uvais

Petitioner-Petitioner

Vs CA (PHC)APN 86/2010 HC Colombo B 1469/2004

Before

Counsel

Argued on

Decided on

Director General The Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery and Corruption.

Respondent-Respondent

Sisira de Abrew J & Anil Gooneratne J

CR de Silva President's Counsel with Vishva Gunaratne

and Dulan Weerawardene instructed by N. Senanayake for the petitioner-petitioner. S uneetha J ayasinghe Deputy Director General Bribery Commission for the Respondent-Respondent

25.11.2010

3.2.2011

2

Sisira de Abrew J.

The accused in this case was indicted on four counts under the

Bribery Act. The 1st and 2nd counts are soliciting Rs.50,OOO offences

punishable under sections 19(b) and 19(c) of the Bribery Act. The 3rd and 4th

counts are accepting Rs.50,OOOI-, offences punishable under sections 19(b)

and 19( c) of the Bribery Act. He was convicted on all four counts. On the 1st

count he was sentenced to a tenn of three years rigorous imprisonment (RI)

and to pay a fine of RS.50001- carrying a default sentence of one year

imprisonment. Same punishment was imposed on count No.3. In addition to

the above punishment he was ordered to Rs.50,OOOI- as a penalty carrying a

default sentence of two years imprisonment. The learned trial judge however

did not impose a punishment on count No.2 and 4. The accused has

preferred an appeal against the said conviction and sentence. The petitioner,

by this petition moves Court to release the accused on bail pending appeal.

Learned President's Counsel for the petitioner drawing our attention to page

14 of the judgment contended that the learned trial Judge having first

rejected the evidence of the complainant later relied on his evidence. He

therefore contended that the learned trial Judge had not read the judgment

when he signed it. He therefore contended that the learned trial Judge when

delivering the judgment had not followed the procedure established by law

and this was in violation of Section 283(1) of the Criminal Procedure Code

(CPC) and Article 13(4) of the Constitution. He therefore contended that the

accused had not had a fair trial and this should be considered as an

exceptional ground to reiease the accused on bail. I now advert to this

contention. The allegation that the judge had not read the judgment when he

signed it is a serious one. Therefore Court must consider whether such an

3

allegation can in fact be accepted. Once a judge places his signature on his

judgment he does so after reading it. It is impossible to believe a judge who

has wealth of experience in conducting trials and writing judgments would

sign a judgment without reading it. I therefore reject this contention.

Learned PC next contended that in any event the judgment will

have to be set aside because of the above defect. I now advert to this

contention. Although the learned trial Judge rejected the evidence of the

complainant at page 14 of the judgment, he, at page 24, 25, and 26 accepted

his evidence. Whether the above observation is sufficient to vitiate the

conviction or not must be decided by the Court of Appeal hearing the main

appeal. Even if this is considered to be a misdirection Court of Appeal

hearing the main appeal is empowered to affirm the conviction under

provisos to Section 334 of the Criminal Procedure Code and Article 138 of

the Constitution after considering the evidence of the case. The Court

hearing an application to release an accused person on bail pending appeal

should not pre-empt the hearing of the appeal. This view is supported by the

judgment of the Supreme Court in Attorney General Vs Ediriweera [2006]

BLR page 12 wherein Justice Thilakawardene remarked thus: "In any evevnt

our Courts have held consistently, that in an application for bail after

conviction, the appellate Court should not pre-empt the hearing of the

substantive appeal." For these reasons, I reject the above contention of the

learned PC.

Learned PC next contended that since the appeal has, so far, not been

listed for hearing and that the accused has been sentenced to a term of six

years RI the accused should be released on bail. In my view the delay in

4

hearing the appeal cannot be considered as an exceptional ground to release

an accused on bail. This view is supported by the judgment of the Supreme

Court in Attorney General Vs Ediriweera (supra) wherein Justice

Thilakawardene observed: "In any event delay in listing of cases is not an

exceptional circumstance as it is common to all cases." It is now settled law

that an application for bail pending appeal can be allowed only upon

establishment of exceptional circumstances. This view is supported by the

judgment of the Supreme Court in Attorney General Vs Ediriweera (supra)

wherein Supreme Court held: "the norm is that bail after conviction is not a

matter of right but would be granted only under exceptional circumstances."

In Rex V s Muthuretty 54 NLR 43 Swan J held "that in a bail pending

appeal, Court will not grant bail as a rule. Bail is granted only in exceptional

circumstances. "

I have gone through the petition filed by the petitioner and

considered the submission made on his behalf. In my view the petitioner has

not established exceptional circumstances to release the accused on bail.

F or the aforementioned reasons, I dismiss the petition of the

petitioner.

Petition dismissed.

Judge of the Cou eal

Anil Gooneratne J.

I agree.

(p)~~~~ Judge of the Court of Appeal