==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA.

CA 869/96 {F}

D.C.Colombo Case No. 4916/ZL

Ven. Padiyapalalle Seevali Thera, No. 10, Buddhist Centre Road, Colombo 10. Defendant-Appellant Vs. Ven.Hagoda Vajira Thero, NO.l0.Buddhdist Centre Road, Colombo 10.

Plaintiff-Respondent.

BEFORE : A.W.A. SALAM, J. COUNSEL : J .C. Boange for the defendant-Appellant. Kuvera de Zoysa with Asiri Dissanayake for the Substituted Plaintiff-Respondent. ARGUED ON : 01.03.2011. WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS TENDERED ON 26.05.2011. DECIDED ON : 28.08.2012

A W Abdus Salam, J

I!"'jor sake of convenience the parties to this appeal are T referred to in the rest of this judgement in the same

manner as they are referred in the caption to the original

action. The plaintiff sued the defendant for a declaration

that he is the Viharadhipathy of the temple known as

"Buddhist Centre" (hereinafter referred to as the "centre")

and situated at No 7, Buddhist Centre Road, Colombo 10

1

and ejectment of the defendant from the said "Buddhist

Centre". The defendant filed answers countersuing the

plaintiff for a similar declaration and ejectment of the

plaintiff. The defendant Yen Hirivaddala Jinaratana died

pending the determination of the case in the district

court and Yen Padiyapalalla Seevali was appointed in

that behalf as the substituted-defendant. The learned

district judge at the conclusion of the trial by judgement

dated 1.8.1996 held inter alia that the plaintiff is the

Viharadhipathy of the temple in question and that the

defendant is liable to be ejected therefrom and the

present appeal arises from the said judgement.

The background to the dispute is that Yen. Hagoda

Daminda and Yen. Thelumbara Pavarakeerthi jointly

developed the Buddhist Centre and executed a written

agreement making Yen. Hagoda Daminda the

Viharadhipathi of the said Centre during his lifetime and

Yen. Thelumbara Pavarakeerthi the successor on the

demise of the former. The agreement further provided

that upon the demise of both of them their senior most

pupil Yen. Hagoda Vajira to succeed to the office of

Viharadhipathi.

In terms of the agreement referred to above on the demise

of both monks, who jointly established the "centre"

2

Ven.Hagoda Vajira succeeded to the office of

Viharadhipathi on 7th September, 1975. The appointment

of Ven.Hagoda Vajira has also been ratified at the Sanga

Sabhava on 5th October 1975. The plaintiffs action is

based on the premise that the defendant obstructed him

in the discharge of his functions as the chief incumbent

or Viharadhipathy of the Buddhist Centre.

In the answer, the defendant maintained that Yen.

Thelumbara Pavarakeerth prior to his demise executed

deed bearing No 3 attested by Walter Wimalachandra

appointing 12 of his pupils to succeed to the post of

Viharadhipathi of the Centre after his demise. The

defendant further pleaded in his answer that three of the

pupils named in the deed bearing No.3 either disrobed or

demised making him entitled to succeed to the

incumbency.

The matter of the dispute thereupon proceeded to trial

and the learned district judge held inter alia that the

plaintiff is the Viharadhipathy of the Centre in question

and the defendant is liable to be ejected. The main issue

that came to be decided in the lower court was whether

the plaintiff has rightly succeeded to the office of

Viharadhipathy of the Centre under and by virtue of the

agreement bearing No 10673.

3

It is quite significant that in 1537 jL (P4) the plaintiff in

this case has sued 12 persons including Ven Hirivaddala

Jinaratana who was the 4th defendant in that case. One

of the findings of the learned district judge in that case

was the agreement marked as P3 in this case is valid and

the plaintiff in this case is the most senior in pupillage.

The appeal preferred by the 1st defendant- appellant

against the judgement in 1537 jL has been abated

non-prosecution. The learned district judge had come

almost to the same decision as in the case of 1537 jL with

regard to the validity of P3.

As regards the validity of D2 the learned district judge

has come to the specific fmding that since there IS a

prohibition against the revocation of the terms and

conditions laid down in P3, the document marked D2 is

of no force or avail in the light of the agreement P3 and

therefore the plaintiff should be considered as rightly

being in the office of Viharadhipathy.

Based on the oral testimony adduced and the supporting

documents produced by the plaintiff, the learned district

judge entertained no doubt (on a balance of probability)

that the plaintiff is the Viharadhipathy of the Centre and

that the defendant has no right whatsoever to dispute the

4

right of the plaintiff to be in such office. Having

considered the evidence adduced at the trial and the

reasoning adopted, I am unable to subscribe to the view

that the findings and the impugned judgement are

inconsistent with the evidence led at the trial and/or

contrary to the law applicable. In the circumstances, it is

my considered view that the appeal preferred by the

deceased defendant merits no favourable consideration.

Accordingly, the appeal stand dismissed. There shall be

no costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

WC/-

5