==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA PHC 1 08/2011

PHC Balapitiya 814/10

Damith Kodithuwakku, Siththragoda, Amugoda

RESPONDENT-PETITIONER-APPELLANT Vs

Pinnaduwa Hewa Samson, Bogahawatta, Amugoda

Karunawathie Seneviretna, Bogahawatta, Amugoda

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDENTS-RESPONDENTS

BEFORE: A.W.A SALAM & DEEP ALI WIJESUNDARE JJ

COUNSEL:

Rohan Sahabandu PC for the appellant and D M G

Dissanayaka for the respondents.

ARGUED

DECIDED ON

: 17.10.2012.

: 17.01.2013.

f IIIf tII

r, l' f

A W A SALAM, J T

he complainant-respondent-respondents (Respondents) filed

information under Section 66 (1) (b) of the Primary Court

Procedure Act complaining of a land dispute affecting the breach of

peace citing the respondent-petitioner-appellant (appellant) as a

party to the dispute. Thereafter, the appellant filed his affidavit

annexing four documents and then the respondents tendered

counter affidavit appending identical number of documents. The

learned Magistrate, thereupon inquired into the dispute and made

order that the respondents' are entitled to the possession of the

property in dispute.

Being aggrieved by the said order of the learned Magistrate the

appellant invoked the revisionary jurisdiction of the Provincial High

Court of the area to have the said order set aside. The learned High

Court Judge at the conclusion of the inquiry into the revision

application held inter alia that the petitioner has failed to establish

any valid grounds to set aside the said order and dismissed the

revision application. This appeal has been preferred against the

said order of the learned High Court Judge.

The mmn argument advanced by the appellant in this appeal is

that the affidavit filed by the respondents under section 66 (1) (b)

cannot be regarded as an affidavit filed under section 66 (3) of the

Primary Court Procedure Act and therefore the interpates order

made by the learned Magistrate is bad in law. The learned counsel

for the respondents has submitted that the provisions of section 66

(3) applies to a situation where the information is filed under

section 66 ( 1) (A) of the Primary Court Procedure Act, and the

present case being filed under section 66 (1) (B) by tendering an

affidavit at the instance of a private individual the requirement to

III

Ii

III

II

file affidavit under section 67 (3) of the Primary Court Procedure

Act does not become necessary. For purpose of ready reference the

said Section of the Primary Court Procedure Act is reproduced

below ...

66(3) On the date on which the parties are produced under

subsection ( 1) or on the date fixed for their appearance under

that subsection, the court shall appoint a day which shall not

be later than three weeks from the date on which the parties

were produced or the date fixed for their appearance directing

the parties and any persons interested to file affidavits setting

out their claims and annexing thereto any documents (or

certified copies thereof) on which they rely.

Section 66 (b) ( 1) of the Primary Court Procedure Act which entitles

a private individual (other than a police officer) to initiate

proceedings under Chapter VII of the Act reads as follows ...

66 (b) (i) - Any party to such dispute may file an information

by affidavit in such Primary Court setting out the facts and

the relief sought and specifying as respondents the names

and addresses of the other parties to the dispute and then

such court shall by its usual process or by registered post

notice the parties named to appear in court on the day

specified in the notice-such day being not later than two

weeks from the day on which the information was filed.

On a proper reading of the entirety of Section 66, it is quite clear

that section 66 (3) applies to a situation where the information is

filed under section 66 ( 1) (A) of the Act. However, when the

!ll

~ ¥

f

~ f !

tl I

jurisdiction of the court is invoked by a private individual upon

filing an affidavit in terms of section 66 (1) (B) of the Act the

necessity to file an affidavit under section 66 (3) does not arise. In

the result the contention made on behalf of the appellant that the

respondent should be considered as having made default in filing

affidavit and documents under section 66 (3) of the Primary Court

Procedure Act, is unsubstantiated and therefore merits no serious

consideration.

In the circumstances, the legal objection raised against the

determination of the learned Magistrate and the decision of the

learned High Court Judge on the revision application is rejected

and the appeal dismissed without costs.

A W A Salam, J

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Deepli Wijesundera, J

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

NR/

\

i I1

1II l I

t

'

I

'