==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA Case No: C.A.376/2000

1. Dharmapriya Rupasinghe, Buthkanda, Boraluwge -Aina. 2. Kodithuwakku Arachchige Wijedasa, Buthkanda, Boraluwge- Aina. 3. Alupotha Gamage Podihamy,(Deceased), Buthkanda, Boraluwge -Aina.

Defendant-Appellants

Vs.

Sisira Kumara Buthkanda, Boraluwge -Aina. Kodithuwakku Arachchige Chandrarathna, Buthkanda, Boraluwge -Aina.

Plaintiff-Respondent

I

t

l

J J

CA 376/2000 (F)

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

Upaly Abeyrathne, J.

DC-Embilipitiya-4949/L

Upaly Abeyrathne, J.

Anuruddha Dharmarathne with Indika

Jayaweera for the 1 st, 2nd & SUbstituted

3A Defendant Appellants

A.M.E.B. Atapattu for the Respondent

21.02.2014

Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the

issues framed by the Defendant-AppeLlant have been left

unanswered by the learned District Judge. He further

submitted that the Defendant-Appellant has raised the

issues Nos. 15-25 and the learned District Judge has

accepted the said issues.

I have perused the proceedings of the case and the

judgment. The Appellant and the Respondent have raised 25

issues. The learned District Judge has not answered the

issues framed by the Appellant. Hence the judgment of the

learned Additional District Judge is not in conformity with

the requisites of Section 187 of the Civil Procedure Code.

1

I

II [I I

II

\J,

,

1 j j 1 1 1

1 i I I ! I I I I

,

This Court has abundantly stressed that the trial

judges should deliver their judgments in compliance with

the provisions contained in Section 187 of the Civil

Procedure Code. When writing a judgment he should safely

consider the points for determination and should record his

decision thereon. It must be born in mind of the trial

judge that the issues have been accepted by him should not

be left unanswered. He is bound by a legal duty under

section 187 of the Civil Procedure Code to deliver a proper

and complete judgment.

In the present case also the learned District

Judge has delivered his judgment blatantly violating the

provisions contained in Section 187 of the Civil Procedure

Code (Cap 86) Section 187 of the Code stipulates that:

"The judgment shall contain a concise statement of the

case, the points for determination, the decision thereon,

and the reasons for such decision." It is sad to note that

in his judgment the learned District judge has not stated

the points for determination and the decision thereon.

In the case of Dona Lucihamy Vs Ciciliyanahamy 59

NLR 214 it was held that "Bare answers, without reasons, to

issues or points of contest raised in a trial are not a

compliance with the requirements of section 187 of the

Civil Procedure Code." In the case of Warnakula Vs. Ramani

2

f 1 1 1

;

Jayawardane [1990] 1 SLR 206 it was held that "Bare answers

to issues without reasons are not in compliance with the

requirements of Section 187 of the Civil Procedure Code.

The evidence germane to each issue must be reviewed or

examined. The judge must evaluate and consider the totality

of the evidence. Giving a short summary of the evidence of

the parties and witnesses and stating that he prefers to

accept the evidence of one party without giving reasons are

insufficient."

Hence I am of the view that the failure of the

trial judge to answer the issues framed by the Appellant

has caused a miscarriage of justice.

Therefore I set aside the judgment and decree of

the learned District Judge dated 12.07.2000 and allow the

prayer (1) of the petition of appeal of the Appellant

wi thout cost. I accord Lngly order a re-trial. The learned

District Judge of Embilipitiya is directed to hear and

conclude the case expeditiously.

Re-trial ordered.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

LA/-

3

! I

\

J