==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA Appeal No.1000/98(F)

DC Matale 4505/L

Karupaiya Gandimathi No: 46, Raththota, Matale.

Complainant Vs. Abeysekara Arachchilage Abeyrathne No 653, Mandandawela, Matale.

Defendant

C.A.Appeal No.1000/98(F) D.C.Matale 4505/L

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

K.T.Chitrasiri, J.

K.T.Chitrasiri, J.

Parties are absent and unrepresented.

01.02.2013

Registrar of this Court has sent notices to both parties on several occasions

directing them to be present in this Court to proceed with the appeal. No party

has come to Court on any of those occasions. When this matter was mentioned

on 28.11.12, it is recorded that the notice sent to the Registered Attorney of the

appellant had been returned with an endorsement that the registered Attorney-

had left the given address. Even after the last date, the Registrar of this Court

has sent a notice to the plaintiff-appellant by his letter dated 05.12.12, directing

her to be present in this Court today. The said letter has also been returned

with an endorsement that the appellant has left the country. Therefore, it is clear

that the plaintiff-appellant is not prosecuting this appeal diligently.

This is an appeal, seeking to set aside the judgment dated 09.10.1998 of

the learned District Judge of Matale. In the said petition of appeal, it is stated

1

. '

that the learned District Judge had not properly evaluated the evidence led

before him.

This is an action to demarcate the boundary between the two lands

referred to in the two schedules found in the plaint dated 04.06.1992. The

learned District Judge having considered the evidence as to the boundary

between the two lands, particularly the evidence of the two surveyors had come

to the conclusion that the defendant had not altered the boundary between the

two lands. Learned District Judge having analyzed the evidence in this regard

and also having considered the evidence as to the damages, claimed by the

plaintiff had dismissed the plaint.

I do not see any wrong on the part of the learned District Judge when he

came to his conclusion and therefore there is no reason to interfere with his

findings. Accordingly the appeal of the appellant is dismissed with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

KLP/-

2

i ! ' I l! f Ii I ll

~ II( I I l

f