==== BLOCKS ==== 

\

i I ,

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

Case No.CA/Writ 269/2012

In the matter of an application for writ of

mandamus and writ of certiorari under

Article 140 of the Constitution.

Ariyarathna Ekenayake

Ekanayake Saw Mills

Hellala

Middeniya

Petitioner

Vs

1. Katuwana Pradeshiya Sabha

Katuwana

2. Ariyadasa Weerasinghe

The Chairman

Katuwana Pradeshiya Sabha

Katuwana.

3. The Chairman

Central Environmental Authority

Battaramulla.

4. B.M.U.D. Basnayake

Secretary

5.

Ministry of Environment

Rajamalwatta Road

Battaramulla.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

Respondents

f[

I

fft

j

l

; I I ! I

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued on

Decided on

S.Sriskandarajah,/

2

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (PICA)

W.M.M.MALINIE GUNARATNE, J

P.K.Prince Perera with Siripala Amarasekara,

for the Petitioner

Yuresha Fernando SC

for the Respondents

15.07.2013

01.08.2013

The Petitioner submitted that for the purpose of carrying on a timber business he had

obtained approval from the Chairman of Kaduwela Pradeshiya Sabha the 2nd Respondent. The

2nd Respondent has also issued an Environmental Protection Licence for a period of 2 years on

30/02/2006, to be opperative until 30/01/2008, and thereafter it was extended for another

period of 3 years from 2009 to 2012. The Petitioner further submitted that the 2nd Respondent,

by letter dated 9/05/2011, informed him that his Environmental Licence was cancelled, being

aggrieved by the said decision, he submitted an appeal to the Secretary, Ministry of

Environment, the 4th Respondent, by letter dated 20/05/2011. An inquiry was held by the

Assistant Secretary of the Ministry of Environment. In the said inquiry, the 2nd Respondent, the

Chairman of the Kaduwela Pradeshiya Sabha, did not participate, but the Pradeshiya Sabha has

filed written submissions for the consideration of the Inquiring Officer. After considering the

submissions of the Petitioner and the Pradeshiya Sabha, the 4th Respondent had issued an order

dated 8/02/2002, rejecting the appeal. The Petitioner in these proceedings has sought a writ of

certiorari to quash the decision of the 2nd Respondent to cancel his Environmental Licence and

also has sought a writ of certiorari to quash the decision of the Secretary to the Ministry of

Environment refusing the appeal of the Petitioner.

The Respondents submitted that the authority to issue Environmental Licence was

devolved to the local authorities and in this case the 2nd Respondent has issued the

Environmental Protection Licence to the Petitioner, one of the conditions of the said

Environmental Protection Licence is that the 2nd Respondent will inspect the premises from time

3

to time and give directions in relation to the implications of the said Environmental Protection

Licence. In this instant case the Respondent submitted that there were several complaints from

the residents of the neighbourhood complaining that the sound and dust pollution are causing

disturbance to the neighbourhood and causing environmental pollution, and in view of this

complains an inspection was carried out by the employees of the 2nd Respondent, and the

Respondent submitted that the employees, when they went for inspection, were also threatened

and prevented from inspecting the said premises, and as such, they were not in a position to

exactly assess the pollution that is caused by the said factory and to give adequate directions to

the Petitioner to comply with, and in those circumstances the Respondents have no option but

to cancel the Environmental Protection Licence. The submission of the Petitioner that the

cancellation of the said Environmental Protection Licence is arbitrary, has no merit, it appears

that several directions were given by the 2nd Respondent to the Petitioner to comply with the

Environmental Protection Licence but it has not been complied with by the Petitioner. In these

circumstances the Petitioner's appeal from the decision of the 2nd Respondent to cancel the said

Environmental Protection Licence was rejected by the Secretary, Ministry of Environment. The

fact that the 2nd Respondent was not physically present in the appeal inquiry will not affect the

appeal proceedings as in the appeal proceedings the 2nd Respondent has submitted sufficient

material by way of written submissions and as such, the Appellant body had sufficient material

to rely in dismissing the appeal of the Petitioner. Therefore, the submission of the Petitioner

that the 2nd Respondent's absence in the said appeal proceedings had affected the outcome of

the appeal has no merit as the 2nd Respondent has submitted written submissions giving the

grounds on which he has cancelled the said Environmental Protection Licence. In these

circumstances the Petitioner has not established any grounds to issue a writ of certiorari to

quash the decision of the 2nd Respondent or the decision of the 4th Respondent in appeal.

Therefore, this Court dismisses this application without costs.

President of the Court of Appeal

W.M.M.Malinie Gunaratne, J

I agree,

Judge of the Court of Appeal