==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A. (Writ) No. 478/2011

Lakjaya Micro Finance Limited No. 35/3 C, Samuddrasanna Road, Mount Lavinia.

PETITIONER Vs. Commissioner General of Labour Department of Labour, Colombo 05. The Assistant Commissioner of Labour Labour office - Colombo (West), Department of Labour, Colombo 05. M. Dinesh Dilshan Kooray 5/18, Upali Mawatha, Wadduwa. W. A. Lakshan 218, Kudabuthgamuwa, Mullariyawa Nawa Nagaraya A. S. S. Perera 32/3, Madinnagoda, Rajagiriya. A. J. A. Rukma 377/3, Weliwala Road, Kotikawatta, Aogoda

RESPONDENTS

C.A. Writ Application No.478/2011

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED &

DECIDED ON

S. Sriskandarajah,J. (PICA) & P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

Avindra Rodrigo with Shanaka Gunasekera for the Petitioner.

F. Jameel,D.S.G. for the 1st & 2nd Respondents

3rd, 4th, 5th and 6th Respondents are absent and Unrepresented

29.01.2013

.S.Sriskandaraiah,J. (P/CA)

The 4th ' 5th and Respondents are absent and

unrepresented. They were noticed on 18.08.2011 by registered post and

according to the minute of 30.08.2011 only the 4th Respondent was

represented by counsel and thereafter no objection was filed or the 3rd to

6th Respondents did not participated in these proceedings.

Learned Counsel for the Petitioner submitted that the 3rd to 6th

Respondents were employees of the Petitioner Company which was

situated at Rajagiriya and the Head Office where the 3rd to the 6th

Respondents were attached to was shifted from Rajagiriya to Mt.

Lavinia. In that back ground, the 3rd to the 6th Respondents complained

to the Commissioner of Labour that their services were constructively

terminated and they have complained to the Commissioner that the Head

2

Office in which they were employed was transferred from Rajagiriya to

Mt. Lavinia without their knowledge. After an inquiry, the Commissioner

had come to a finding on the basis that the employment of these

employees were terminated without seeking permission under Section (2)

of the Termination of Employment (Special Provisions) Act and therefore

the Petitioner has violated the Provisions of the said Act and therefore

made an order under Section (6) to reinstate the 3rd to the 5th

Respondents with back wages. This order was made on 04.07.2011 and

the learned Counsel who is appearing for the Petitioner informs Court

that in view of this order,+ the 3rd to the 5th Respondents had not

reported to work for the Petitioner to comply with the order of the

Commissioner. As the 3rd to the 5th Respondents have not reported for

work and the Petitioner was not in a position to comply with that order,

Court observes that it is futile for this Court to quash the said order

In view of all the above circumstances, this Court dismisses this

application without costs.

PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Javathilaka,J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Cr/-