==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C A 139/2014 Writ

In the matter of an application for a mandate in the nature of a Writ of Certiorari, under and in terms of Article 140 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

A. W. Manjula Manori Gunawardena,

110114, Temple Road,

Maharagama.

Petitioner

Vs.

1. Ranjith Chandrasekera, Director-National Schools, Ministry of Education, "Isurupaya" Bttaramulla. 2. W.D.P.K. Samarasinghe, Principal, Devi Balika Vidyalaya, Colombo 08. 3. Anura Dissanayake, The Secretary to the Ministry of Education, "Isurupaya" Battaramulla.

Respondents

1

I \ I ! II

I,

, I I l

BEFORE

COUNSEL

SUPPORTED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, 1.

2

UPAL Y ABEYRATHNE, 1.

Faiz Musthapa PC with Shantha layawardena for the Petitioner

Arjuna Obeysekera DSG for the Respondents

29.05.2014

11.06.2014

By a letter dated 15.07. 2011, the Petitioner was appointed as a Class

3 Grade 1 Graduate Teacher of the Sri Lanka Teachers Service and placed at the

Devi Balika Vidyalaya, Colombo 8, with effect from 15.07.2011 by the Secretary

to the Ministry of Education (the 3rd Respondent). Said letter of appointment has

been produced marked P 1. The Petitioner has averred that over a dispute arisen

upon an assignment to travel to Nuwara Eliya as the teacher in charge of several

female students participating at a chess competition for school children scheduled

to be held in Nuwara Eliya for 03 consecutive dates, the Petitioner was handed

over a letter dated 01.04.2014 (P 4) issued by the 1 st Respondent Director -

National Schools transferring the Petitioner from Devi Balika Vidyalaya to

Lumbini Vidyalaya, Colombo 05, with effect from 07.04.2014 on the basis of

exigencies of service.

The Petitioner's position was that the said transfer letter issued by the

1 st Respondent was ultra vires and illegal because the 1 st Respondent has no

authority to transfer teachers under the procedural rules of the Public Service

Commission (PSC) on Appointment, Promotion and Transfer of Public Servant.

\ J

3

It is common ground that by the Gazette Extraordinary notification

bearing No 1733/52 dated 25th November 2011 Powers of the PSC to Transfer,

Disciplinary Control and Extension of Services beyond the age of 57 years of

Teachers of Sri Lanka Teachers' Service has been delegated to the Secretary to the

Ministry of the Minister in Charge of the Education / an Additional Secretary

nominated by the Secretary and approved by the PSC. It is also common ground

that said rules does not empower any kind of delegation of powers of PSC to an

officer other than the officers mentioned in column II of the said Gazette

Notification.

It is important to note that there is no any documentation before court

which confers any authority to the 1 st Respondent to issue the impugned letter P 4.

Also it must be noted that the said letter P 4 does not reflect that the 3 rd Respondent

to whom the power of transfer has been delegated by the PSC has approved and

adopted the same.

In the said premise it is crystal clear that the Petitioner could have

been SUbjected to the said transfer in the service only by the Secretary to the

Ministry of the Minister in Charge of the Education or by an Additional Secretary

nominated by the Secretary and approved by the PSC. Hence no doubt that the 1 st

Respondent's said letter of transfer of the petitioner (P 4) is ultra vires and illegal

until the contrary is proved.

The learned counsel for the Respondents submitted that Article 61 A

of the Constitution is a complete bar and a jurisdictional ouster and only the

Supreme Court have jurisdiction to inquire in to the decisions made by the PSC. In

the present case the impugned letter has been sent to the Petitioner by the 1 st

Respondent Director, National Schools, who was not an Officer falling within the

\ ,

\

4

category of Officers named in the said Extraordinary Gazette notification to whom

the power has been delegated by the PSC. In the case of Abeywickrema Vs.

Pathirana [1984] 1 Sri L.R. 215 (SC) it was held that "the provisions of Article 56

(5) may be invoked or applied only when the order or decision in regard to any

matter concerning the appointment, transfer, dismissal or disciplinary control of a

Public Officer is made, inter alia, by a "Public Officer" to whom the Public Service

Commission or any Committee thereof has delegated, in terms of Article 58 (1) of

the Constitution, the powers of appointment, transfer, dismissal & disciplinary

control of any category of Public Officers. The burden of establishing that there

has been no such express delegation to the Regional Director of Education, Galle,

is on the petitioner. If the petitioner establishes that there has been no express

delegation, then the 1 st respondent may lead evidence that there has been an

implied delegation of the powers referred to in Article 58 (1)."

In the said circumstances I am of the view that the petitioner is

entitled to the reliefs as prayed for in prayer (a) and (d) of the Petition. Hence the

Registrar of this court is directed to issue notice on the Respondents and to issue an

interim order suspending the decision of the 1 st Respondent reflected in P 4 to

transfer the Petitioner from Devi Balika Vidyalaya to Lumbini Vidyalaya until the

final hearing and determination of this application.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

i

i I ! t t