==== BLOCKS ==== 

I j , !

J i 1 ; , I I I ! I I I I I I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 285/2008 (Writ)

Mawathagama Pradeshiya Sabha

Rambukkana Road,

Mawathagama.

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. Hon. Janaka Bandara Tennakoon

Minister of Lands and Land Development

Ministry of Lands and Land Development

80/5, Rajamalwatte Avenue,

Battaramulla.

2. Mr. T. Asoka Peiris

Secretary,

Minister of Lands and Land Development

Ministry of Lands and Land Development

80/5, Rajamalwatte Avenue,

Battaramulla.

3. Basnayake Nilame Maha Vishnu Devalaya,

Maha Vishnu Devalaya,

Kandy.

4. The Divisional Secretary

The Divisional Secretariat,

Mawathagama.

1

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

5. Palitha Sarath Kumara

Tissa Timber Mill,

Kandy Road,

Mawathagma.

6. R.D. Sirisena

Oththe Kade

Kahapathwala.

7. S.S.H. Auto Mobile and Investment

Company {pvt.} Ltd.,

8th Mile Post,

Kandy Road,

Mawathagma.

RESPONDENTS

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Deepali Wijesundera J.

Nihal Jayamanne P.e., with Anandalal Nanayakkara and M. Jayamanne.

Instructed by Gaithri de Silva for Petitioner

W. D. Weeraratne for 5th & 6th Respondents

W. Dayaratne P.e. with R. Jayawardena for i

h Added Respondent

Chaya Sri Nammuni S.e. for 1st - 3rd Respondents

22.05.2013

30.08.2013

2

, III!

II"

!

~ if II ! I

t[

1!IIII

,-If t t !

t,

1I

3

GOONERATNE J.

The Petitioner in this application is the Mawathagama Pradeshiya

Sabha. A Writ of Certiorari and Prohibition has been sought to quash the divesting

order marked 'Xl' (divesting of land which is the subject of this application),

contained in gazette dated 28.2.2007. Prohibition is sought more particularly,

prohibiting the divestiture of the entirety or part of the acquired land being lot 'EI

in plan P13. Certain other interim relief as well as an order to hand over

possession as in sub paragraph ( c) of the prayer to the petition are also sought in

this application. I would at the very outset refer to the facts of this case as

presented to court in the affidavit of the Petitioner and the submissions of

learned counsel for Petitioner. ,

The land in question is described as URajawatte" was acquired in li ! I,terms of the Land Acquisitions Act on or about 1986 (vide Gazette under Section t

38 marked P1A and shown in plan P1B). Assistant Government Agent, !IMawathagama took over possession of the land in question and had handed over

the said lot 'E' in plan P1B to the Pilessa Development Council (P2). Petitioner

became the successor of the above council with the enactment of Act No. 15 of

1987. Petitioner pleads that it has carried out several improvements and

i I !-I ... j j

~ 'i a t ) 1 I } I

J I j I I I I !

I

I

4

developments on the land in question, for the benefit of the people within the

area of the Petitioner's Pradeshiya Sabha. Petitioner state a public library was set

up for the use of the public and it is one of the best libraries in the Kurunegala

District (Grade II library). The land in question, borders the Kurunegala - Kandy

road. The original acquisition remain unchallenged. By documents P3A & P3B it is

shown that the Petitioner was engaged in a concrete work industry and that it

was shifted to another part of the same location. Petitioner's position is that until

January 2008 Petitioner improved and developed the said land and was in

possession of the entirety of lot IE' in the above plan and carried on the library

and concrete works as stated above. PS indicates it was the only land owned by

the Petitioner within the Mawathagama town. The grievance of the Petitioner

commence with the receipt of letter P4 and P4a. The 4th Respondent informed the

Petitioner that an inquiry was being held on 10.8.2006 by the Parliamentary

Committee on Public Petitions into a complaint made by the Sth Respondent and a

request to send Petitioners representation. P4 refer to providing alternate land

and there was nothing about the divestiture. The events that took place

thereafter need to be reproduced verbatim in the manner stated in the

Petitioner's written submissions as follows:

5

(a) Accordingly, the Secretary of the Petitioner Sabha and the Director, Works of the

Petitioner were present before the said Committee Public Petitions on 10.08.2006 and

had informed the said Parliamentary Committee on Public Petitions of the development

that had been carried out on the said land by the Petitioner. However, the Petitioner

states that, at the said inquiry the said Committee on Public Petitions, had arrived at a

decision to recommend the divestiture of part of Lot E whilst retaining the portion of

the land area upon which the said library was situated. Even though the inquiry was for

the purpose of considering alternate land as per the letter P4.

(b) The Chairman of the Petitioner Sabha and others immediately protested against the said

decision. (In this respect, the attention of Your Lordship's Court is respectfully drawn to

documents marked ~~and P7A- PK

(c) Thereafter by letter dated 11.09.2006 the Secretary Committee on Public Petitions has

informed the Secretary, Ministry of Agrarian Services of the said decision i.e to pay the

Complainant compensation in respect of the portion of land on which the

Mawathagama Public Library is situated and divest the remainder of the said land

(document annexed to the statement of Objections of the 1st Respondent - marked

1R2)

(d) Thereafter by letter dated 04.10.2006 (1R2A) the Director Lands, has advised the

Divisional Secretary, Mawathagama to inter alia subdivide the land and forward a copy

to him accordingly. The Petitioner states that by this act the Respondents have sought

to subdivide a single piece of acquired land with the intention of divesting part of it. This

the law does not permit. It is further respectfully submitted that in carrying out the said

arbitrary subdivision a great part of the land acquired has been identified for divestiture,

and so divested with no justification whatsoever. The result of the said subdivision has

been that, by simply drawing an arbitrary line, the vehicular access to the said library

and part of the septic rank have fallen within the area to be divested and the land on

which the concrete works of the Petitioner Sabha has been divested.

(e) The 1st Respondent thereafter, with no notice to the Petitioner whatsoever and in total

breach of the principles of natural justice and acting in an extremely arbitrary and

I

j

j

6

capricious and unlawful manner published an order purporting to be in terms of Section

39(A) of the Land Acquisition Act, divesting a part of Lot E acquired originally in 1986

and which until January, 2008 was in the possession of and being developed by the

Petitioner. This is after the Petitioner had expended considerable resources in

developing the said land and putting it to public purpose.

(f) A copy of the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1486/17 dated 28.02.2007 containin? the

purported 'order of divestiture' in terms of Section 39A of the Land Acquisition Act is

marked X. The said Order ~ identifies the divested portion of land as Lot No. 44 in the

Revised Final Village Plan bearing No. 877 dated 08.01.2007 being 0.174 hectares in

extent. A copy of the said revised plan dated 08.10.2007 is marked y. It is respectfully

submitted that, the Plan y clearly indicates that there are two permanent buildings on

the divested land (Lot No.44) and the legend to the said Plan clearly states that these

permanent buildings are those constructed by the Mawathagama Pradeshiya Sabha -

the Petitioner.

My attention is also drawn to paragraph 32 of the petition which deal with

grounds that may be urged before this court. I would also include same in this

judgment, since the case itself involves resorting to important provisions under

the Lands Acquisitions Act, more particularly, 'divesting' of the land in dispute.

(i) The requirements of Section 39A have not been fulfilled in the present instance and

thus the said divestiture is ultra vires.

(ii) The 1st Respondent has acted in gross violation of the provisions of the Land

Acquisition Act and particularly Section 39A thereof.

I

J l I

! 1

1

~ I I 1 I I I I I I I

I

I ! I I I

7

(iii) The 1st Respondent has failed to comply with the mandatory requirements of

Section 39A (2) prior to making a Divesting Order in terms of the Land Acquisition

Act.

(iv) The 1st Respondent has unlawfully abdicated his rights and responsibilities in terms

of the Land Acquisition Act and Section 39A (2) of the said Act in particular and had

acted as a mere rubber stamp for the Committee on Public Petitions.

(v) Had the 1st Respondent taken steps to ascertain whether the requirements of

Section 39A (2) had been fulfilled prior to such divestiture the 1st Respondent would

have come to know that the entirety if the land acquired in 1986 had been used for

a public purpose by the Petitioner and that the Petitioner had effected

improvements to the said land and that therefore the law did not permit the rr.dking

of a divesting order in respect of such land.

(vi) In any event the law does not permit a piece meal divestiture in the nature of what

had been carried out in the present instance.

(vii) The divesting order and the handing over of possession has resulted in the

demolishing of the concrete works thus causing immense harm and injury to the

Petitioner and its constituents.

(viii) In any event the 1st Respondent had failed to hold any inquiry into the matter and/or

to grant the Petitioner a hearing prior to deciding upon such divestiture which action

is arbitrary, capricious and against the principles of natural justice.

(ix) Without prejudice to what is stated above the Petitioner further states that the 1st

Respondent and/or the Committee on Public Petitions has acted on the basis of an

objection and/or a request made by person/s who have no right, title or interest in

respect of the land in question namely the 5th and/or 6th Respondent/s and that

therefore too the said decisions are arbitrary, capricious and unlawful.

(x) Therefore the Petitioner states that the said divestiture is bad in law and cannot be

justified in law in any manner whatsoever.

(xi) The Petitioner further states that in the circumstances, in terms of the law, this land

could never have been divested.

I

I

I

Ji

rr

\lt

8

The 1st Respondent, the Minister of Lands and Land Development pleads

inter alia that the Petitioner is guilty of laches and that the Petitioner's application

in law is misconceived and futile. In the pleadings there is reference to the Section

38A order (lRl) made in terms of the Land Acquisition Act. Document P4 is more

or less admitted. It is also stated inter alia in the affidavit that upon receiving

intimation in writing from the Committee on Public Petitions that the land in

question, excluding the portions on which the public library had been constructed

be divested, and the Divisional Secretary was informed by lR2 and pursuant to

which a Notice in terms of Section 39A(1) of the Act was published (lR3).

Paragraph 13 of the 1st Respondent's affidavit very clearly lays down

the procedure adopted as regards the compensation inquiry under the Land

Acquisition Act (lR4, iRS) and the award made thereon (lR6). There is also a

reference to the fact that by document PllB Committee on Public Petition had

informed the 4th Respondent to divest the land in question except the portions of

land on which the public library has been constructed. It is pleaded that the

decision by the said Committee does not preclude the land in question being

acquired again.

fI

\

I

I

iI

I!

\I,

I

~ I ! II

Ii , 1! II

J

je

t I

1 I ! I I I I 1

9

This court observes that the Lands Acquisition Act provides for

acquisition of lands and also revocation of vesting orders, divesting of lands etc.

There is a well recognized procedure spelt out in terms of the provisions of the

Land Acquisition Act. Nowhere in the affidavit of the 1st Respondent it is pleaded

that the 1st Respondent had followed the procedure laid down in the above Act as

regards divesting of the land in question and the publication of the order under

Section 39A of the Act. The Minister empowered to take steps under the above

Act need to adopt and follow the prescribed criteria under which a divestiture had

f to take place. The affidavit of the Minister concerned does not give a clue as t

regards above. It is very apparent that the procedure that need to be adopted has I

not been followed in terms of the statute. In these circumstances no amount of

submissions could rectify or cure the apparent defect.

We have also perused and considered the affidavit filed of record of

the 5th Respondent. The 5th Respondent has filed pleadings and along with his

affidavit and an answer had been filed and not the required objections. As a

preliminary matter 5th Respondent plead delay, suppression of material facts, and

non compliance of the Appellate Courts Procedure Rules. 5th Respondent

specifically state in paragraph 6 of his affidavit that his land was acquired in 1986

and until year 2000 (14 years) no public purpose was carried out and thus

I

! I

"I [i

\

I

t

~,\

10

deprived him of an income. Several other averments are contained in his affidavit

and in paragraph 30 an attempt is made to justify his position. This court observes

that other than a mere bare statement the 5th Respondent's land was acquired in

1986 there is no other statement or material by way of documentary proof that is

placed before this court to prove his title or entitlement to the property in

question at any point of time. Nor any submissions made to this court as to

whether 5th Respondent has any interest/right to the property in question. This

court is of the view that both 5th & 6th Respondents are 'schemers' who very

craftily made use of the State machinery and misled persons in authority only for

their personal gains. I will deal with the above position of the 5th & 6th

Respondents at a subsequent point in this judgment.

The journal entry of 16.6.2008, indicates that the t h Respondent was

added to this case. The subsequent journal entry of 30.6.2008 also shows that this

court allowed an application for interim relief and accordingly interim relief was

granted operative against the th Respondent as per sub paragraph 'F' of the

prayer to the petition. The stay order as above had been extended by this court

from time to time and such order extended till date of judgment. The land in

question had been transferred by transfer deed P18 of 5.2.2008 by the 5th & 6th

Respondents in favour of the th Respondents. Document P11A & P11B suggest

I

fIII

\

~ I

f

I! ,

Ir

I

fI

11

the modus operandi. The parliamentary Committee on Public Petitions have

affirmed a decision to recommend divestiture and to hand over possession of the

said land to the 5th & 6th Respondents. Letter P12 suggest the handing over of

possession of the land to the 5th & 6th Respondents.

This court observes that it is very unfortunate that a transaction in

the nature of a transfer deed (P18) had been executed in favour of the i h

Respondent. perusal of deed P18 indicates a very vague document prepared and

executed in a haphazard manner. The so called deed P18 does not give any clue

as to how title devolved on the transferor. In paragraph 4 (Pg 1) of the P18 merely

states that the land had been divested and possession handed over to the

transferor. By any stretch of imagination, this court cannot understand as to how

5th & 6th Respondents derive title to the land after divesting since previous

ownership and or the devolution of title had not been specifically stated in the

deed. What right, title or interest has the 5th Respondent and 6th Respondent

derived, to the land in dispute, to execute the so called deed P18? The material

placed before this court of possession of the 5th & 6th Respondents appear to be

too artificial and unsatisfactory to be accepted. Before a court can accept as

correct, a share in a property or entire ownership of the property in question,

there must be clear and unequivocal proof of how the vendor became entitled to

, ,I I ! ,

\ I II

,

(

\

t

12

the property or its share in question, and the transfer deed necessarily need to

give such important and relevant details in the deed itself. The Proctor who

prepared and attested the deed seems to have not acted diligently or for reasons

best known to him prepared the deed in a haphazard manner.

The Land Acquisition Act makes provision for the acquisition of lands

and servitudes for public purposes. The Act has several parts. Part V of the Act

deals with possession and disposal. The Minister as defined in the Act (Section 65)

plays a major role with certain powers vested in the Minister as regards

acquisition, disposal and or divesting of the land so acquired. The Minister

concerned in terms of the Act need to take certain statutory steps which are well

defined and explained in the Statute. As such the Minister cannot deviate from

such well established statutory provisions. By the Amendment Act No.8 of 1979

the following new section was inserted immediately after Section 39 and it has

the effect as Section 39A of the Statute.

(1) Notwithstanding that by virtue of an Order under section 38 (hereafter in this section

referred to as a "vesting Order") any land has vested absolutely in the State and actual

possession of such land has been taken for or on behalf of the State undel the

provisions of paragraph (a) of section 40, the Minister may, subject to subsection (2), by

subsequent Order published in the Gazette (hereafter in this section referred to as a

"divesting Order") divest the State of the land so vested by the aforesaid vesting Order.

{

r; ,I , I ,l

13

(2) The Minister shall prior to making a divesting Order under subsection (1) satisfy himself

that -

(a) no compensation has been paid under this Act to any person or persons interested

in the land in relation to which the said divesting Order is to be made;

(b) the said land has not been used for a public purpose after possession of such land

has been taken by the State under the provisions of paragraph (a) of section 40;

(c) no improvements to the said land have been effected after the Order for possession

under paragraph (a) of section 40 and had been made; and

(d) the person or persons interested in the said land have consented in writing to take

possession of such land immediately after the divesting Order is published i" the

Gazette.

Subsection (1) of the above section empowers the Minister to divest and he

may do so. Thereafter sub section (2) use the words the Minister shall prior to

divesting satisfy himself of (a) to (d) of sub section (2). The words used above as

Imay' is directory and thereafter the insertions of the word 'shall' makes the acts

prior to divesting mandatory. The discretion is in the Minister if he so desires

(subject to acceptable norms) to divest acquired land. But if the Minister decides

to divest acquired land, he has to follow and is bound to follow the criteria laid

down in the above subsection (2). If not the Minister would act in breach of the

mandatory provisions and a court of law need to step in and make the suitable

order within the legal frame work. In other words I take the view that the writ

jurisdiction could be invoked for the sake of justice.

t

i I 1II!I

\,

i

II

14

As observed above in this judgment the Minister has failed to satisfy

himself as regards the ingredients in Section 39A(1)(2) of the Act. The Committee

on Public Petitions have no jurisdiction or power to interfere with statutory

provisions contained in Section 39A of the act and it is a clear violation Of the

provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, and any act on the part of the above

committee acting in breach of the above statute in the context of this case is

unlawful. I do agree with the contention of the Petitioner that the 1st Respondent

failed to give the Petitioner any hearing and failed to make any inquiry in respect

of the status of the land in question prior to divestiture. We would refer to the

judgment in Amarasinghe Vs. Wijeratne & Others 2012 BLR 390 ..

lilt is a very basic and fundamental principle in public law that rules of natural justice

should be observed by any Court, Tribunal or other body or person empowered by law

to inquire into a matter affecting the rights of parties.

There is a general right for both sides to a proper hearing. Fair hearing which should be

unbiased would embrace legitimate expectation. A proper and sufficient notice of the

case against a party is also necessary so that such notice would enable a party to be

prepared and contest contrary positions.

A decision given in breach of the rules of natural justice is a nullity and void in law.

! 1 ! ( I[

\

i I f t I

~ ,I

~ I I

III i I I!

t !

J

15

Document 1R6, 1R5, which are notice and award under Section 17

gives no clue of the presence of 5

th & 6

th Respondents or their participation. This

leads this court to disbelieve the position of these Respondents. There is also

some material to support the position that the original owner was (Kandy Vishunu

Devale' (P10A to P10E).

I would also advert to the point that piece-meal divestiture of

acquired land is not possible. Vide Kinsley Fernando Vs. Dayaratne & Others

1991(2) SLR 129 at 139, Mendis Vs. Jayaratne 1997 (2) SLR 215. The importance of

public purpose was discussed in Sugathapala Mendis and another Vs. Chandrika

Bandaranaike Kumaratunge & Others S.C F/R 352/2007. The exercise of

discretion, particularly under Section 39{A) of the Land Acquisition Act

Amendment Act No.8 of 1979 was discussed by Mark Fernando J. in De Silva Vs.

Athukorale Minsiter of Lands & Another 1993 SLR Vol. 1 Pg. 283.

((The True intent and meaning of the Amending Act was to empower the

Minister to restore to the original owner land for the acquisition (or

retention) of which there was originally (for subsequently) no adequate

justification, upon the fulfillment of the stipulated conditions. It was a

power conferred solely to be used for the public good and not fo; his

f III! ! I II

I

f

~

t !i I

\IIII t ! II

16

personal benefit. It was held in trust for the public; to be exercised

reasonably and in good faith and upon lawful and relevant ground of public

interest".

The Respondents more particularly the 5th Respondent has pleaded

delay, non compliance of rules etc. We are not inclined to accept those objections

since very basic provisions in the statute has not been complied with by the 1st

Respondent and the question of delay though not properly demonstrated, cannot

be a ground to disentitled a party relief in circumstances where the order

challenged is a nullity or invalid (Biso Menika's case) we have considerea the

position of each party to this application very carefully. We are of the view that

the Petitioner is entitled to relief.

In all the above facts and circumstances we are of the view that the

1st Respondent has failed to adhere to the mandatory provisions of the Land

Acquisition Act as stated above. The 5th and 6th Respondents are schemers who

manipulated state machinery for ulterior motives by deceiving the autho,ities

concerned. Therefore we make order allowing this application as per

{I ! ; I l ! It

t

~ II f E r

f ,

\ j !II

1: r II ! t I

J !

\ I

\ ,

~ i f f

17

subparagraph (b) & (c) of the prayer to the petition. Writ of Certiorari issued as

per the prayer to the petition with costs.

Application allowed with costs.

Deepali Wijesundera J.

I agree.

AJ~lf0~~3~ L)' ~

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL I

\ • I I I ! i I I ,I

~ ! l I

f II

I

\

i