==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

Case No.

CA (writ) Application No.79/2012

In the matter of an application for Mandates in

The nature of Writs of Certiorari and Prohibition

In terms of Article 140 of the Constitution.

Frontier Automotive (Pvt) Ltd.,

488, Nawala Road,

Koswatta,

Rajagiriya.

Petitioner

Vs.

1) Consumer Affairs Authority,

1st and 2nd Floor,

CWE Secretariat Building,

PO Box 1581,

27, Vauxhall Street,

Colombo2.

2) Interfreight (Pvt) Ltd.,

IWSCentre,

No.451, Kandy Road,

Kelaniya.

3) GFS Frontier (Pvt) Ltd.,

271, Galle Road,

Colombo3.

Respondents

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Supported on

Order on

S.Sriskandarajah,J

2

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

W.M.M.MALINIE GUNARATNE, J

S.L.Gunasekera with M.E.Wickramasinghe,

for the Petitioner

A.H.M.D.Nawaz DSG,

for the 1st Respondent

Romesh de Silva PC with Sugath Caldera,

for the 2nd Respondent

11.07.2013

16.07.2013

The learned Counsel for the Petitioner, in supporting this Application, submitted

that the Petitioner Company has been engaged in the business of selling and/ or manufacturing

and/ or assembling motor vehicles by the 3rd Respondent, which is an associate company of the

Petitioner, and the Petitioner Company, on or about 3rd of June 2009, sold and delivered to the

2nd Respondent a Land Rover Jeep, assembled by the 3rd Respondent for a sum of Rs.9.5M. The

Petitioner also admitted that it is the obligation of the seller of a motor vehicle, in terms of any

contract of sale, to cause the said vehicle to be registered by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.

The Petitioner admitted that it was unable to cause the registration of several Land Rover

vehicles, including that was sold to the 2nd Respondent, because of a policy adopted by the

Registrar of Motor Vehicles, not to register such vehicles. Despite the knowledge that the

Petitioner had in relation to the said registration, the Petitioner, when selling the said motor

vehicle to the 2nd Respondent, had given a letter of warranty and guarantee, in that letter, he

had given 3 years warranty to the said vehicle and also had guaranteed that it would be

registered with the Registrar of Motor Vehicles. The said document was not filed with this

3

application, and the said document was brought to the notice of Court by the 1st Respondent. It

is a serious suppression of fact to this Court that while the Petitioners were aware that this

vehicle cannot be registered in the Registrar of Motor Vehicles due to a policy adopted by the

Registrar of Motor Vehicles, the Petitioner has given a guarantee that he will get the vehicle

registered in the Registrar of Motor Vehicles and sold the vehicle to the 2nd Respondent.

As the said vehicle was not registered as guaranteed by the Petitioner, the 2nd

Respondent complained to the Jst Respondent authority, the Consumer Affairs Authority, and

the Consumer Affairs Authority commenced an inquiry into this matter. The Petitioner

submitted to Court that the Consumer Affairs Authority has no jurisdiction to inquire into this

matter under Section 13(1)(b), for the reason that the complaint to the Consumer Affairs

Authority should be made within 3 months of the sale of the goods.

The above submission has no merit in relation to goods that has warrantee or guarantee, and it

has been constantly held by this Court that when there is a warrantee or a guarantee, the

complaint could be made within 3 months after the expiration of the said warrantee or

guarantee: David Pieris Motor Company Limited v Consumer Affairs Autlwrihj, C.A/WRIT/App/No.

635/2.007, CA minute 03.08.2009, Aqua Technologies (Private) Limited v Consumer Affairs

Authority, C.A. (Writ) Application No.1068(2007 CA minutes 21.09.2012. In this instant case

the 2nd Respondent has made a complaint within the period of guarantee and, therefore, the

Consumer Affairs Authority has jurisdiction to inquire into this matter. The Consumer Affairs

Authority has given a fair hearing to the Petitioner and the 2nd Respondent and in the course of

the hearing, the Petitioner has suggested that he will refund the money to the value of the

vehicle and the vehicle should be valued by an independent valuer. On his request a valuation

was done, and the valuation was above the sale price of the said vehicle and, therefore, the

Consumer Affairs Authority has directed the Petitioner to pay the sale price of the vehicle in

return of the said vehicle. In these circumstances the Consumer Affairs Authority has acted

fairly and within its jurisdiction.

Considering the facts stated above, viz., that the Petitioner has suppressed the warrantee

documents from this Court and it is a material document that has to be considered in this

• 4

Application, and considering the merit of this Application, the Petitioner has not established a

prima facie case for this Court to issue notice. In these circumstances this Court refuses to issue

notice on the Respondents.

President of the Court of Appeal

W.M.M.Malinie Gunaratne, J

I agree,

Judge of the Court of Appeal