==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

IN THE COURT APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

C.A. Appeal No. 29/95 (F)

D.C. Tangalle No. 07 IRE

P.H. Geeganage Ariyathillake,

Weera ketiya,

Buddhiyagama.

Vs.

s. Joshihamy, "Kumidu",

Mandaduwa,

Weeraketiya.

Plaintiff

Defendant

AND

S. Joshihamy (deceased),

"Kumidu",

Mandaduwa,

Weeraketiya.

Defendant-Appellant

P. Muhandiramge Premalatha,

"Kumidu",

Mandaduwa,

Weeraketiya.

Substituted Defendant-Appellant

Vs.

P.H. Geeganage Ariyathillake,

Weeraketiya,

Buddhiyagama.

Plaintiff-Respondent

t I

.~ l

~

f ! i I t

Case No 29/95.

Counsel: Gamini Hettiarachchi for the

Defendant/Appellant.

S.N. Vijithsinghe J for the

PlaintifflRespondent.

Argued: 27-11-2009

Written Submissions: 15-10-2010

Before: Rohini Marasinghe J.

Judgment: 27-1-2011

Rohini Marasinghe J.

The plaintifflRespondent instituted this action III the District court of

Tangalle seeking inter alia for the ejectment of the defendant on the basis of

termination of the tenancy agreement from 30-4-1985. The defendant by

his answer sought dismissal of action. After trial the judgment was entered

in favour of the plaintiff. This appeal is against that judgment.

The case of the plaintiff was briefly as follows:

The premises in suit bear the assessment No 2/3 situated at Weerakatiya.

The said premises were purchased by the plaintiff from one Nanadaseeli in

1984 by deed No 23022. The defendant was a lessee of said Nadaseeli. And

on 30th April of 1985, the plaintiff had written to the defendant asking him to

1

quit the premises in suit and hand over the premises. The defendant had

refused. The plaintiff filed this action. The plaintiff in his evidence admitted

that the defendant had paid the rents up to end of February 1985. And that

the defendant was in arrears of rent. The letter of 30th April 1985 was to

terminate the lease agreement.

The case of the defendant was that the premises in suit were taken on a lease

agreement from said Nandaseeli. And that he was not in arrears of rent.

The main ground of appeal was that the learned Judge was in error when he

stated that the parties have admitted that the premises are not governed by

the Rent Act.

The submissions of the appellant were that the plaintiff had framed the issue

No 8. But that the plaintiff had not led any evidence to establish that issue.

And that the trial Judge had wrongly held that the premises were not

governed by the Rent Act.

The submissions of the plaintiff on this point were that in the evidence he

had stated that the premises are situated in an area not governed by the Rent

Act. He points to his evidence at page 47 in the appeal brief. In that he had

stated;

h -9-()Q r4 @) iO'T-P DS...l(v-4 ~D ~Q~w iieO 1"1

,...... 1Sh nt) ?fj

G)"'nQ~ ~ 'i.t..<u.-I ~'f\.-..s ~vfJe ~G

PQy\ " - - .

2

Consequently, the plaintiff was claiming that the premises in suit were not

governed by the Rent Act. If the premises were not governed by the Rent

Act the burden lay on him to prove that fact. A mere statement that the

premises are not within an area controlled by the Rent Act is not sufficient

proof of section 2 of the Rent Act. If any premises are out side the operation

of the Rent Act, the law that would govern those premises would be the

General Law. The learned Judge had proceeded on that basis. The learned

Judge erred in law when he made that determination with out any evidence

to that effect. The situation of the premises is something that is known to the

plaintiff. The court cannot take judicial notice of that fact as submitted by

the plaintiff. The plaintiff in his written submissions had stated that the

premises in suit were situated in Weerakatya. Therefore, he submits that the

premises were out sided the area controlled by the Rent Act. Firstly, there

was no evidence to establish that the premises in suit were situated in

Weerakatiya. Secondly, there was no evidence to establish that the

Weerakatiya is out side the Rent Act. The plaintiff cannot expect the Appeal

Court to find out these facts and write the judgment.

I am of the view that the plaintiff had failed to prove the basis of his case.

The trial Judge was in error when he held against the defendant on this point.

The plaintiff had further submitted that the defendant in his answer had not

denied that the premises were not governed by the Rent Act. Time and

again it had bee held that the trial proceeds on the issues, and that once the

issues are framed and accepted, pleadings recede to the back ground The

fact that in the answer the defendant had not denied that the premises in suit

3

t I I f I t . " t I I I , I I r I i l ! ! i I

are governed by the Rent Act is irrelevant. The plaintiff had raised an issue

which he had failed to prove.

The appeal is allowed.

Rohini arasinghe J Judge of the Court of Appeal

4