==== BLOCKS ==== 

J

1 1

1 1 1 1 1

I I

\

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. Case No.320/96(F)

DC Kegalle Case No. 2491S/P

1

D.G. Gunatileke

Galgodegedara

Puwakmote

Yatagama

Rambukkana.

2ND DEFENDANT - APPELLANT

Vs

1. D.G. Herath Banda

Puwakmote

Yatagama

Rambukkana.

SUBSTITUTED PLAINTIFF-RESPONDENT

2. D.G. Karunaratne

Galgodegedara

Puwakmote

Yatagama

Rambukkana.

1ST DEFENDANT - RESPONDENT

\

\ii

~,\ \ ,t

fil

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

Deepali Wijesundera J.

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

: M.M.A. Gaffoor J.

: S.A.D.S. Suraweera for the

2nd Defendant Appel/ant

D.M.G. Dissanayake with

L.M.C.D. Bandara for the

Substituted Plaintiff Respondent

and 1 st Defendant Respondent.

: 30th January, 2015

: 22nd May, 2015

The plaintiff respondent had filed a partition case in the District

Court of Kegal/e to partition the land described in the schedule to the

plaintiff. The plaintiff respondent stated that the second defendant

appellant is in occupation of the land without any title and sought the

land to be partition amongst the plaintiff respondent and the first

defendant respondent. The learned District Judge after trial delivered

the judgment on the 07/06/1996 answering the points of contest in

favour of the plaintiff respondent and made order to partition the said

land between the plaintiff respondent and the first defendant

2

-respondent. The second defendant appel/ant has preferred the instant

appeal against the said judgment.

Both parties have agreed that the original owner of the land was

Ukkurala and after his dismiss Mudalihamy became the owner. The

appellant's position was that upon Mudalihamy's death his rights

devolved on Punchirala, Mudalihamy and Appuhamy. The appel/ant has

stated in the District Court that Punchirala and Mudalihamy's rights

devolved on Wijeratne who held 2/3 shares and the balance 1/3 share

devolved on Punchibanda and Dingiribanda. All three of them were

parties to the District Court case number 9957 in which case their

shares were consolidated in the judgment. The appel/ant has stated in

the District Court that Punchibanda and Dingiribanda transferred their

rights by deed no. 3205 dated 27107/1987 to him and that the said

Wijeratne never possessed his 2/3 shares and that it was Punchibanda

and Dingiribanda who possessed the entire land.

The second defendant appel/ant has stated a different argument

in the instant case. The counsel for the appellant stated that the

appellant is an outsider to the pedigree of the plaintiff respondent and

Mudalihamy had a child named Mudalihamy who owned 1/3rd share of

the land which was transferred to the appel/ants predecessors in title. In

3

addition to this 1/3 share the appellant has claimed the entire land on

prescription. The counsel for the appellant stated that the learned

District Judge has misdirected herself and arrived at an erroneous

conclusion when deciding that Appuhamy did not have any rights to

transfer. He further submitted that the District Judge has misdirected

herself on the point where the said Mudalihamy had a son by the same

name whose title was not considered in the appellant's pedigree by

which he was deprived of his paper title. The appellant's counsel further

stated that the learned District Judge's findings on prescription on the

basis of co-ownership is erroneous since the appellant has not claimed

co-owned rights and that according to the plaintiff respondent the

appellant is a complete outsider.

The plaintiff respondent has marked deed no. 1488 as P1 which

dated back to 1912 the plaintiff respondent stated that by this deed

Mudalihamy gave his rights to Punchirala and Dingiri Appuhamy

therefore the said Mudalihamy did not have any title to give Punchirala,

Mudalihamy and Appuhamy from whom the appellant claimed title by

deeds marked as 2V1 and 2V2 did not have rights to transfer. The

plaintiff respondent's counsel stated the first and second respondents

derived this title to the entire land from the said Punchirala and Dingiri

Appuhamy.

4

The counsel for the respondents stated that the appellant in the

District Court by giving evidence has asked for 1/3 share of the corpus

and also the buildings he claimed before the surveyor and stated that he

built the same in the year 1978 but has not claimed any rights by way of

prescription.

The defendant's counsel further submitted that in the deeds

marked by the appellant the land described is different from the land

surveyed in the District Court action. They further stated that the

appellant has failed to prove his title on the deeds relied upon by him to

the corpus as stated by the learned District Judge in the said judgment.

On perusal of P1, 2V1 and 2V2 I find that the name of the land

and boundaries described in the schedule is different. The plan marked

X in the District Court action the land is described as Munkanatthe

aramba (~~@tD er6&) in P1 also the land described is called

"~eDt»eDtD@tD er6&)" but in 2V1 and 2V2 the land is called Munkotuwe

watte (~eD@t»JQ@~ e)tDO» in which schedules I find the boundaries differ

from P1 and plan X. The only conclusion this court can arrive at is that

the deed 2V1 and 2V2 are not for the land described in the plaint.

5

Pi dates as far back as 1912 by which Mudalihamy gives title to

Punchirala and Dingiri Appuhamy and is the deed for the land sought to

be partitioned in the District Court. This deed no. 1488 date 26/04/1912

has bestowed all Mudalihamy's rights to Punchirala and Dingiri

Appuhamy therefore he had to rights to give Punchirala, Mudalihamy

and Appuhamy as described in the appellant's pedigree.

The appellant had not called the said Punchibanda and

Dingiribanda from whom he claimed he got title to the said land to give

evidence. The deeds he marked as 2V1 and 2V2 were written in July

1987 and the partition case has been filed on 01/07/1988. The lands

described in these two title deeds are different from the land in suit.

The learned District Judge has considered the evidence placed

before court and also gone into the title of the plaintiff and the

defendants. When the trial judge has evaluated the evidence and come

to a conclusion the appellate court should not interfere in the findings of

the trial judge unless there is a violation of the law. In the instant case

the Trial Judge has carefully evaluated the evidence to examine the title

of the plaintiff and arrived at the findings.

6

For the afore stated reasons I affirm the judgment of the learned

District Judge delivered on 07/06/1996 and dismiss the appeal of the

appellant with costs fixed at Rs. 10,0001=.

JUDGE o~t;: OF APPEAL

M.M.A. Gaffoor J.

I agree.

7