==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

C.A.No.191j2009

H.C.Badulla No.50j2002

C.A.No.191/2009

Before

Counsel

Argued and

Decided on

S.M.R. Nandasena Kudabandara

Accused-Appellant.

Vs.

The Attorney-General

Respondent

H.C.Badulla No.50/2002

Sisira J. de Abrew,J.(PjCA) and

P.W.D.C.Jayathilaka, J.

Amila Palliyage for the Accused-Appellant.

Varuika Heettige SSC for the A.G.

07.03.2014

I!I

2

Sisira J de Abrew,J ( PICA)

Accused - Appellant who is on bail is present in Court.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted for raping a woman

named Kanchana and was sentenced to a term of 07 years Rigorous

Imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs.20,000/= carrying a default sentence

of 02 years simple imprisonment and to pay a sum of Rs. 2,50,000/- to the

victim carrying a default sentence of 03 years imprisonment. Being

aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence he has appealed to this

Court. Fact of this case may be briefly summarised as follows.

According to the prosecutrix in this case the accused-appellant has

performed sexual intercourse on several occasions. On the first occasion the

accused-appellant, the prosecutrix and the accused-appellant's daughter

went to nearby jungle to collect the fire wood. In the jungle accused-

appellant sent her little daughter away from this place asking her to bring

V some fruits. Thereafter he committed ~ sexual intercourse on Kanchana

without her consent. On the 2nd occasion when the accused-appellant's wife

went to the neighbouring house to watch the television, he sent her

daughter to the temple. But surprisingly Kanchana remains at home.

Thereafter accused-appellant committed sexual intercourse on her without

consent. On the 3rd occasion when the wife went to a hospital, appellant

again committed sexual intercourse on her without her consent. According II

~ , I II

3

to her the accused-appellant had threatened her to kill her parent if the

incident is divulged. But the question that arises is that if he had so

threatened as to why she remained in the house of the accused-appellant

after the wife of the accused-appellant left the house. From the above

evidence it appears that there is a reasonable doubt whether she consented

to the sexual intercourse. She was questioned by learned counsel for the

accused-appellant whether she had any sexual intercourse with Police

Constable Upananda with whom she was having a love affair. She admitted

the love affair but did not admit the sexual intercourse with Police Constable

Upananda. But later in her evidence she admitted she had had sexual

intercourse with the police constable Upananda. It is significant to note that

the sexual intercourse with the police constable Upananda, according to

her, has taken place in the month of March of 1999. According to the

indictment, incident was also in the month of March 1999. The question

that arises is that as to why she first denied having had sexual intercourse

with the police constable Upananda and later admitted that she had had

sexual intercourse with Upananda. From this evidence we doubt whether

she was trying to attribute the sexual intercourse that she had with

Upananda to the accused-appellant. This doubt arises only if she had had

sexual intercourse with the accused-appellant. Learned Senior State

Counsel Miss. Varunika Hettige submits that in view of the contradictory

nature of the evidence of the prosecution she is unable to support the

conviction. We are pleased with this submission. When we consider the

evidence of the prosecutrix we are unable to hold that the prosecution has

proved the case beyond reasonable doubt. Learned trial judge has failed to

Ii' ! I r ! f

I

I I 4

consider these matters. For the above reasons, we think it is unsafe to allow

the conviction to stand. We hold that the prosecution has not proved it case

beyond reasonable doubt. For the above reasons, we set aside the conviction

and the sentence of the accused- appellant and acquit the accused-

appellant of the charge of rape.

Appeal allowed.

~<t;~

------------= ~ =' PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P. W .D.C.Jayathilaka,J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

WCj-

I

IIIlI,Ir

J

I