==== BLOCKS ==== 

,

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A 19511997 (F) DoC Horana 3799/P

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

Anil Gooneratne J 0

A. Do Wimala Perera of "Weeragiri" Walpita Road, Mapatana, Horanao

12 TH DEFENDANT-APPELLANT

VSo

Harsha Kumara Hettiwatte Wi mala Kumara Hettiwatte Sarathchandra Hettiwatte of Remuna, Anguruwatota Next Friend of Plaintiffs-Respondents

PLAINTIFFS-RESPONDENTS

J oH. Karannagoda and others

DEFENDANTS-RESPONDENTS

Faiz Mutapha PoC for the lih Defendant-Appellant

Athula Perera for the Plaintiff-Respondnets

2

ARGUED ON: 02.06.2011

DECIDED ON: 08.11.2011

GOONERA TNE J.

When this appeal came up before this court on 2.6.2011 learned

counsel for Plaintiff-Respondent raised a preliminary objection regarding the

maintainability of this appeal. It was his position that all parties who had

obtained rights from the partition decree are not named as parties to this

appeal in the Petition of Appeal. Only the two Plaintiffs and the 1

5t

Defendant, Ith Defendant-Appellant are named in the petition of appeal.

The learned counsel also raised the question of giving security for costs of

appeal to all Defendants. On this question both parties were permitted by

court to file written submissions.

The notice of appeal of 8th April 1997 gIves the required

particulars like name of the court from which appeal is preferred, number of

action, names and addresses of parties to the action, name of the two

Plaintiffs, Next friend of Plaintiffs and 30th Defendants are described in the

caption. The Appellant is the 1 t h Defendant. The petition of appeal

describes the two Plaintiffs and Defendants No. (1), the Ith Defendant-

3

Appellant. The 1 st Defendant-Respondent is named and described as 'and

others'. At the bottom of 1. J. H. Karannagoda ... and others it is typed as

Defendant-Respondents. However the names of other Respondents do not

appear in the caption.

In the written submissions the Plaintiff-Respondents

emphasizes that the Ith Defendant-Appellant is aware of all parties effected

by the decree, and it is negligence of the Attorney-at-Law and as a result the

1 t h Defendant-Appellant must suffer the consequences. It would be

important and necessary to incorporate from the written submissions the

following:

Necessary parties

As per the judgment 16 parties namely, 1 st and the 2 nd plaintiffs, 1 st 2 nd 3rd 4A, 5th i h 9th ,

10th 1 t h 20th , 21 st , 2ih 28th 29th defendants had been given rights. The 1 t h defendant

appellant seeks to exclude lot 17 in the preliminary plan. If as claimed by the 1 t h

defendant appellant lot 17 is excluded from the corpus it would affect prejudicially, the

rights of all the parties who had been given rights. In the circumstances for the proper

constitution of the petition of appeal all parties who would be prejudicially affected by

the result of the appeal should be named as parties, unless they are the petition of appeal

is defective.

If the present appeal of the 1 t h defendant is allowed all the parties who obtained rights

would be prejudicially effected without adding them as parties to the present appeal. In

such circumstances for the proper constitution of the appeal all parties who would be

prejudicially affected should be named as parties. None inclusion of the necessary parties

would be a fatal defect which cannot be curable at this stage of the case.

4

There are no provisions in the Partition case which demonstrate the requirements of filing

of a petition of appeal. However as stated in Section 67 of the Partition Act the provisions

in Civil Procedure code apply to any appeal that would be preferred against a judgment

entered in a partition case.

Section 758 of the Civil Procedure Code lays down the requirements that have to be

included in the petition or appeal.

I also had the benefit of reading and adopting the following

case laws cited by learned counsel for Plaintiff-Respondent.

Ibrahim vs. Beebee 19 N.L.R 285

It is necessary, for the proper constitution of an appeal, that all parties to an action

who may be prejudicially affected by the result of the appeal should be made

parties, and unless they are, the petition of appeal should be rejected.

Gunasekera vs. Perera 74 N.L.R 163

Failure of the appellant, in an appeal filed by him, to join as a respondent a party

who will be adversely affected if the appeal were to succeed renders the appeal

liable to be rejected if objection is taken by a party-respondent.

Wijerathna vs. Wijerathna 74 N.L.R. 193

Where the failure to name a necessary party as a respondent to an appeal is a

defect of an obvious character, the appeal is liable to be dismissed. In such a case

the decision of the Full Bench in Ibrahim v. Beebee (19 N.L.R 289) continues to

be binding despite the enactment of the Supreme Court Appeals (Special

Provisions) Act No.4 of 1960.

5

Ibrahim vs. Nadarajah 1991 (1) S.L.R 131

Held.

A Failure to comply with the requirements of Rules 4 and 28 of the Supreme

Court Rules 1978 is necessarily fatal.

Per Amerasighe, J.

"It has always, therefore, been the law that it is necessary for the proper

constitution of an appeal that all parties who may be adversely affected by the

result of the appeal should be made parties and, unless they are, the petition of

appeal should be rejected".

Talayaratna vs. Talayaratna 61 N.L.R 112

The Civil Procedure Code does not require a party appellant to name as

respondent to an appeal every party to the proceedings in the lower Court. A party

against whom no order is sought by the appellant need not be named as a

respondent.

Mahathun Mudalali vs. N.A. Naposingno 1986 (3) CALR 318

The requirements of a notice of appeal are spelt out in section 755 subsections 1

and 2. it shall be distinctly written on suitable paper, signed by the appellant or

his registered Attorney and be stamped whenever applicable. It will also contain

the particulars enumerated therein and shall accompanied by security .... Further

more proof of service of such notice on the respondents shall be furnished. In my

view all of the above requirements which are mandatory requirements must be

satisfied in order to constitute a proper notice of appeal. This the notice that is

presented to Court in terms of Section 754(4); and if such conditions are not

fulfilled the Court refuse to receive it. ..

6

Undikkunda Arachchige Arnolis Perera vs Karunapeli Arachchige

Premalatha CA Minutes dated 14.2.2005.

Weerasuriya Arachchige Podi Ralahamy vs. Sapumal Bandaranayake

Ralalage alias Kiriwelle Ralalage Punchi Banda Weerasuriya CA Minutes

dated 3.12.2004 it was held that;

In the instant appeal, I would hold that the default of citing a person not living as

the respondent in the notice of appeal and in the petition of appeal which resulted

from the negligence of the 2nd defendant appellant and his registered Attorney at

Law would render the notice of appeal and the petition of appeal void ab initio

and liable to be rejected in limine. This defect being incurable the defendant

appellant cannot seek any relief in terms of section 759(2) of the Civil Procedure

Code to amend the caption to bring in the person who should have been made

respondent to the notice of appeal and the petition of appeal

In Keerthiratne Vs. Udena Jayasekera reported in 1990 (2) SLR 346 it was

held that, the provisions of Section 759(2) of the Civil Procedure Code

cannot be invoked to condone the negligence and carelessness of the

Attorney at Law on record.

In Packiyanathan Vs. Singarajah 1991 (2) SLR 305 it was held that, "relief

will not be granted for default in prosecuting an appeal where-

(a) The default has resulted from the negligence of the client or both the client and

his attorney at Law.

(b) The default has resulted from the negligence of the Attorney at Law in which

event the principle is that the negligence of the Attorney at Law is the negligence

of the client and the client must suffer for it.

7

The other complaint of the learned counsel for Respondent is

the failure of the Appellant to give security for costs of appeal of the

Respondents. He emphasis that the Appellant has not complied with Section

755(2)(a) of the Civil Procedure Code which is mandatory. As such appeal

of the lih Defendant-Appellant needs to be rejected.

Section 755 (2)(a) reads thus:

(2) The notice of appeal shall be accompanied by -

(a) except as provided herein, security for the respondent's costs of appeal is such

amount and nature as is prescribed in the rules made by the Supreme Court under

Article 136 of the Constitution, or acknowledgment or waiver of security signed

by the respondent or his registered attorney.

I have also perused the written submissions of the 1 i h

Defendant-Appellant filed on 30.8.2011. Those submissions deal with the

merits of the case and on points where the original court Judge has erred as

alleged by the Appellant. No submissions are contained on the preliminary

objection raised by Plaintiff-Respondent. Court has to decide on the

maintainability of this appeal prior to considering the merits. However

further opportunity was given to reply the written submission filed by each

other for 18.10.2011.

On 18.10.2011 the lih Defendant-Appellant filed further

written submissions in reply to the submissions of Plaintiff-Respondents and

relies on Section 759(2) of the Civil Procedure Code. It is also submitted

8

therein that the notice of appeal gives the particulars of all Respondents and

invites court to pennit the 1 i

h Defendant-Appellant to amend the Petition of

Appeal and to make security deposits in respect of the Respondents.

Section 759(2) of the Code reads thus:

In the case of any mistake, omission or defect on the part of any appellant in

complying with the provisions of the foregoing sections, (other than a provision

specifying the period within which any act or thing is to be done) the Court of

Appeal may, if it should be of opinion that the respondent has not been materially

prejudiced, grant relief on such terms as it may deem just.

There are authorities that suggest that the provisions of Section

759 (2) of the Code are wide and it is the discretion of the Court of Appeal

to grant relief in an appropriate case.1982 (1) SLR 56; 1993 (2) SLR 289;

1997 (1) SLR 70.

There are also decided cases which suggests that Section 759

(2) of the Code cannot be invited to condone the negligence and carelessness

of the Attorney-at-Law on record. 1990 (2) SLR 346; 1986 (2) CALR 191.

In Martin vs. Sudahamy - Bar Association Law Journal III Part

II pg. 7 - Relief under Section 759 (2) would, upon a literal construction,

appear to apply even in a case of non-compliance with the requirement of

hypothecation contained in Section 757 (1) of the Code.

9

I would incorporate in this judgment the above case reported in

1993(2) SLR 289 Nanayakkara Vs. Wamakulasuriya

Where notice of appeal was given accompanied bys security for respondent's costs of

appeal as required by Section 755(2) (a) but there was failure to hypothecate the sum

deposited s security by bond as required by s. 757 (1) (and petition of appeal was filed in

terms of s. 755(3) and the court ordered the record to be forwarded to the Court of Appeal

as required by s. 755(4), the negligence of he attorney in not hypothecating may be

relevant but it does not fetter the discretion of the Court to grant relief where it is just and

fair to do so. The rule that negligence of attorney-at-law is the negligence of the client

does not apply.

Per Kulatunga J.

"Even though the District Court appears to have no power to reject a notice of appeal for

failure to hypothecate security, it may perhaps call upon the appellant to rectify the defect

where the non-compliance is observed at the stage when notice of appeal is given. If this

were done, it may help in reducing the volume of incidental proceedings before the Court

of Appeal resulting from the failure to hypothecate security by bond.

When I compare the earlier Civil Procedure Code (on grounds

of rejection of the petition of appeal) with the present Code, somewhat a

liberal view had been incorporated by Section 759(2) of the present Civil

Procedure Code. Section 759(2) was not found in the earlier Civil Procedure

Code. The law as it stood prior to 1972 was very strict in it's application and

had made mandatory provision with regard to provisions relating to notice of

appeal, Petition of Appeal and security for costs of appeal. The legislature in

10

it's wisdom has contemplated to relax the rules since mistakes, omissions

and defects occur very frequently by the legal profession, and one has to be

mindful of all this which may take place due to human error. However on

the other hand it is not the intention of the legislature to permit clients to

abuse the process. As such facts and circumstances of each case would differ

from case to case. The procedure on this aspect prior to 1972 was mandatory

and it's application was strict. Earlier appeals were abated whenever notice

of tender of security was not given forthwith. 41 NLR 241; 61 NLR 49; 22

NLR 1; SC 117/57 -F dated on 1.2.1960.

In all the above circumstances it is apparent to this court that

due to either carelessness or negligence of the registered Attorney of

Appellant, Petition of Appeal had been filed without following the available

procedural provisions of the law. I would adopt the dicta in Nanayakkara vs.

Warnakulasuriya - vide negligence of Attorney-at-Law is not the negligence

of client. Notwithstanding the lapse of registered Attorney of Appellant. I

am of the view that it is a curable defect and permit filing of amended

Petition of Appeal although a lapse of long period of time. As such

Respondents who should be in the case along with the Plaintiff-Respondents

need also to be compensated by way of costs.

11

Therefore I overrule the preliminary objections and this court

direct that a prepayment order for cost be made as follows. A sum of

Rs. 5000/= to be paid as costs to each of the Plaintiff-Respondents by the

1th Defendant-Appellant. All other parties and or Respondents who were

allotted shares by the final decree who should be made parties to this appeal

be paid as costs a sum of Rs. 3000/- each. Cost to be paid as aforesaid on or

before 12 noon of 24th November 2011 (Deposited in the Registry of this

court). Amended Petition to be filed on or before 24.11.2011 (In the registry

of the Court of Appeal).

Failure to comply with the above direction of court on the due

date and time will result in automatic rejection and dismissal of this appeal.

Preliminary objections overruled.