==== BLOCKS ==== 

THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA Case Number: CA 1101/98 F DC Galle case No: 12768/P

Kosgama Salman, Devinigoda, Rathgama.

Plaintiff-Appellant Vs. 1. Dineththi Jayaneris, (Deceased) 2. Yaddehi Udaris Appu, (Deceased) 3. Yaddehi Vineetha Malani, All of Devinigoda , Rathgama.

Defendants -Respondents

C.A.No.110l/98 (F)

Before

Counsel

Argued and

Decided on

K.T.Chitrasiri,J.

D.C. Galle No.12768/P

K.T.Chitrasiri,J.

Rohan Sahabandu P.C. with Dulani Warawewa

for the Plaintiff-Respondent

Dr. Sunil Coorey with Subashini Coorey for the substituted 2 C defendant-Respondent and for the 3rd defendant-Respondent

Rakith Abeysinghe for the substituted 1 D Defendan t -Responden t

23.01.2014

Heard all three Counsel in support of their respective cases. This is an

appeal seeking to set aside the judgment dated 18/12/1998 of the learned

District Judge of Galle. In the petition of appeal, the plaintiff-appellant

(hearinafter referred to as the plaintiff) also sought for a judgment to have the

land subjected to this action partitioned, in accordance with manner in which

he has set out the title in his plaint. The defendants in their answer as well as

in evidence have claimed prescriptive title to the entire corpus of this partition

action.

1

I

I![

i

II

I

!

rI! II!!i

I j 1 I 1 I 1 ! 1

J 1 I I

~ j j i

Admittedly, the land sought to be partitioned is depicted in the plan

bearing No. 0078 dated 24/5/1996 marked as X in evidence. It is the

subdivided lot 01, shown in the final plan 1253 filed in an earlier partition

action bearing No P /0798. The said final plan filed in that earlier partition case

is found at page 40 in the appeal brief. Also, it is undisputed that the 3rd

defendant-respondent is the daughter of the deceased 2nd defendant. Both

Counsel appearing for the three respondents also submit that there is no

dispute amongst the three defendants as to the rights they claim in this action.

Since the plaintiff has taken over prosecuting this action, it is his duty to

have the evidence brought in, as to the title of the parties in the manner set out

in the pleadings filed in the case. The defendants also are then entitled to call

witnesses to establish their respective claims. Then only the trial judge would

be placed in a position to investigate title of the parties to the action as

required in Section 25 of the Partition Act. [Galagoda V Mohideen 40 N L R

92, Gunatilleka V Murieal Silva 79 (1) N L R 481, Kularatne V Ariyasena

2001 B L R 06, Richard and Another V Seibel Nona 2001 (2) S L R 01,

Abeysinghe V Kumarasinghe 2008 B L R 300]

Therefore, it is first necessary to look at the evidence, adduced in this

case in order to determine the rights of the parties. Significantly, though he is

the plaintiff in this case has produced only one deed in order to establish the

2

rights of all the parties to the action. It is the deed bearing number 1552

marked PI. The rights in that deed emanate from the final decree entered in

r

!

the partition action Pj0798 referred to above. Tne said deed upon which the

plaintiff claim title to the aforesaid lot 1 in plan 0078 is a deed which refers to

seven vendors and upon which the plaintiff became a co-owner to the land [Lot

1 in plan 0078] subjected to this partition action. According to the schedule

t found in the final decree in the previous partition action, ( at page 129 in the

appeal brief) the said lot 1 had been allocated in common to the plaintiff and to

the 2nd,3rd,9th, 10th,90th j 100th, 76th, 76A, 77th 80th, 14th and 15th defendants in

that partition case. Therefore, it is seen that fair number of parties were

entitled to lot 1 in that case which is the land subjected to this action.

However, no evidence is forthcoming as to the way in which their title had been

devolved subsequently. Hence, it is clear that the plaintiff has failed to

establish his exact entitlement to the corpus in this partition case. Moreover,

he has not adduced any evidence as to the entitlements of the defendants

though he has shown shares to the defendants in the pedigree he has filed

along with the plaint. Therefore it is clear that the plaintiff has failed to

establish even his own title in order to determine his share to the land sought

to be partitioned. In such a situation the District Judge could not have

determined the exact entitlement of the parties to decide the case finally.

3

The learned District judge in his judgment dated 18/12/1998 has

accepted the prescriptive claim of the 1 st and 2nd defendant- respondents.

This decision of the learned District Judge has been made having considered

the evidence of the plaintiff as well. Plaintiff in his evidence has stated that the

2nd defendant has been living on this land for a period, well over 20-25 years

despite the rights of the plaintiff to this land by virtue of the deed marked PI.

His evidence to that effect is found at pages 60 and 67 in the appeal brief.

Moreover, the plaintiff has never stated that he possessed this land. Therefore,

I do not see any wrong when the learned District Judge decided that the

defendant-respondents had longstanding possession against the rights of the

plaintiff to the land sought to be partitioned.

Learned Counsel for the plaintiff-appellant submitted that the

defendants being co-owners should have established an overt act or an act of

ouster of the co-owners, if they are to claim prescriptive title to this co-owned

land. However, having perused the final decree upon which the title of the

plaintiff supposed to have derived, it is clear that the 2nd defendant had not

given any shares or has derived title from the parties who were allotted shared

in that action for him to be a co-owner. Even though the mother of the 2nd

defendant namely Waraliyas Hamy is the 41 st defendant in that case, she was

not given shares by the decree entered in that case. Furthermore, no evidence

has been adduced in this case to show that even the other defendants have

4

t

\ I I

i i

become entitled to the land for them to become co-owners to the land. Also, it

is necessary to note that such a position, not being a matter raised in the

original court, cannot be taken up at this appeal stage since it involves facts

and circumstances of the case. Therefore, the questions of ouster will not arise

in this instance. Accordingly, I do not see any merit in this appeal.

For the aforesaid reasons, this appeal is dismissed with costs fIxed at

Rs,75000j -.

Appeal dismissed.

JUnGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

WCj-

5