==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I

1 i 1 I I J

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Kurukulasuriya Joseph Perera

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

C.A 77/2011

H.C. Hambanthota 152/2006

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

P. R. Walgama J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDNET

Saliya Peiris for the Accused-Appellant

Kapila Waidyaratne A.S.G. for the Complainant-Respondent

17.02.2014

23.01.2015

1

!!II \I ri f i

1 i I

\

tI

fIfr

t~

If I II

t I ! 2

GOONERATNE J.

The Accused-Appellant was indicted in the High Court of

Hambanthota for committing an offence of rape (Section 364(1) of the Penal

Code) on one Priyadharshi on 18.3.2005 at the Kataragama Y.M.B.A pilgrims

rest. Accused-Appellant was convicted on 27.6.2011 and sentenced to 18 years

rigorous imprisonment and fined Rs. 5000/- which carries a default sentence

of 6 months simple imprisonment. When this appeal was taken up for hearing

initially, learned counsel for the Appellant contested the conviction and

sentence. The case itself was partly heard and was to be resumed on

16.1.2015. However on the said date learned counsel for the Accused-

Appellant indicated to this court that his client had given him specific

instructions only to challenge the sentence and not the conviction. He also

submitted that the Accused-Appellant has expressed remorse over the

incident.

Learned counsel for the Accused-Appellant submitted that his client

was about 50 years old, when he was convicted and sentenced and as at today

(16.1.2015) he had been incarcerated for a period of over 3 Y2 years in prison.

! I i I 1 j i I I I

I I i

3

Learned counsel urged that the Accused-Appellant's position be considered

sympathetically and invited court to at least consider imposing the minimum I

statutory sentence of 7 years, imprisonment. Learned Addl. Solicitor General I

I,did not really bargain for higher sentence or to have the sentence imposed by

the learned High Court Judge be affirmed but drew the attention of court to

the fact that the Appellant was bold enough to commit the offence of rape

when the victim was in deep slumber along with 18 other women folk in a

large room allotted to all the women folk at the YMBA, Kataragama pilgrim's

rest. They all came on a pilgrimage with their husbands and other male

relatives who occupied the adjoining corridor. Male folks were playing cards

at the time of the incident, in very close proximity to the large room occupied

by the prosecutrix and other women folk.

The incident took place as observed above at night when all the

women folk were sleeping. Prosecutrix's version is that she was suddenly

woken up and found a person on top of her body indulging in sex with her, and

for a few moments she thought it was her husband. She having realised it was

not so and not her husband who would not have done such an act in such an

inhuman manner raised cries and others in the vicinity gave chase and

apprehended the Appellant.

4

In the above background of facts the learned trial Judge cannot be

faulted under any circumstances for the sentence already imposed. A longer

than commensurate sentence may be passed only if the offender has been

convicted of a violent or a sexual offence. As such the Court of Appeal is not

bound to substitute a shortened sentence. On one hand the Court of Appeal as

a Superior Court is bound to protect the society of identified evils. On the

other, some consideration may have to be extended to the offender allowing

himself to be reformed.

We have heard and considered the submissions of learned counsel

for the Appellant and learned Additional Solicitor General. Having given our

mind to all aspects of sentencing, we impose a sentence of 12 years rigorous

imprisonment. Fine imposed by the learned High Court Judge remains

unaltered, but direct that compensation in a sum of Rs. 2500/- be paid to the

victim and in default of payment of compensation a sentence of 6 months

simple imprisonment is also imposed. Sentence of imprisonment of 12 years

R.I will begin to run from the date of conviction of Accused.

i I t I ! I

f !t l i I i

f t

5

Subject to the above variation on sentence this appeal stands

dismissed. Registrar of this court is directed to forward this order and the

record to the relevant High Court.

Sentence altered. ~ G0J~

~FTHECOURT~PEAl

P.R. Walgama

I agree.

-/" ;:i~ JUDGE E C RT 0 APPEAL

! I

\

f