==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DECMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA 53/98 (Final) DC Colombo 8120/RE

Mohomed Praweis Mohomed Roofed No: 265, Kelin Weediya, Colombo 11.

Complainant-Appellant Vs. M.Riswi No: 197, Kelin Weediya, Colombo 11.

Defendent-Respondent

Case No. CA 53/98 (Final) DC Colombo 8120/RE

BEFORE K.T. Chitrasiri, J.

COUNSEL Hussain Ahamed with Vishwajith Munasinghe for

the Plaintiff Appellant.

No appearances for the Respondent.

Both the Appellant and the Respondent are

absent.

ARGUED&

DECIDED ON 08.02.2013

K.T. CHITRASIRI, J.

Counsel for the Appellant informs Court that he has not received

I

instructions from the Appellant to appear in this case. He further

submits that the registered Attorney of the Appellant has written to the

Appellant stating that this appeal would be dismissed in the event he

does not instruct the Attorneys to appear in this case. A copy of the said

letter along with the registered article is being tendered to Court today. In

1

' \ i !

~-!I iI

ff!

1

f

~ fl II

' '

!f

that letter it is clearly informed to the Appellant that the appeal would be ii

dismissed if he does not give instructions to the lawyers to appear.

The Registrar of this Court has sent sev~ral notices to the Appellant

directing him to be present in this Court. The last letter that was sent is

dated 25.08.2012. The above circumstances show that the Appellant is

not prosecuting this appeal diligently. Therefore, this appeal should

stand dismissed in terms of Rule 34 of the Supreme Court Rules.

However, since the Appellant has filed this appeal and has paid the

brief fees, I decide to consider the merits of the appeal. This is an action

filed by the Plaintiff-Appellant to obtain possession of the premises

referred to in the schedule to the plaint. The plaint had been filed on the

basis that the premises in suit is not covered under the provisions

contained in the Rent Act No. 7 of 1972. However, the learned District

Judge has declined to accept that position and had decided that the

premises in suit does come under the purview of the Rent Act. When he

came to the said conclusion, he has carefully considered the evidence

having looked at the evidence of the o:t;ficials from the Colombo

Municipality and the contents of the relevant documents.

2

' '

In the circumstances, I do not see any reason to interfere with the

findings of the learned District Judge. Accordingly, the appeal of the

Appellant is dismissed with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

KRL/-

3

l'J

!i

II

f, l