==== BLOCKS ==== 

I ! I t

f I I I I 1 I I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for Mandates

in the nature of Writ of Certiorari and Writ

of Mandamus under and in terms of Article

140 of the Constitution of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

*******

C.A. (Writ) Application No.284/10

1

1. Priyantha Serasundara

111jBS,Lakshapathiya

Road,

Vs

Lakshapathiya,

Moratuwa.

and 453 others.

PETITIONERS

1. Commissioner General of Labour

Labour Secretariat,

Colombo 05.

2. Athauda Seneviratne,

Minister of Labour Relations and

Foreign Employment,

Labour Secretariat,

Colombo.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

Deepali Wijesundera J.

3. Maliban Biscuit Manufactories ltd.

No. 839, Galle Road,

Ratmalana.

4. Dr. Irvin Jayasuriya

Arbitrator,

Labour Secretariat,

Colombo 05.

RESPONDENTS

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

J.C. Waliamuna with Shantha

Jayawardene for the

Respondents.

Nayomi Kahawita S.S.C. for the

1 st and 2nd Respondents.

Uditha Egalahewa PC with Gihan

Galabadage for the 3rd

respondent.

: 15th October, 2014

: 19th December, 2014

Four hundred and fifty four petitioners have filed this application

seeking a writ of certiorari to quash the Award marked P4 made by the

Arbitrator the 4th respondent. The 2nd respondent has referred the

2

dispute between the 3rd respondent company and the petitioners under

Section 4(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act to the 4th respondent for

settlement. After inquiry the 4th respondent by his award dated

16/02/2010 has held that the services of the petitioners have not been

terminated by the 3rd respondent and that the petitioners have vacated

their own posts and that they are not entitled to any relief and no award

was made in their favour.

The learned counsel for the petitioners stated that the 3rd

respondent who is a leading biscuit manufacturer in Sri Lanka had

refused to pay the 3rd bonus by the end of the 200412005 financial year

to the petitioners as agreed by the Memorandum of settlement entered

between the petitioners and the 3rd respondent marked A1 under

Section 12( 1) of the Industrial Disputes Act. The petitioners have

commenced a protest against this and have also complained to the

Commissioner of Labour. The petitioners stated that posters critical of

two officers of the 3rd respondent erupted in the premises of the 3rd

respondent and on 13/07/2005 the management of the 3rd respondent

closed the factory stating that twenty one employees who were

interdicted threatened and intimidated the said officers of the 3rd

respondent. The workers have continued to protest inside the premises

and were removed by the police and they have been refused entry to

the said premises. The petitioners stated thereafter they were sent

3

letters dated 30107/2005 (A 16) addressed to each of them to resume

work on the 05/08/2005. Thereafter by letters dated 08/05/2005 (A21)

have informed them that their names have been deleted from the

Employees Register of the 3rd respondent. Consequently the 2nd

respondent Minister has referred this dispute for settlement by

Arbitration to the 4th respondent.

The counsel for the petitioners submitted that the petitioners

were on a legal strike and hence vacation of post does not arise. Citing

the judgments in Rubberite Co. Vs Labour Officer, Negombo 1990 2

SLR 42 and Ceylon Mercantile Union Vs Ceylon Cold Stores ltd

and another 1995 1 SLR 261 stated that a strike could be resorted to

improve their wages or conditions or give vent to a grievance and not

against an employee. He further stated that the demands made by the

workers in this application were bona fide and thus it is a lawful strike

and that the 4th respondent erred in law in holding that the workers

vacated their posts by engaging in the strike. He submitted that when

workmen are on strike the question of vacation of post does not arise.

The petitioners' counsel stated that the two elements in the

concept of vacation of post which is mental and physical has to be

established before it is decided there is a vacation of post and cited the

4

IilI,

ffi

t!

i

judgment in Nelson De Silva Vs Sri lanka State Engineering

Corporation 1996 2 SlR 342.

The petitioners stated that the reference by the 2nd respondent to

the 4th respondent was to determine whether the termination of the

services were justified or not and that the 4th respondent exceeded the

mandate given by deciding the services of the workmen have not been

terminated by the 3rd respondent but the employees themselves have

vacated their posts. He stated that the Arbitrator derives jurisdiction from

the reference and any deviation from the reference is considered to be

ultra vires.

The learned Deputy Solicitor General for the respondents

submitted that the alleged grounds that the Arbitrator has exceeded the

powers vested in him under the Industrial Disputes Act by coming to a

wrong decision on the facts and the law which can not be set aside in a

writ application and should be taken up in an appeal.

The counsel for the respondents submitted that at the inquiry

before the 4th respondent the 3rd respondent stated that the petitioners

were asked to report to work before a certain date if not they will be

5

considered as not interested in their jobs but still they did not return to

work. He further submitted that the petitioners in their petition has

specifically stated that they did not vacate their posts but the 3rd

respondent terminated their services on disciplinary grounds which

shows that the 4th respondent had to decide whether they have vacated

their posts or their services were terminated by the 3rd respondent.

Citing the judgment in Jayaweera Vs Commissioner of Agrarian

Services 1996 2 SLR 70 stated if the petitioners were of the view that

the 4th respondent had no power to inquire into the question of vacation

of post they should have objected to that matter being considered at that

point, without doing so they can not now plead the 4th respondent acted

in excess of jurisdiction.

The counsel for the respondents submitted the main issue for

the 4th respondent to decide was on the evidence placed before him,

was whether there was a vacation of post or not therefore the petitioners

can not say the 4th respondent's decision is illegal.

The petitioners who kept away from work were sent letters to their

houses to report back to work on the 5th of August 2005, but they have

kept away from work and the 3rd respondent company has sent the

vacation of post letters on the 8th of August three days after the date

6

i I II,

If t t

they were asked to resume work. The petitioners' counsel mentioned

about the concept of vacation of post which is the mental element and

the physical element failed he said as the petitioners did not intend to

keep away from work therefore the mental element fails. Petitioners

even after the 3rd respondent sent letters to resume work did not

respond which show they did not want to report back to work. Therefore

the petitioners can not say there was no mental element.

The petitioners argument was that the 2nd respondent's reference

to the 4th respondent was to see the termination of services was justified

or not and not to decide whether there has been a termination. To go

into this he had to see what led to the termination, by doing so he had

come to the conclusion that there was no termination but the petitioners

have kept away without resuming work when asked to report, thereby

they have vacated their posts. This is not ultra vires the 4th respondent

has acted within the reference given to him by the Minister. One can not

say the 4th respondent exceeded his powers.

Petitioners at the inquiry have not objected to the 4th respondent

taking up the issue of termination of work therefore they now can not

say the 4th respondent acted in excess of jurisdiction.

7

I

I

For the afore stated reasons this court is of the view that the

petitioners application for writ can not be granted. The petition is

dismissed without costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

8