==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 154/2008

Lakshman Jinadasa

459, Lekam Niwasa

Polmalagama, Meethalawa,

Gampola.

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

Vs.

H.C. Panadura 1526/2001

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake J.

Attorney General,

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

RESPONDENT

Anil Silva P.c., for the Accused-Appellant

Dilan Ratnayake S.S.c. for the Respondent

21.03.2014

02.04.2014

1

2

GOONERATNE J.

The Accused-Appellant was convicted of murder and sentenced to

death (1st count). He was also convicted of attempted murder and sentenced

to a term of 5 years rigorous imprisonment on the 2nd count. The Accused-

Appellant being aggrieved by the said conviction and sentence, has appealed

to this court. The facts of this may be briefly summarized as follows:

Witness No.1 for the prosecution, a Sub-Inspector of Police at the

time he gave evidence before the High Court, was on guard duty at the

residence of Minister Gamini Lokuge. He was attached to the Piliyandala

police. The residence of Minister was situated at Maviththara in the Piliyandala

on the Kottawa Piliyandala Road. This witness was on duty from 6 p.m to 6 a.m

on the day in question. Witness describes the situation of the house and the

place where he was on guard duty, details of the entrance gate (one entrance)

and about sufficient light provided by the search light affixed to the telephone

post just outside the residence on the road leading to the house which gives

sufficient light even to the garden and premises of the house. At about 10.30

p.m a person in Army uniform armed with a T56 weapon (Accused-Appellant)

3

came near the gate and the witness inquired from the Accused-Appellant

about his presence. Accused-Appellant informed the witness that he is from

the Panagoda Army Camp and had been assigned for guard duty, at the

Minister's residence. Witness had replied that such an arrangement was not

made known to him, and in order to verify this fact witness turned back to

inquire from another police officer (deceased) who was resting inside the

premises (Hewage Ratnayake) as to whether an Army guard was also assigned

for guard duty. When deceased Ranatunge replied in the negative both of

them went up to the Deceased-Appellant, and spoke to him. Accused-

Appellant referring to the Minister as 'boss' said he wants to meet the

Minister. When he was told that the Minister is not available and both the

witnesses and deceased Ranathunga turned to walk towards the road and

almost at the same moment the Accused shot the witness at a distance of

about 2 ~ feet, with the T 56 gun. He fired 3 shots. Witness sustained injuries

to his stomach and the deceased who was attempting to get away from that

place also was shot. Deceased ran towards the shops on the other side of the

road but the Accused-Appellant gave chase behind the deceased and shot him.

Witness saw the deceased falling on the ground.

4

The witness thereafter tried to locate the deceased who was

proceeding towards the shops or the road side, but at that moment could not

locate the deceased as well as the Accused. Witness also heard another gun

shot. Witness had identified the Accused-Appellant.

At the hearing before this court the learned President's Counsel for

the Appellant did not contest the above incident as such but took up a novel

Position. It was his submission that his client the Accused-Appellant did not

have a fair hearing since his defence had not been properly placed before the

learned High Court Judge mainly due to the reason that about 4 counsel

appeared for the Accused at different and various stages of the trial.

The learned President's Counsel also thought it fit to submit to this

court that the position in the United Kingdom is that a fair trial would mean

inter alia that the defence of an Accused need to be placed properly before

court without any prejudice being caused to the Accused and in the event the

legally acceptable defenses are not placed by counsel the accused person

would be entitled for a fresh trial or re-trial.

Article 13(3) of the Constitution enacts:

Any person charged with an offence shall be entitled to be heard, in person or by an

attorney-at-law, at a fair trial by a competent court.

t

5

Section 41(1) of the Judicature Act states that:

Every Attorney-at-Law shall be entitled to assist and advise clients and to appear, plead or

act in every court or other institution established by law for the administration of justice

and every person who is a party to or has or claims to have the right to be heard in any

proceeding in any such court or other such institution shall be entitled to be represented by

an attorney-at-law.

The right to be heard as contained in the above provision would

mean right to be heard by counsel. This is no doubt part of the adversarial

process. Section 26 of the Code of Criminal Procedure gives an Accused person

the right to legal representation in court. As such the law on point does not

seem to extend to the point stressed by learned President's Counsel, Nor can

court test the competency of counsel and give directions to Accused persons

the manner of conducting the trial where the accused has retained counsel, or

represented by assigned counsel. I cannot find any statutory provision to

support the views of learned President's Counsel. What is stressed in our law is

that the Accused cannot be denied representation through counselor

Attorney-at-law.

However before I conclude I prefer to get to a closer point of learned

President's Counsel argument. The following may be noted - Judicial Conduct

Ethics & responsibilities - A.R.B. Amarasingeh pg. 832.

I

6

What is the position if, counsel, by 'agreement or concessions, tacit or explicit',

erroneously take a certain view of the law? Bennion said:

The court ought not to feel itself inhibited by the fact that what seems to it was the

correct view of the law was advanced by neither side in argument. Counsel should

however be given an opportunity to comment on the conclusion reached in such a

judicial departure.

It is not only prudent but also a judge's duty, howsoever learned a judge may suppose

himself or herself to be, to approach a case with inquiry and doubt. Bacons aid in his Essays

that a judge should be 'more learned than witty (ingenious)' 'more advised than confident',

and that 'it is no grace to a judge first to find that which he might have heard in due time

from the Bar, or to show quickness of conceit in cutting off evidence or counsel too short, or

to prevent information by questions, though pertinent ... Let not the judge meet the cause

half way, nor give occasion to the party to say, his counselor proof were not heard.

At the hearing of an appeal of this nature court will hear the defence

version initially and then hear the prosecution with a right to reply and decide

the case. The point raised by President's Counsel is of much interest and the

law need to develop in our jurisdiction. However we are not inclined to test

this point mainly due to the fact that all 4 counsel retained to appear for the

appellant were the choice of the Accused-Appellant. Nor can this court

comment on the competency of counsel except to decide the appeal on the

lapses/weakness and or the strength of the prosecution case according to law.

7

The learned High Court Judge has considered the case with extra care

1

and comprehensively dealt with the case. There is in fact very strong direct

evidence and the only conclusion to arrive is a conviction. We see no basis to

interfere with this appeal. We are unable to intervene in the conviction and

sentence. As such the appeal is dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

I