==== BLOCKS ==== 

1 \ I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 109 / 2000 F

D.C. Ratnapura No. 6199/ P

1. N ayani Manohari Balasuriya, (Minor) 2. Hubert Balasuriya (Next Friend), Both of No 52, Old Road, Veralupe, Ratnapura.

Plaintiffs

Vs.

1. Ramanayake Arachchilage Lakshman Ramanayake, 2. Ramanayake Sarthchandra Ramanayake, 3. R. A. Appuhamy, All of Kalawana.

AND NOW BETWEEN

Defendants

1. Ramanayake Arachchilage Lakshman Ramanayake, 2. Ramanayake Sarthchandra Ramanayake, 3. R. A. Appuhamy (deceased), 3a. Ramanayake Arachchilage Lakshman Ramanayake, 3b. Ramanayake Sarathchandra Ramanayake, All of Kalawana.

Defendant Appellants

Vs

I

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

1. N ayani Manohari Balasuriya, (Minor)

2. Hubert Balasuriya (Next Friend), Both of No 52, Old Road, Veralupe, Ratnapura.

Plaintiff Respondents

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

Anuruddha Darmaratne with Upendra

Walgampaya for the 3a and 3b Defendant

Appellants

R.M.D. Bandara with W.E. De Silva for the

Plaintiff Respondents

30.07.2013

22.10.2013

The Plaintiff Respondents (hereinafter referred to as the

Respondents) instituted the said action against the 1

8t and 2nd Defendant

Appellants in the District Court of Ratnapura seeking to partition the land

described in the schedule to the plaint. The 3rd Defendant Appellant has been

added as a party to the action after the completion of preliminary survey. After trial

the learned Additional District Judge has delivered a judgment in favour of the

t

3

Respondents. Being aggrieved by the said judgement dated 22.02.2000 the 1 st 2nd

and 3 rd Defendant Appellants (hereinafter referred to as the Appellants) have

preferred the instant appeal to this court.

At the hearing of this appeal both parties admitted that upon the issue

No 05 raised by the Appellants, the sole question to be dealt with by this court is

that whether Sujatha Thilakarathna one of the four children of R. A. Thilakaratne

had married in 'Diga' and thereby had forfeited her rights to the paternal

inheritance.

It was common ground that the marrIage between said Sujatha

Thilakaratne and the 2nd Appellant had been registered under the General

Marriages Ordinance. The learned counsel for the Appellants contended that under

and in terms of Section 28(1) of the Kandyan Marriage and Divorce Act said

marriage of Sujatha Thilakaratne is presumed to be in "Dega". The Respondents

contended that although the marriage between said Sujatha Thilakeratne and the

2nd Respondent had been registered under the General Marriages Ordinance, by

conduct she had regained 'binna' rights and hence she had not forfeited her rights

to the paternal inheritance.

Section 28(1) of the Kandyan Marriage and Divorce Act reads thus;

2 8( 1) The registration under this Act of a Kandyan marriage shall be

the best evidence of the marriage before all courts and in all

proceedings in which it may be necessary to give evidence of

the marriage. Where the marriage registration entry, which

under section 23 (3) constitutes such registration, does not

\

1

4

indicate whether the marriage was contracted in binna or diga,

the marriage shall be presumed to have been contracted in diga

until the contrary is proved.

Section 3(2) of the said Act stipulates that "The fact that a marriage,

between persons subject to Kandyan law, is solemnized and registered under the

Marriage Registration Ordinance shall not affect the rights of such persons, or of

other persons claiming title from or through such persons, to succeed to property

under and in accordance with the Kandyan law.

On the other hand Section 9( 1) of the Kandyan Law (Declaration and

Amendment) Ordinance No 39 of 1938 (Cap. 59) stipulates that "A marriage

contracted after the commencement of this Ordinance in binna or in diga shall be

and until dissolved shall continue to be, for all purposes of the law governing the

succession to the estates of deceased persons, a binna or a diga marriage, as the

case may be, and shall have full effect as such ; and no change after any such

marriage in the residence of either party to that marriage and no conduct after any

such marriage of either party to that marriage or of any other person shall convert

or be deemed to convert a binna marriage into a diga marriage or a diga marriage

into a binna marriage or cause or be deemed to cause a person married in diga to

have the rights of succession of a person married in binna, or a person married in

binna to have the rights of succession of a person married in diga."

It seems that the parties who have married after the commg into

operation of the Kandyan Law (Declaration and Amendment) Ordinance cannot

regain 'binna' rights or 'diga' rights on account of their conduct. According to the

marriage certificate (P 7) the marriage between said Sujatha Thilaratne and Hubert

5

Balasuriya (2nd Appellant) has been registered on 20th of January 1977. It is clear

that Sujatha Thilakeratne had married after the coming into operation of the

Kandyan Law (Declaration and Amendment) Ordinance of39 of 1938 (Cap. 59).

In the case ofR. P. D. Gunasena vs. R. P. D. Ukku Menika 78 N.L.R.

529 it had transpired that Ukku Menika (the 2nd Respondent) was married in diga

to one William on the 11th of July 1935; William was a man from Aragoda. Kiri

Menika (the 3rd Respondent) was married in diga to one Sirimali of Ballapana on

the 14th of October, 1938. The youngest daughter Dingiri Menika (the 4th

Respondent) married one James of Aragoda, also in diga on the 24th of October

1944. His Lordship Tennakoon CJ held that "I would accordingly hold that the 2nd

Respondent Ukku Menika and the 3rd Respondent Kiri Menika were heirs of

Sendiya. In the case of the 4th Respondent Dingiri Menika (Dingu), she having

married after the coming into operation of the Kandyan Law (Declaration and

Amendment) Ordinance (Cap. 59) cannot be admitted to binna rights in view of

section 9 (1) of that Ordinance. That section provides inter alia, that: 'No conduct

after any marriage whether binna or of either party to that marriage or any other

person shall.. cause or be deemed to cause a person married in diga to have the

rights of succession of a person married in binna or a person married in binna to

have the rights of succession, of a person married in diga.'

The learned District Judge has held that all three sisters are heirs of

the deceased Sendiya and entitled to shares in the immovable properties. While

affirming his decision in so far as it concerns the 2nd and 3rd respondent sisters, I

would allow the appeal only so far as it concerns the 4th respondent and hold that

she the 4th respondent is not entitled to succeed to her deceased father's immovable

properties."

f!

t

\

6

In the said circumstances I hold that said Sujatha Thilakaretne who

had married in 'diga' had forfeited her rights to the paternal inheritance and hence

by conduct she could not regain such rights in view of the mandatory provisions

contained in Section 9(1) of the Kandyan Law (Declaration and Amendment)

Ordinance. Hence the issue No 01 should be answered in the negative and the

issues No 05 and 06 should be answered in the affirmative. Therefore I allow the

appeal of the Appellants with costs.

Appeal allowed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal