==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI

LANKA

C.A. Appeal No. 365/97(F)

D.C. Negombo No. 6848/M

On this 23rd day of January 2013

01. Karawgodage Don Weetus Modas Anthony Jayawardene, No 263, Daluwakotuwa, Koch chikade. 02. Dona Polin Mary Jayawardene, (Nee Jayasooriya) No.263, Daluwakotuwa,Kochchcikade.

Plaintiffs

Vs

01. Rohanage Ranjith Chrishantha Fernando No422/A, Godawatte Rd, Dalupotha,Negombo.

02 Senarath Arachchige Don Anton Bonifas Appuhamy No.288. Chilaw Rd, Daluwakotuwa, Kochchikade.

Defendants AND BETWEEN

Senarath Arachchige Don Anton Bonifas Appuhamy ,No.288. Chilaw Rd, Daluwakotuwa, Kochchikade.

02nd Defendant Appellant Vs

(Deceased) 01. Karawgodage Don Weetus Modas Anthoney Jayawardene. 0 1A. Karawgodage Don Shihan Johnson Jayawardene

Substituted Plaintiff Respondent 02. Dona Polin Mary Jayawardene (Nee Jayasooriya) all from,

No.263.Daluwakotuwa,Kochchcikade.

Plaintiff Respondents

01. Rohanage Ranjith ChrishanthaFernando, No.422/A, Godawatte Rd,

Dalupotha,Negombo.

01"1Defendant Respondent

1

I

C.A.No.365/97{F)

Before

Counsel

Argued & Decided on

K.T.Chitrasiri, I.

D.C.Negombo No.6848/M

K.T.Chitrasiri, J

Sunil Cooray with Amila Kiripitiya for the Defendant-

Appellant

Asiri Dissanayake for 1A Substituted Plaintiff-Respondent

23.01.2013

Counsel for both parties submit that the dispute in this matter has

now been settled between the parties. Terms of Settlement have been

recorded and the document containing jp- the said terms of settlement is

being tendered to Court. In that document all the parties have placed their

signatures agreeing to the terms of settlement.

In the terms of settlement tendered today, the 2nd defendant-

appellant namely Senarath Aracchige Don Anton Bonifas Appuhamy hands

over a cheque for a sum of Rs.300,000/- to the 1A substituted plaintiff-

respondent namely K.D.Shihan Jayawardena in open Court.

'

f I I I

'

I i ' i

\

I I t f I

\

\

t I

J I

\ri

I-tifrl

\

lA substituted plaintiff-respondent and the 2nd plaintiff-respondent

accept the aforesaid cheque given by the 2nd defendant-appellant. The

judgment delivered in the District Court of Negombo is varied to the extent

referred to in the terms of settlement contained in the document tendered to

Court today. The learned District Judge of Negombo is directed to enter the

decree accordingly.

In view of the aforesaid terms of settlement the proceedings in this

t\.. Court is terminated. Registrar of this Court is directed to file photo copy of fi--

" the document containing the terms of settlement to this docket and the

original to the original case record.

Proceedings terminated.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

KLP/-

2

'

! !