==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. 215/2010

H.C. Galle 2701/2006

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Sunil Rajapaksa J.

Nandasiri Kumaranayake

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDENT

Jagath Abeynayake for the Accused-Appellant

Shanaka Wijesinghe D.S.G for the Complainant-Respondent

25.06.2014

30.09.2014

1

2

GOONERATNE J.

The Accused-Appellant was indicted for the murder of

Samarasinghe K. Sena on or about 19.10.2002. He was convicted and

sentenced to death. Two witnesses for the prosecution being sister and

mother of the deceased gave evidence. Sister testifies that the deceased

brother was at home and when they were having tea her mother having notice

that the deceased nose and face was swollen, had questioned the deceased as

to what happened and he replied that he was assaulted by the Accused.

Deceased had been at home the entire day of the incident and the Accused

had come home at about 8.30 p.m when the deceased was watching

television. Accused was near the door step and had with him an iron pole.

Accused was told by deceased's mother, to come some other time since he

was not in his proper senses. Accused had reacted and started to abuse them

in bad language and had struck the door posts with the iron pole. The other

witness the mother of the deceased saw to it that that the Accused left the

premises and followed him. Thereafter the sister also went behind the mother

after about 5 minutes.

3

The testimony of the 1st witness reveal that the Accused even

attacked the deceased mother with the iron pole near the Buddha statute in

the vicinity, when the mother followed the Accused. Sister of the deceased

also came to the scene of the crime and the Accused had also attempted to

attack the sister. The deceased also arrived at the scene and the Accused

attacked the deceased with the iron pole which properly is described as '~

oC)co' (Pi). The witnesses answer about the attack could be described in the

manner it is recorded, in the brief as follows (folio 423).

The learned defence counsel in his submissions to court submitted

that weapon used in the commission of the offence was not properly

identified. He also submitted that it is not safe to act upon the evidence of the

prosecution witnesses due to several contradictions, and contradictions inter

\

4

se between witnesses. Both the 1st and 2nd witnesses are unreliable witnesses

according to learned defence counsel. As regards the weapon, contradiction

V5, V11 & V12 concerning assault with weapon on witness and witness's

mother were emphasized by the defence counsel. It was also suggested that

the Accused was in hospital when the Section 27 Evidence Ordinance Recovery

was made and in reality no such weapon could have been recovered based on

a Section 27 Evidence Ordinance Recovery. It was the learned counsel's

reasoning that police evidence reveal that the Accused was hospitalized.

Learned Deputy Solicitor General submitted to this court that

although there were about 12 contradictions marked during the course of the

proceedings, none of the contradictions would be material to the prosecution

case and are not relevant in the context and circumstances of the case. It was

also pointed out that there is no record or evidence to support the contention

that the Accused continued to be hospitalized. It was the position that material

does not suggests that Accused had been warded and continued to be in

hospital for a period, and as such learned defence counsel's submissions as

regards the Section 27 recovery does not cause any doubt in the prosecution

5

case. Learned Deputy Solicitor General referred to the evidence at folio 401 &

400 which suggests motive. Previous conduct and subsequent conduct of

Accused. It was also suggested that the medical evidence in all respects

support the prosecution case.

The medical evidence reveal that almost all the injuries had been

inflicted above the shoulders, concentrated on upper areas of the body

inclusive of the head, nose, forehead, eyebrows etc. Blows from the weapon

had an impact on the brain, caused with certain amount of force. The medical

officer has expressed an opinion that the injuries could have been caused as

above by the iron pole or iron strip marked PI. Medical evidence no doubt

support the prosecution version. Accused had, according to the prosecution

version, assaulted the deceased prior to attacking with the iron weapon, which

caused the death subsequently. Deceased's mother had inquired about

swollen face of deceased and the reply to such a question was that the

deceased had been assaulted earlier, by the Accused-Appellant. On the day of

the incident the Accused-Appellant had visited the house of the deceased

party and had threatened all of them. He was also under the influence of

liquor. The scene of crime of attack with the iron strip (P1) by accused was in

close proximity to the house of the deceased and near the Buddha statue. All

6

these items of evidence described above and threats of the Accused party

aimed towards the deceased remain as uncontradicted evidence.

Accused had given a dock statements. I agree with the views of the

trial Judge that the evidence of the Accused-Appellant does not really touch

upon the incident and as such, and no explanation of the incident had been

really divulged by the Accused. Accused attempt to impress that the deceased

had demanded some money in the morning on the day of the main incident

and on his refusal, the Accused had to suffer some loss to his house as a result

of an attack by the deceased followed with certain injuries caused to himself.

Further the Accused had stated that the two prosecution witnesses had lied to

court. Therefore I have no reason to fault the learned High Court Judge's views

that the Accused version had not been capable enough to cause a reasonable

doubt in the prosecution case.

There were about 12 contradictions marked and the defence made

specific reference to same. However the question is whether these

contradictions are material or immaterial to the case in hand. Such

contradiction should be capable of going to the root of the case. I agree with

7

the learned Deputy Solicitor General that none of these contradictions are

capable of damaging the prosecution case. In this case it is unnecessary for the

Appellate Court to divert its attention to all of them. I would endorse the views

of the trial Judge on same as reflected in his judgment at folios 295 -299 of the

brief/record. In any event contradiction marked V6, has been considered with

cogent reason by the trial Judge, which connects the weapon used, whether it

was a manna knife or an iron pole or belt (c.olmID oCko). Trial Judge has

approached this point, with the available light at the time of the incident to be

around 8.30 p.m. Trial Judge's views of the specific weapon used for

committing the offence in the above background with sufficient light need not

be faulted.

Discrepancies which do not go to the root of the matter and shake

the basic version of the witnesses, therefore cannot be attached with undue

importance. More so when the all important "probabilities - factor" echoes in

favour of the version narrated by the witnesses Bhoginbhais case (AIR 1983

Supreme Court 753-1983 Cri U 1096) .

In all the above facts and circumstances of this case, it is our view

that the prosecution has proved the case beyond reasonable doubt. There is

III

I ! t 1 1 I ,

1 ,

8

no way in which this court need to interfere with the verdict of the trial Judge.

We affirm the conviction and sentence, and dismiss this appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

~A\}-J~ ~(OFTHE~EAL

N.S. Rajapaksa J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL