==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 581 I 2000 F D.C. Monaragala No. 1848 I M

W eerasekera Mudiyaselage J ayatilake,

(Deceased) Gardiya Punchihewage Chandrawathie, Dambagalle Junction, Monaragala.

Substituted Plaintiff Vs.

1. Dr. P.A. D. Darmathilake, Athurugiriya, Millewa, Horana.

And 05 Others

Defendants

And Now Between

W eerasekera Mudiyaselage J ayatilake,

(Deceased) Gardiya Punchihewage Chandrawathie, Dambagalle Junction, Monaragala.

Substituted Plaintiff -Appellant

Vs

1. Dr. P. A. D. Darmathilake, Athurugiriya, Millewa, Horana.

And 05 Others

Defendants-Respondents

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

2

UP AL Y ABEYRA THNE, J.

Ashiq Hassin with Chulani Hettiarachchi for

the substituted Plaintiff Appellant

Vickum De Abrew SSC for the Defendant

Respondent

19.03.2013

09.07.2013

The Plaintiff Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant) has

instituted the said action against 1st to 6th Defendant Respondents (hereinafter

referred to as the Respondents) in the District Court of Monaragala praying for a

judgment to recover a sum of Rs.3,500,000/- as damages. The Respondents has

prayed for a dismissal of the Appellant's action. The case proceeded to trial upon

33 issues. After trial, the learned Additional District Judge has dismissed the

Appellant's action. Being aggrieved by the said judgment dated 26.07.2000 the

Appellant has appealed to this court.

The Appellant's case was that he was bitten by a dog on 19.02.1993

and he took medical treatments from the Monaragala District Hospital. At the said

Hospital the 1st Respondent has prescribed Anti-rabies Vaccine (ARV) daily for 14

days. Accordingly ARV has been given to the Appellant for about 10 days without

any complaint. But on 01.03.1993 when the Appellant was back at home after

treatments he has shown certain symptoms and has been admitted to the District

3

Hospital, Monaragala and later transferred to Badulla Hospatal and General

Hospital, Colombo, respectively. The Appellant position was that the said ailments

were occasioned as a result of the 1st Respondent's treatments in that the 1st

Respondent has been negligent in prescribing ARV without carrying out a pre-

testing and thereby the 1st Respondent was guilty of negligence in the discharge of

her professional duties.

The 1st Respondent contended that the Appellant has failed to prove

the professional negligence of the 1st Respondent. No doubt that the Appellant has

made an attempt to impose a delictual liability upon the 1st Respondent. It is

manifest that today the delict known as damnum injuria datum created by the Lex

Acquilia has become a general remedy for loss wrongfully caused by another under

the Roman Dutch Law. In contrast, under the English Law, the Common Law has

developed a specific delict of negligence (See The History of Negligence in the

Law of Torts- Winfield 1926 42 LQR 184).

Requisites of an action under the Lex Acquilia have been expressed

by different text writers in different ways; but substantially they are the same.

Wickramanayake, gives the requisites as;

(i) The plaintiff must show actual pecuniary loss. An exception is the

award of compensation for physical pain suffered by a person injured

through the negligence of another.

(ii) He must show that the loss was due to the unlawful act of the

defendant or that the defendant was acting in excess of his rights.

(iii) He must show dolus or culpa on the part of the defendant (The Law

of Delict in Ceylon 1949).

4

Me Kerron, states the essentials of liability in the Acquilian action are

(i) a wrongful act, (ii) pecuniary loss resulting to the plaintiff, and (iii) fault on the

part of the defendant (The Law of Delict 1965).

In the case of Professor Priyani Soyza vs. Rienzie Arsecularatne

(2001) 2 SLR 118 Dheeraratne, J. observed that "The accepted test currently

applied in the English Law to determine the standard of care of a skilled

professional, commonly referred to as the Bolam test, is based on the dicta of Me

Nair J. in his address to the jury, in Bolam Vs. Friern Hospital Management

Committeee (1957) 2 ALL E.R. 118. At page 122 he explained "A doctor is not

guilty of negligence if he has acted in accordance with a practice accepted as

proper by a responsible body of medical men skilled in that particular art ..... .

Putting it another way round, a doctor is not negligent, if he is acting in accordance

with such a practice, merely because there is a body of opinion that takes a

contrary view." The Bolam test is a departure from the test of the hypothetical

reasonable skilled professional. The former places emphasis on the standards

which are in fact adopted by the profession, while the latter concerns itself with

what ought to have been done in the circumstances."

In the light of the said premise it seems that a doctor is not guilty of

negligence if he has acted accordance with the practice accepted as proper by a

responsible body of medical men skilled in that particular art. The Respondent has

not adduced evidence in order to establish that there has been a pre-testing to be

carried out prior to the prescribing of ARV to a patient complained of a dog bite.

On the other hand it has been in evidence that at the time relevant to this action

ARV was the only treatment available to a person complained of a dog bite.

5

It must be noted that the rabies virus is a neurotropic virus that causes

fatal disease in human and animals. Rabies transmission can occur through the

saliva of animals. Rabies virus causes acute infection of the central nervous

system. Five general stages are recognized in humans: incubation, prodrome, acute

neurologic period, coma, and death. The incubation period is exceptionally

variable, ranging from fewer than 10 days to longer than 2 years, but is usually 1 to

3 months. Early diagnosis is difficult. Rabies should be suspected in human cases

of unexplained viral encephalitis with a history of animal bite. Unvaccinated

persons are often negative for virus-neutralizing antibodies until late in the course

of disease.

When I consider the seriousness of the decease it is clear that the 1st

Respondent did not have any other option other than administering ARV to the

Appellant. On the other hand the 1st Respondent was bound by accepted norms and

principles of the medical profession to treat the Appellant with the available

medicine in order to save his life. Hence the 1st Respondent cannot be blamed in

administering ARV to the Appellant.

In the said circumstances I see no reason to interfere with the

judgement of the Learned Additional District Judge dated 26.07.2000. Hence I

dismiss the appeal of the Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal