==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA Case No: 13/1998(F) DC Colombo Case No: 6213/ZL

Duleep Mangala de Silva 289 2/1, Dean's Road, Colombo 10.

-Defendant-Appellant- Vs. Maris Primali Dilanthi No: 48, Muhandiram Lane, Dehiwala.

-Plaintiff-Respondent-

C.A. 13/1998

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED &

DECIDED ON:

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J

D.C.Colombo Case No.6213/ZL

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J.

Nihal Jayamanne PC with Anandalal Nanayakkara

and Dilhan de Silva Attorneys-at-Law for Defendant-Appellant

Plaintiff-Respondent is absent and unrepresented.

21.02.2013

When this matter was mentioned on the last date namely 21.11.2012, it had

been recorded that the notice issued on the plaintiff-respondent (hereinafter referred

to as the plaintiff) was returned with an endorsement that she is not found at the

given address. The said notice had been sent to the address given in the petition of

appeal. Notice issued on the Registered Attorney of the plaintiff also had been

returned stating that he is dead. Accordingly this appeal is taken up for hearing in

the absence of the plaintiff-respondent.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the judgment dated 17.11.1997 of the

learned District Judge of Colombo. By that judgment, the learned District Judge

decided the case in favour of the plaintiff as prayed for in the prayer to the plaint

dated 24.11.1989.

2

Learned Counsel for the defendant-appellant (hereinafter referred to as the

defendant) submits that the learned District Judge had not considered the matters

pertaining to the issues bearing Nos. 8, 9 and 14 raised by the defendant. He further

submits that had the learned District Judge properly evaluated the evidence relating

to those issues, he would have dismissed the action of the plaintiff having answered

the said issues 8, 9 and 14 affirmatively.

Aforesaid three issues are on the basis of fraud alleged to have committed

by the plaintiff with the knowledge of the Notary who executed the deeds upon

which the claim of the plaintiff had been made. Committing fraud had been raised

on the basis that:

> The signatures found on the two deeds marked P4 and P7 have been

placed on blank forms which were intended to use as the deeds upon which

the plaintiff claim title to the land in dispute;

> The two signatures of the Notary found on the Deed of Transfer and on the

Agreement to Sell are visibly different to the naked eye even though both

the deeds had been executed by one and the same Notary namely, Susantha

Mahes Munasinghe.

I will now consider whether the learned District Judge had properly

evaluated the evidence relating to the said issues suggested by the defendant in

order to ascertain whether any fraud had been committed when executing the two

deeds marked P4 and P7. The defendant in his evidence had clearly stated that he

3

was asked to sign on blank sheets and he did so. (Page 168 of the brief) This

evidence of the defendant had not been controverted at any time. The witness

Lesley Gratian Fernando, who had been working as the Manager in the Institution

by the name of T.M.L.Associates where the deeds in question supposed to have

executed, had said that large number of blank deeds were given for him to obtain

signatures of various vendors whose deeds were executed by the Notary

Munasinghe. (Page 197 of the brief)

Even the plaintiff herself in her evidence had admitted that she had been

working as one of the clerks at T.M.L. Associates owned by Susantha Mahes

Munasinghe who is the Notary who executed the two deeds P4 and P7. (Page 78

and 79 of the brief) On one hand, she being a person who had been working with

witness Lesley Fernando at T.M.L.Associates should have known the practice of

the Notary Munasinghe as described by the said witness Fernando and on the other

hand, had the plaintiff disputed the practice of obtaining signatures on blank forms

that were being used to execute deeds, Counsel for the plaintiff who appeared in the

lower Court should have questioned the witness Fernando on this aspect. No such

evidence is found in the original record.

The plaintiff herself in her evidence had admitted that the two signatures

alleged to have placed on the two deeds marked P4 and P7 by the Notary

Munasinghe are clearly different to each other. She, without any hesitation had said

so even though those signatures are of the one and the same person. (Page 108 of

4

the brief) Moreover, she had said that she did not intend to call the Notary or the

two witnesses to the deeds in order to prove proper execution of the two deeds P4

and P7 though those were marked subject to proof at the trial.

The evidence referred to above shows that the deeds on which the plaintiff

claim title had been completed or written after the signatures were obtained on the

blank forms prior to the placing of the signatures of the Notary. Furthermore, two

signatures of the Notary who executed the two deeds upon which the plaintiff claim

title are visibly different to each other even according to the plaintiff even though

those two signatures are of the same Notary namely S.M.Munasinghe.

Such evidence alone is sufficient to prove fraud committed at the time, the

two deeds P4 and P7 were executed. Even though the evidence mentioned above

had been referred to by the learned District Judge in his judgment, he has not

evaluated the said evidence and its possible outcome. Also, it is incorrect on the

part of the learned District Judge to have disregarded the consequences of the

evidence in relation to the fraud alleged to have committed at the time the two

deeds P4 and P7 were executed. Had he addressed his mind on those lines, learned

trial Judge would have decided the issues 8, 9 and 14 affirmatively.

In view of the above, it is my opinion that the learned District Judge had

misdirected himself when answering the issues 8, 9 and 14 even though adequate

evidence was available to answer those issues affirmatively. Against this

5

background, the plaintiff cannot claim title to the land in question particularly when

there is evidence to establish fraud.

For the aforesaid reasons, I set aside the judgment dated 17.11.997 of the learned

District Judge of Colombo.

Accordingly, this appeal is allowed with costs.

Appeal allowed

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL