==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

Suhada Gamalath Secretary to the Ministry of Justice And Law Reforms Superior Courts Complex, Colombo 12.

PETITIONER-PETITIONER C.A Revision No (PHC) APN 3/2010 H. C. Colombo HCWA 112009

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Sisira de Abrew J. & Anil Gooneratne J.

Vs.

Kristina Ivasauskaite-Rosario 90, Avenue De Saint Quen 75018 Paris France.

1ST RESPONDENT-RESPONDENT

Prajith Rosario 5391 All, Eldeniya Kadawatha.

2nd RESPONDENT-RESPONDENT

N. Wigneswaran S.C with Deepthi Thilakawardene S.C for the Petitioner Harsha Nanayakkara for the 15t Respondent-Respondent Romesh de Silva President's Counsel with Shanaka Ranasinghe, Sugath Caldera, Ranil Samarasuriya and Shanaka Cooray for the 2nd Respondent-Respondent

9.3.2011, 10.3.2011, 15.3.2011 and 18.3.2011

01.06.2011

2

GOONERATNE J.

I have had the advantage of reading the judgment of my brother

Justice, Sisira de Abrew. I find myself able to agree with reasons and

conclusions, reached by him. However this case being on an important issue

concerning a child who is not of Sri Lankan origin and where her parents

both foreigners involved in a legal battle to take over the child. I thought it

fit to express my own views. No doubt our order would benefit one of the

parents but I would emphasis the fact that the function of this court is only to

consider whether the order of the learned High Court Judge need to be

revised, in keeping with the provisions of Act No. 10 of 200 1, which cast an

obligation to return the child to the relevant country if the child has been

wrongfully removed from one country to another.

The scheme of the said Act is to give effect to the Hague

Convention on the civil aspects of International Child Abduction. The

learned High Court Judge has on a very basic matter held that the Petitioner

before the High Court (now 1 st Respondent) had not complied with Section

6(3) of the said Act. The said Section 6 deal with application to Central

Authority for assistance to secure return of the child. Subsection (3) of

Section 6 requires the application and the annexed documents to same shall

have a translation in Sinhala, Tamil or English. This is no doubt a procedural

3

aspect. An absence of a English or Sinhala translation, which could be

obtained at any point of time during the proceedings in the High Court,

should not be a ground to refuse or reject such application. It is highly

technical to make use of such a provision which is not imperative to reject

an application. The real intention of the legislature and the entire subject

matter or the whole scope of the act is to give effect to the Hague

Convention on child abduction which takes place universally. When I

consider the preamble to the Act and as well as Section 10 & 11 of the Act,

suggesting the grounds for return of the child or refusal to return such child

which embody several aspects, are the more important provisions in law.

Section 6 (3) of the said Act is only a procedural requirement which could, I

believe be cured at any point of time. It is not a serious lapse which could be

a ground to refuse an application. This is one of the grounds to refuse the

application. The requirement is more or less directory. The following

authorities were considered.

Maxwell on The Interpretation of Statutes 12 Ed. - pg. 314/315

It is impossible to lay down any general rule for determining whether a

provision is imperative or directory. "No universal rule," said Lord Campbell

L.c., "can be laid down for the construction of statutes, as to whether mandatory

enactments shall be considered directory only or obligatory with an implied

nullification for disobedience. It is the duty of Courts of Justice to try to get at the

real intention of the Legislature by carefully attending to the whole scope of the

4

statute to be construed. And Lord Penzance said: "I believe, as far as any rule is

concerned, you cannot safely go further than that in each case you must look to

the subject-matter; consider the importance of the provision that has been

disregarded, and the relation of that provision to the general object intended to be

secured by the Act: and upon a review of the case in that aspect decide whether

the matter is what is called imperative or only directory."

N S Bindra's Interpretation of Statutes M N Rao Amita Dhanda Tenth Edition

pgs.101511016 ...

In Howard v Bodington, Lord Penzance said:

I believe, as far as any rule is concerned, you cannot safely go further than that in

each case you must look to the subject-matter; consider the importance of the

provision that has been disregarded, and the relation of that provision to the

general object intended to be secured by the Act; and upon a review of the case in

that aspect decide whether the matter is what is called imperative or only

directory.

The question, whether a particular provision is mandatory or directory, is in many

instances extremely difficult. And strong grounds are needed to read a mandatory

provision as directory and vice versa. The language employed is not always a sure index

and it is scarcely possible to lay down a hard and fast rule of general application. Broadly

speaking, however, there are three fundamental tests which are often applied with

remarkable success in the determination of this question. They are based on

considerations of the scope and object, sometimes called the scheme and purpose, of the

enactment in question, on considerations of justice and balance of convenience and on a

consideration of the nature of the particular provision, namely, whether it affects the

performance of a public duty or relates to a right, privilege or power-in the former case

the enactment is generally directory, in the latter mandatory. A provision which IS

directory in form might be mandatory in substance. Whether it is one or the other must

5

depend upon a number of things such as the declared object of the statute, the indications

to be found in the various portions thereof, the persons for whose benefit the power is to

be exercised and such other matters as might appear on the statute.

When I consider the subject matter and the importance of the

provision which is alleged to be disregarded, I cannot conclude that it would

be a ground to reject an application.

The other ground for rejection of the application is the

Petitioner's failure to comply with Article 12 of the Hague Convention on

Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction. The above Article 12

contemplates of a period of 1 year within which an application need to be

made and as the learned High Court Judge observes the 1 st Respondent had

waited for over a year to make an application through the French Central

Authority to the Central Authority of Sri Lanka. The other aspect of the

above Article 12 is that the child being settled in the new environment the

child cannot be returned. The child had lived for more than 2 years in Sri

Lanka. The learned High Court Judge relies on the report placed before court

by a Consultant Psychiatrist namely Professor Hemamali Perera. The

learned High Court Judge refers to an extract from the report (P5) where it is

stated that "He claimed that he preferred to live in Sri Lanka with his father

rather than with his mother in France". The learned High Court Judge takes

6

the VIew that this shows that the corpus IS well settled III his new

environment.

It appears to me that in order to fulfill the requirement of the

said Article 12, a period of 1 year or more and the child being settled in the

new environment would be sufficient to reject an application. To my mind

report P5 need to be considered in it's entirety, and one should be cautious to

accept the report, and same to be conclusive, to refuse an application on the

basis that the child is settled.

Though P5 suggest a preference of the child I find that

following material also surface from P5.

(a) There was no significant low mood, he did not appear to be a relaxed and happy

child.

(b) Non committal when asked whether he would live with both parents in Sri Lanka.

(c) When the father was not physically present in the vicinity child was noticed to

interact well with his mother and appeared relaxed and happy in her company.

(d) No obvious causes for concern regarding child's mental health.

(e) Not possible to draw firm conclusions regarding satisfaction and adjusting about

current living arrangements or whether he prefers an alternative.

When I consider the entirety of the report, I am unable to arrive at a

conclusion that the child is settled in our country, based on P5.

When I consider the entirety of the report marked P5 I am

unable to state with certainty that the child's best interest would be served by

, , 7

allowing the child to continue to live with the father in Sri Lanka. Though

this court is not bound to consider the fact that the father the 2nd Respondent,

had breached the laws of another country, his act of removal of the child

from the country of origin would be disadvantages to the child as it is not

sufficient to consider only the physical characteristic of settlement. Equal

regard must be paid to the emotional and psychological elements. (vide

Cannon vs. Cannon 2004 EWCA. Civ 1330, (2004) 3 FCR 438. The stay in

Sri Lanka for a period of 2 years or more was due to the conduct and acts of

the 2nd Respondent who is subject to an international search warrant. What

could the innocent child do when he is removed from the country of origin

who due to tender years unable to consent or refuse, consent to leave one's

country of origin. Missing one of the parents from life of child is a serious

draw back, and bound to affect or bring above an imbalance of the mental

state.

The prime concern of the Hague Convention is the restoration

of children who have been wrongfully removed, whether or not this is in

breach of a custody order in one of the contracting states. So it goes wider

than the recognition and enforcement of custody orders and protects rights to

custody even where there has been no order. Private International Law - 12

Ed. P.M. North - 1.1 Fawcett pgs. 733/734

•

8

The child being settled in a new environment is discussed In

this text. At pg 736 ...

Settlement in this context means more than mere adjustment to surroundings. It

involves both the physical element of being established in a community and an

environment, and as emotional constituent of securing and stability. Even if

settlement is established the court still has a discretion to order the return of the

child (see Re S C A minor) (abduction) 1991 FCR 656; (1991) 2 FRR 1)

In all the above circumstances I would agree with my brother

Judge's conclusions and directions given in his judgment and allow the relief

claimed in the petition.

Petition allowed.

~ y Cr~~'~~ "-1J~ ~

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

!

i

t I !

& I I I

1 I I I t ! ! l t I I i t I , I ! I i

~