==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I I' I . j I IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A.No

H. C. Matara No

BEFORE

267/2013

15/2006

H. N. J. Pereral J. &

K. K. Wickramasinghel J

In the matter of an Appeal

against an order of the High Court

under Sec. 331 of the Code of

Criminal Procedure Act No. 15 of

1979.

Sengavelu Chandramogan,

Welikada Prison,

Colombo-09.

Accused-appellant

v.

The Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

Respondent

1

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

K. K. WICKREMASINGHE, J.

Indica Mallawaratchy for the Accused-appellant.

S. Rajaratnam DSG, PC for the Attorney General.

02nd July 2015

13th August 2015

The accused-appellant (Sengavelu Chandramogan) was indicted in the High Court of

Matara on the following two counts:

Charge No.1:

Committing the death of Raju Rajendran, on or about 04.06.2003 and thereby

committing an offence punishable under Sec. 296, read with -Sec. 32 of the Penal Code.

He was convicted of murder and sentenced to death on 04.12.2013.

Charge No.2:

Voluntarily causing hurt to one Mannikam Marimuthu, thereby committing murder, an

offence punishable under Sec. 314 read with Sec. 32 of the Penal Code and sentenced to

one year of rigorous imprisonment.

This case was tried by the judge. This appeal is against the conviction and the sentence

of count no.1. At the very outset the Learned Senior Deputy Solicitor General conceded

to the application of the Learned Counsel for the accused-appellant to acquit the

accused-appellant on count no.l for short of evidence.

According to the version of the prosecution, the incident happened as follows;

2

Raju Rajendran (the deceased) was an estate worker for hire living in the Nillalla Estate.

(Room NO.6 in a line of houses ("Ieima"). Sengavelu Chandramogan (the accused

appellant) was also residing in the same estate with his uncle. The deceased's wife

stated in her testimony that the deceased did not to have had any kind of relationship

with the accused-appellant. (Page 172 of the brief)

On the day of the incident (2003.06.04) in the evening, the deceased accompanied

Mannikam Marimuthu (Witness No.1) who also resided in Room NO.6 of Nillalla Estate

and with whom he worked in the estate to a boutique after which they proceeded to

Mannikam Marimuthu's grandmother's house ("Lechchimi") which was the seventh

house in the line of houses ("Ieima") around 6.00pm. Mannikam Marimuthu and the

deceased left the vicinity of his grandmother's house with a kerosene lamp to return to

Mannikam Marimuthu's house at around 7.00pm.

When they had approached the Room No.ll junction, Chandramogan (the accused-

appellant) and Vishvanadan (the second accused) stopped them and offered the

deceased something to drink, which the deceased drank. After this Mannikam

Marimuthu and the deceased headed forward and came to a footpath where suddenly

1 someone hit Mannikam Marimuthu's hand sending the lamp flying near a drain.

Mannikam Marimuthu testified that he was able to identify the person who hit him as

Chandramogan (the accused-appellant) and three others who were with Chandramogan

as Govinda Raja (third accused), Vishvanadan (second accused) and Chandrakumara or

Kaluwa as he was commonly known (fourth accused).

Mannikam Marimuthu testified at that time that Chandramogan (the accused-appellant)

started hitting him with a club. According to Mannikam Marimuthu's testimony, he

categorically stated that Chandramogan was hitting him while the other accused were

hitting the deceased. (Pages 92, 93, 99, 100, 129 & 152 of the brief) Thus Mannikam

Marimuthu did not witness Chandramogan hitting the deceased. (Page 100 of the brief)

As Mannikam Marimuthu's eye was hit with the club during the incident, he could not

see and he crawled home and told his father about the incident, upon which Mannikam

Marimuthu was taken to the hospital by his father. Mannikam Marimuthu testified that

after he left he had no knowledge of what happened to the deceased until he got to

know that the deceased was dead.

3

In Kandaiah Kamala's testimony (the deceased's wife), she stated that the day of the

incident, her husband (the deceased) failed to come home at the usual time. At around

8.30pm Chandrakumara or "Kaluwa" (fourth accused) and Vishvanadan (second

accused) had come to the deceased's home and inquired about where the deceased

was and left shortly thereafter. About 5 minutes after they left, the deceased's wife saw

an estate worker with a torch outside and followed him. She then saw the deceased

lying on the floor some distance away, bleeding heavily. The deceased was then taken

to the Kosnegoda hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries on 2003.06.05.

The medical evidence given by the Judicial Medical Officer Dr. Rohan Ruwanpura of the

General hospital in Karapitiya was consistent with the evidence of the Prosecution

witnesses: the cause of death was due to the injuries caused to the brain by a blunt

object. Dr. Ruwanpura noted that although falling from a high elevation could cause

such injuries, it is unlikely that that was the case. After observing the poles collected as

evidence, Dr. Ruwanpura stated that such injuries could have been caused by the poles if they were fresh at the time of the incident, that the injuries could have been inflicted

by one or more persons, and that these injuries could cause the death of an individual.

The Assistant Judicial Medical Officer, Dr. Adithyapala Sisira Seneviratne, recorded five

wounds on Mannikam Marimuthu (Witness No.1) which he stated were most likely

caused by a blunt object. Dr. Seneviratne added that although such injuries could have

been caused by a fall, that it is unlikely. Dr. Seneviratne also noted that the deceased

told the doctor that three people had hit him with poles. (This was at around 7.30pm on

2003.06.04) Mannikam Marimuthu did not however, mentioned them by name. Dr.

Seneviratne also noted that Mannikam Marimuthu spoke without any visible difficulty.

(Page 206 of the brief)

The Learned Trial Judge in his decision found the first accused guilty on both charges

and acquitted the second, third and fourth accused of both charges. (Pages 411 & 412 of

the brief) The Learned Trial Judge also remanded the sole eye witness (Mannikam

Marimuthu) for deviating from his police statement. (Page 77 of the brief)

The counsel for the accused-appellant has submitted that the evidence led at the trial

does not support a conviction of murder against the accused-appellant and that the

Learned Trial Judge seriously misdirected himself on critical issues of fact.

4

•

The grounds for appeal urged by the Learned Counsel for the accused-appellant are as

follows;

I. The Learned Trial Judge erred by remanding the sole eye-witness during the trial

when he deviated from his police statement.

II. Evidence led at the trial does not support the conviction for murder against the

accused-appellant and the Learned Trial Judge seriously misdirected himself on

very critical issues of fact. (Findings of the Learned Trial Judge are contrary to the

evidence led at trial)

III. The Learned Trial Judge relied upon the inadmissible evidence by taking

cognizance and relying upon contradictions and omissions not proved or

admitted by the defence at the trial.

IV. The Learned Trial Judge flouted Sec.110 (4) of the Criminal Procedure Code by

perusing police statements and treating them as substantive evidence.

V. The Learned Trial Judge erred in applying the maxim Falsus in Uno Falsus in

Omnibus to the instant case.

Charge ~o.l:

The Counsel for the Respondent has conceded to the application of the Counsel for the

accused-appellant to acquit the accused-appellant in respect of charge no.l as there is

no reliable evidence to convict the accused-appellant on the said charge.

The evidence submitted by the sole witness (Mannikam Marimuthu) reveals several

contradictions in his testimony. The witness in his testimony in the Magistrates Court

stated that the deceased had drunk too much and that the witness had to carry the

deceased on his shoulders. (Page 109 of the brief) Where as in the High court the

witness testified that the deceased had not drunk that much and thus he did not have to

carry the deceased. (Page 106 & 108 of the brief) The Witness also stated in his police

statement that he could not recognize his assailants but in the High court he stated that

he could recognize them. (Page 134 of the brief) Further the witness stated that the

accused-appellant (Chandramogan) attacked only the witness and not the deceased. He

amply demonstrated the fact that it was the other three accused who had attacked the

deceased and not the accused-appellant.

Apparently the Learned High Court Judge had misdirected himself by convicting the

accused-appellant for charge no.l and acquitting the other three accused. The Learned

5

•

Senior Deputy Solicitor General correctly submitted that in the backdrop of the evidence

presented at the trial he is unable to support the conviction in respect of charge no.1.

Since there is no evidence to support the conviction of the accused-appellant for charge no.l we hereby set aside the conviction of the accused-appellant for charge no.1.

The Learned Counsel for the accused-appellant is not challenging charge no.21 and the

Learned Senior Deputy Solicitor General is supporting the conviction of the accused-

appellant in respect of the said charge. Considering the above facts we see no reason to

interfere with the findings of the Learned High Court Judge with regard to charge no.2.

Therefore we affirm the conviction and the sentence imposed by the Learned High

Court Judge with regard to charge no.2.

Subject to the above variation the appeal is dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

H. N. J. Perera J

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

6