==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA DC 1182/98

C. Rita Fernando No: 106, Pattiyagama, Madampe.

Substituted Plaintiff Appellant Vs. T. Patrick Fernando And others

Respondents

C.A.1182/98

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

K.T. Chitrasiri,J.

1

D.C.Chilaw Case No. 23176.

K.T. ChitrasiriJJ. &

Malinie GunaratneJJ.

Substituted Plaintiff-Appellant is absent and unrepresented

N.R. Sivendran with Dushyanthi JayasuriyaJ Anushiya Raman

& T. Sivanandaraja for the 1st

J 3rd and 4th Defendants-

Respondents.

21.07.2014

When this matter was mentioned on the last date i.e. 11.07.2014 Ms.

Sudharshani Coo ray who appeared for the Substituted Appellant moved for a

date to consider withdrawal of this appeal. HoweverJ neither the counsel nor

the Appellant is present in Court today. When it came up on 11.07.2014J it

was brought to the notice of Court that the Appellant has not made the 1st and

2nd Defendant-Respondents as parties to this appeal. Therefore J counsel for

the respondent J submitting that the Appellant has not complied with Section

755 of the Civil Procedure Code J moved that this appeal be dismissed.

Counsel who appeared for the Appellant on the last occasion conceded that

1 I I i

2

. the 1st and 2nd Defendants have not been made parties to this appeal. The

Appellant has failed to send notices to those two parties of this appeal. It was

borne by the registered post article receipt found~ at page 5 in the appeal

brief as well. It was also brought to the notice of Court on that date that the

relief prayed for in the prayer to the plaint was against the 1st and the 2

nd

Defendant-Respondents, on whom the Appellant has failed to send notices of

this appeal. It is mandatory to make all the parties as Respondents in the

notice of appeal in terms of Section 755 of the Civil procedure Code. Since

the Appellant has failed to do so, this appeal is dismissed with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

UDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Malinie Gunaratne,J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Cr/-

1

r1