==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I l

j 1

1 i ,

1 I

J I I I i ! i

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI

LANKA

Revision Application No. 116/06 Lalith Kumara Vithana

D.C.Homagama 259/P 154 Magammana Homagama

Plaintiff

Vs

Sunil Vithana

No. 154, Magammana

Homagama and 8 others

Defendants

1. K.Saranapala, 159 Magammana,

Homagama

2. G.C. Kotalawala

No. 306/97, Magammana,

Homagama

Petitioners

AND BETWEEN

Lalith Kumara Vithana

154, Magammana, Homagama

Plaintiff-Respondent

Sunil Vithana and 8 others

Defendant Respondents

f

2

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

AND

1. K. Saranapala

159, Magammana, Homagama

2. G.C.Kotalawala 306/97 Magammana, Homagama

Petitioner-Petitioners

Vs

Sunil Vithana and 8 others

Defendant-Respondents-

Respondents

Deepali Wijesundera J., and

M. M. A. Gaffoor, J.,

Ranjan Suwandaratne with Anil Rajakaruna for the Petitioner

S.N.Vijithsinghe for the Plaintiff-Respondent and 2nd and 3rd

Defendants Respondents

20.12.2014

II - 6· :LO 15

I

!i iII

f

fIIi

i(I I f II, ! , Ii I,t I

3

M.M.A. Gaffoor J.,

This is an application inviting this Court, in exercising its power of

Revision, to set aside the interlocutory decree and judgment entered in the

partition action on 13.01.2004 in the District Court of Homagama in case No

259/P and to allow the Petitioner to enter to the said case.

The action was instituted in July 1988 upon a commission for survey being

issued, the Commissioner N.J. Sethunga, Licensed Surveyor submitted his Plan

No. 3424 dated 31st August I 1995. His return to the commission contains the

names of the Petitioners and their addresses as new claiments to the corpus

that was surveyed.

The Petitioner alleged that although the Commissioner has mentioned the

names of the Petitioners in his Report, he has not mentioned that he has

handed over the copies of the Notices given to him under Section 16(3} and (4)

of the Partition Law No. 21 of 1977, as amended by Act No. 32 of 1987. As such,

it appears that the Petitioner were not served with notices.

Sub-sections (4) and (5) of Section 16 of the Partition Law clearly states

that the Commissioner shall serve on any person (not being a party to the

action) or his agent a copy of the Notice mentioned in Sub-section (3) and shall

obtain from the person on whom a notice is served under sub-section (4) an

acknowledgement of the receipt of such notice. (The Form of Notice appears in

the second schedule as amended by Act No. 32 of 1987).

Sub-section (6) of Section 16 of the Partition Law states that, "where any

person on whom a notice is served under sub-section (4) of this section

4

subsequently added as a party Defendant to the action, the notice served on

such person or his agent by the Surveyor under sub-section (4) of this Section

shall be deemed to be a summons served on such person in such action under

the provisions of this law and no further service of summons on such person

shall be necessary."

Thus sub-section (6) of Section 16 of the Partition Law imposes the

importance of the service of notice on a person who is not a party to the action

(but appears as a new party or claimant). It is elementary that once a person

becomes a party to the action as a Defendant he is entitled to be served with

summons but, under the above sub-section (6) the service of notice shall be

deemed to be service of summons and no further summons shall be issued. It is

mandatory that the person who Is served with a notice hall be added as a party

Defendant to the case. But if no notice is served on him, the court must issue a

fresh notice. In the instant case, the Plaintiff has failed to take steps to add the

Petitioners as parties to the action. The form of notice mentioned in the second

schedule request the person on whom the notice was served as follows:

"lf you claim any interest in the land/lands you are hereby required to

move to be added as a party to the aforesaid action on or before the .......... and

file your statement of claim, and to comply with the requirements of Section

19." These wordings appear to be equal to the wordings in a normal summons.

But if the party is not served with a notice, it is tantamount to no service of

summons on him, and thereby he is denied his right of filing a statement of

claim and participating at the trial.

5

Section 69 of the Partition law has provides for the addition of parties in

two cases:

a) When the court is of opinion that a parson should be, or should have

been, made a party to the action, after issuing to such person, a notice

substantially in the Form set out in the second schedule to this law,

requiring him to make an application to be added as a party to the

action, or

b) Any person who, claiming an interest in the land, applies to be added

as a party to the action

It is obvious that Section 69(1) confers a discretionary power on the Judge

to add as a party at any time upon judgment is delivered.

Section 20(1)(a) also states that the court shall order notice of a

partition action to be sent by registered post to every claimant (not being

a party to the action) who is mentioned in the report of the Surveyor

under sub-section (1).

Considering the wording of Section 20(1)(a) and Section 69(1)(a), it

is the duty of the court to issue a notice on the person who appeared

before the Surveyor to be added as a party Defendant though the court

will not ordinarily add a claimant as a party until he applies to be so

added. But in a partition action the law requires that if the Surveyor's

Report discloses a claimant, such claimant should be noticed; and if such

notice is not served, it will be deemed that the claimant has not been

served with summons in terms of sub-section (6) of Section 16 of the

Partition law, because this subsection says that the notice served on the

6

person by the Surveyor "shall be deemed to be a summons and no further

service of summons on such person shall be necessary."

In a partition action the court must bear in mind the effect of a

decree which it enters and therefore should be careful to bring in parties

who appears to have an interest. The fact that a person had appeared

before a Surveyor and whose name is reported as a new party to court,

two courses are open to the court. (1) The court may either act under

Section 20{1(a) or it may add him under Section 69(1) as a party

Defendant and issue summons on him.

In the instant case, the Plaintiff has failed to take steps either to file

the necessary notices or the summons to enable the court to issue on the

Petitioners, who were not served with notices by the Surveyor.

It is a fundamental requirement of the law that service of summons

on the Claimant or Defendant must be done and if not, a judgment

entered is null and void and cannot be executed against a person who is

not served with summons. The application of this principle by English

Courts is seen in the case of Craig vs Kanseen (1943) 1 A.E.R. 108. It was

held in this case that "failure to serve summons upon which the order in

that case is made was not a mere irregularity, but a defect which made

the order is a nullity."

Thus it is very clear that if a judgment is entered without service of

summons on a necessary party, that judgment is a nullity and has no force

in law.".

7

In the case of Leelawathie vs Weeraman 68 NLR 313, Sansoni C,J.,

held (which was a Full Bench decision) that, "In a action instituted under

the Partition Act, the Court h as power under Section 70(1) to add as

Defendant, even before the trial stage of the action, the claimants whose

names are disclosed in the report made by a Surveyor in terms of Section

18(1)." This case was decided under the old Partition Act) and the present

Partition Law provides similar provisions which are mentioned above.

In the case of Sivanandan vs Sinnapillai 77 NLR 300 (which was also

decided under the old Partition Act) Walpita J., held that, "wherein a

partition actionl a claimant (not being a party to the action) is mentioned

in the Surveyorls Reportl the court has no power to dispense with the

service of notice on the person who is alleged to be a claimant. In such a

casel the action is imperative of section 77 and 79 should be observed and

Section 356 of the Civil Procedure Code followed in serving the noticesl

where these sections have not been strictly followedl the Supreme Court

has power to set asidel in revisionl the Interlocutory Decree entered in the

absence of a claimant

N

•

If summons is not served on a claimant, he is deprived of an

opportunity to establish his rights to the corpus. It is the duty of the court

to investigate the title of the parties. If a claimant is not added as a party,

his title to the corpus cannot be established before court. The learned

District Judge is therefore wrong when he dispensed with the service of

notices on the Petitioners whose names were disclosed in the Surveyor's

Report.

I

! I !

I

i

8

For the reasons stated above, I would hold that the interlocutory

decree already entered should be set aside. This case will be sent back to

the District Court for the court to issue summons on the Petitioners to

add them as parties to file their statement of claim and the trial to

proceed with de novo.

WIJESUNDERA J., c:--

I agree. ~~

JUDGE OF ~OURT OF APPEAL

f I f f

I

t Ir I