==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A. No. 32/2011 H.C.Kandy No. 256/2013

M.G.L. Samantha Gamage alias Ranmahattaya No: 113, Udaluoya.

Appellant Vs. Hon Attorney General Attorney General’s Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

C.A. No. 32/2011

Before

Counsel

Argued and

Decided on

1

H.C.Kandy No. 256/2013

Sisira J de Abrew,J. (Acting PICA) and

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

Niranjan Jayasinghe for the accused-

Appellant.

Dilipa Peiris SSC for the Respondent.

28.11.2013.

Sisira J. de Abrew ,J. (Acting P / CAl

Accused -appellant IS present In Court produced by the Prison

Authorities.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused -appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of

man named Balage Chandrarathne and was sentenced to death. Being

aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence the accused-appellant has

appealed to this Court. The facts of this case may be briefly summarised as

follows:-

2

The accused-appellant and the deceased person were friends. Some

days prior to the incident in this case, the deceased person purchased a

vehicle from the accused-appellant. The deceased person who was not

satisfied with the condition of the vehicle later handed over the vehicle to the

accused-appellant and certain amount of money was due to the deceased

person over the transaction. On 09.01.2000 the deceased person who was a

fish seller was at a Sunday fair in Pundaluoya engaging in selling fish. In

the evening around 5 0' clock Antony Perera who was also a fish seller

heard somebody pleading to rescue him ( the person who was pleading) .

On hearing the said shouts, he looked in to the direction where the

pleading emanated and then saw one Gunasekera pulling the accused -

, ..... ~appellant in order to prevent him from proceeding towards a place the

" Sunday fair where the deceased person was lying fallen. According to

Gunasekera, he prevented the accused appellant from proceeding towards

the place where the deceased person was lying fallen. Gunasekera had held

the hands of the accused-appellant. At this time the deceased person was

lying fallen with bleeding injuries. Police Constable Jayasundara who was

on duty at the Sunday fair, on seeing a group of people proceeding inside

the Sunday fair was vigilant over what was happening at the Sunday fair.

Then he saw the accused-appellant coming from the Sunday fair saying he

was assaulted. According to Jayasundrara accused-appellant did not

mention the name of the person who assaulted him. He later saw the

accused- appellant throwing some object towards the roof of the cooperative

shop. Jayasundara says that the deceased person at this time was lying

fallen with bleeding injuries. From the above evidence it can be concluded

IIif

I

tII

f

tII

3

that it was the appellant who inflicted injuries to the deceased person. In

order to arrive at the conclusion that the accused-appellant inflicted injuries

to the deceased person, it is not necessary to consider the alleged dying

declaration made by the deceased person. Learned Counsel appearing for

the accused-appellant submits that the accused-appellant admits the

liability of the offence of culpable homicide not amounting to murder on the

basis of sudden fight. The question that must be considered is whether the

accused-appellant should be convicted of the offence of murder or of the

offence of culpable homicide not amounting to murder. The weapon used

by the accused-appellant in this case was a table knife. He has inflicted

eight cut injuries and one stab injury. According to the evidence of police

constable Jayasundara soon after the incident the accused-appellant was

going away from the place of the incident where the deceased person was

If (l....--lying fallen saying that he oW'" was assaulted ". This behaviour of the

accused-appellant suggests that there had been a fight between the

accused-appellant and the deceased person. This important fact, it appears

from the Judgment, has escaped the attention of the learned trial Judge.

Considering all these matters, we are of the opInIOn that the

proper conviction should have been the conviction of the offence of CUlpable

homicide not amounting to murder on the basis of sudden fight. For the

above reasons we set aside the conviction of murder and the death sentence

and substitute a conviction for culpable homicide not amounting to murder

on the basis of sudden fight which is an offence punishable under section

I II

4

297 of the Penal Code. We sentence the accused-appellant to a term of 15

years rigorous imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs.I0,000/- carrying

default sentence of 06 months rigorous imprisonment and to pay a sum of

Rs. 75,000 / - to the wife of the deceased person carrying a default of sentence

of 18 months imprisonment.

We direct the Prison Authorities to implement the sentence of

the date of conviction (31/3/2011).

Subject to the above variation of the verdict and the sentence,

the appeal of the appellant is dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P. W .D.C.Jayathilaka,J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

WC/-

t

I

(

III