==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Varshahanadige Sunil Soysa

Accused-Appellant

C.A.Appea1No.295/2008

H.C. Kurunegala No.213/2005

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

Vs.

The Hon. Attorney General,

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 03.

Respondent

SISIRA DE ABREW, J &

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA, J

A.K. Chandrakanth Assigned for

the Accused-Appellant

Shanil Kularatne S.S.C. for the

State.

04.03.2013.

Sisira de Abrew, J,

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted of a

murder of man named Warsha Handige Upul Soyza who was his

own brother and was sentenced to death. Being aggrieved by said

conviction and the sentence the accused-appellant has appealed to

this court.

Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as follows:

The accused-appellant, his brother (the deceased person in this

case), his sister-in-law Anulawathie and his mother Biso Manika

were living in one house. On the day of incident around 9.30

p.m. attention of Anulawathie was drawn to a sound that

emanated from the verandah of the house. At this time the

deceased person was sleeping on the verandah. When she looked

in the direction, she saw the accused-appellant carrying an axe in

his hand. Anulawathie then ran away from this place to complain

the matter to her mother-in-law who was, at that time, in a house

in the neighbourhood. When Anulawathie was running, the

accused-appellant chased after her. When Biso Manika mother of

the accused-appellant and Anulawathie came to the house, the

accused-appellant admitted to his mother that he cut the deceased

person. Both Anulawathie and Biso Manika gave evidence at the

trial. Learned defence counsel who appeared for the accused-

appellant at the trial , in order to attack the credibility of Biso

Manaka questioned Biso Manika whether she went to the police

station in order to see her statement made to the police. Biso

Manika answered this question in the affirmative. Learned Counsel

0or the accused-appellant therefore contended that/ Biso Manika

cannot be believed. When I consider the evidence, I feel that the

said answer given by Biso Manika was insufficient to attack the

credibility of Biso Manika. We have gone through the evidence of

the case and are of the opinion that of both Anulawathie and

Biso Manika have spoken the truth.

The accused-appellant in his dock statement took up

an alibi. He stated that, at time of the incident, he had gone to do

some election work. But his own mother had given evidence against

him and according to his own mother the accused-appellant

admitted the fact that he inflicted injuries on the deceased person.

When we consider all these matters, we are of the opinion that the

dock statement has not created any reasonable doubt 1n the

prosecution case. We have gone through the evidence and the

judgment. We see no reason to interfere with the judgment of the

learned trial Judge.

For the above reasons, we affirm the conviction and

death sentence and dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathllaka, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

jmds