==== BLOCKS ==== 

In the Court of Appeal of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

CA 767/96A (F) and 767/96B (F)

DC Horana : 3853fL

1. N 0 Rajanetti,

2. W.O. Chandra

Fernando nee

Jayaratna

Gamini Malwanna all

of Sri Chandrasekara

Mawatha, Panadura

Defendant-Appellant

Vs

Harischanra P

Jayasooriya,

Kotalawala,

Bandaragama

Plaintiff-Respondent

CA 767/96A and 767/96 B (F) DC HORANA 3853/L Page 1

I

f ! If II

I

Before A.W.A. Salam, J.

Counsel Rohan Sahabandu for the defendant-appellants and Maithri Premalal for the 4th defendant-appellant. Argued on : 08.09.2010 Decided on 27.01.2011

A.W. Abdus Salam, J.

The plaintiff filed action and sought a declaration against the 2nd and

3rd defendants that they hold the subject matter in question in trust

for his benefit. The defendants filed their answers denying the

allegation. The 1st defendant denied that there was any agreement as

averred in the plaint and that the subject matter is being held in trust

for the plaintiff. The other defendants filed their answers claiming

rights in the subject matter on the strength of certain deeds by which

they have acquired rights in the land.

The matter proceeded to trial on the admissions that the 1st defendant

became the owner of the land described in schedule 2 of the plaint on

deed No 1929 dated 7th January 1989 and the said land was divided

into 12 lots as per plan No 3874 made by RW Fernando, Licensed

Surveyor. The matter of the dispute proceeded to trial on 8 issues

suggested by both parties. At the trial the plaintiff gave evidence and

closed his case reading in evidence documents marked P1 to P 33.

Thereafter, the 1st defendant gave evidence and closed his case on his

behalf and that of the 2nd and 3rd defendants reading in evidence

1 D1 and 1D 2. The 4th and 6th defendants did not give evidence nor

did they produce any the documents. At the conclusion of the trial the

learned district judge held interalia that the 1st defendant has violated

the informal agreement to sell the land and sold the allotments of land

in question to people other than the plaintiff in breach of the said

CA 767/96A and 767/968 (F) DC HORANA 3853/L Page 2

i 1 i I I l i ; I I , I

1, I I ! I f r I I I

f l t ! i !

~ I I

informal agreement. In the circumstances the learned district judge

held that the land in question had been held in trust by the 2nd and

3rd defendant in favour of the plaintiff.

In coming to this conclusion the learned district judge has failed to

appreciate the provisions of the Trust Ordinance which interalia are

intended to protect the bona fide purchases against the existence of a

trust. He has also failed to appreciate that P4 is an informal agreement

which could not have been properly received in evidence or

considered for arriving at a decision in this case. The learned district

judge has also failed to appreciate that at the most the agreement

between the plaintiff and the 1st defendant was an agreement to sell

land and therefore the concept of trust is not applicable to the dispute.

In any event the learned district judge has failed to appreciate and/ or

evaluate the attended circumstances as contemplated in the Trust

Ordinance to ascertain the existence of a trust. The learned district

judge has also not evaluated the evidence regard being had to the

principles applicable to the concept of trust.

In the circumstances, the judgment entered by the learned district

judge appears to me as perverse and also ended up in a miscarriage of

justice. As such, the impugned judgment of the learned district judge

is set aside. The learned district judges is directed to hear the case

afresh.

There shall be no costs.

~~U2{--. Judge of the Court of Appeal

CA 767/96A and 767/96 B (F) DC HORANA 3853/L Page 3

I l ! ,

I. ! t

J !