==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 897/98(F) D.C. Kurunegala No. 769/P

Hiti Hamige Kaseepala Udattawa, Matikumbura.

Defendant- Appellant Vs. Pallemulla Ralalage Sadi Banda Sappuwatta, Polgahawela. And Others

Complainant-Respondent

C.A. No. 897/98(F)

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED AND

DECIDED ON

K.T. CHITRASIRI, J.

D.C. Kurunegala No. 769/P

K.T. CHITRASIRI, J.

Chula Bandara for the 2nd defendant-appellant

Defendant-Respondents are absent and

unrepresented.

Q8th March, 20 13

***********

1

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the order dated 31st

March, 1998 of the learned District Judge of Kurunegala. The said relief

is clearly mentioned in the notice of appeal filed on the Q9th April 1998.

In that notice of appeal, it is stated that the relief prayed for by this

appeal is to set aside the order dated 31st March 1998, which was

made pursuant to an application to correct an arithmetical error.

Therefore it is clear that the decision that is being appealed against is an

"order" made pursuant to an application made under section 189 of the

Civil Procedure Code. Hence, this appeal is not to challenge the

judgment dated 18th November 1996 even though the relief prayed for in

the petition of appeal states so. Indeed the contents of the petition of

2

appeal state that the appeal is to set aside the order dated 31st March

1998.

Section 754(1) of the Civil Procedure Code permits to file an

appeal to challenge a "judgment" whilst in terms of Section 754(2), a

party who is dissatisfied with any "order'' of a Court, should first obtain

leave of the Court of Appeal to proceed with an appeal. The words

judgment and an order are defined in sub section (5) of 754 of the

Civil Procedure Code. Accordingly judgment' means any judgment or

order having the effect of a final judgment and an "order" means all

decisions other than judgments.

The impugned decision made on the 31st March 1998 being

an order to correct an arithmetical error is clearly a decision which does

not have the effect of a final judgment. Therefore, it is an "order" of the

Court only. Accordingly, the appellant should have first obtained leave

of this Court to proceed with this appeal in terms of Section 754(2) of

the Civil Procedure Code.

The above position is conceded by the learned Counsel for

the appellant as well. Accordingly, it is clear that the appellant had

chosen the wrong procedure in filing this appeal. In such a situation

this Court has no option than to dismiss this appeal. (Chettiar vs.

Chettiar 2011 Bar Association Law Reports page 25)

• 3

For the aforesaid reasons this appeal is dismissed without

costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Kwk/=