==== BLOCKS ==== 

t f

[

I I I ' i !

r-i i , I .

!

l ! I ! .

I

~.

I i , I t I I I . i l

I-I . I.

~

I I·

~ I

. '

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of a petition of appeal in

terms of section 331 (1) of the Code of

Criminal Procedure Act No 15 of 1979 in

the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

Lanka.

High Court (Kandy) Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

Case No: H.C. 74/10 Lanka.

C.A. Case No: 149/2013 Complainant

Karupaiya Loganadhan,

Uggala Watte, Koswatte lime,

Ankubura.

Accused

1

, ! , I \-I I .

I·

~ !

I i . i

f'

I ! I'

~ l, ! l . ! I·

~

I· I I

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Karupaiya Loganadhan,

Uggala Watte, Koswatte lime,

Ankubura.

Accused Appellant

Hon. Attorney General,

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

Complainant Respondent

H.N.J. PERERA, J

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J

Amila Palliyage for the Accused

Appellant.

H.I. Peiris sse for the Respondent.

2

ARGUED ON 20.11.2014 & 02.12.2014

DECIDED ON 28.05.2015

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J

1 i

r Sinnaiya Karupaiya was living together with Velayudan Lechchami both of

i '

whom had previous marriages and children thereof. Sinnaiya and Lechchami

were living in Lechchami's house. Sinnaiya was 75 and Lechchami 59 by

14.06.2009. Both, having finished their day's work on the estate, came home

and Sinnaiya went to a party in neighborhood leaving Lechchami at home.

Yoganathan is a son of Sinnaiya's previous marriage who is married and had

children. He came to Lechchami's house at about 6.30 p.m and asked where

3

I i I I .

I I

..

I . !

i I I I •. I I I . I.

~

his "papa" was Lechchami had offered him tea and a chew of betel. Then,

Yoganathan had waited for Sinnaiya to come. Since Sinnaiya was late,

Lechchami had gone away with a torch in search of Sinnaiya. On her way, she

had met Sinnaiya coming with Kanakapullai. Then, the three of them had come

home. When they came home, Yoganathan had demanded Rs.50,OOO/= from

Sinnaiya. Sinnaiya had asked whether he was to pick money from trees. Then,

Yoganathan had threatened that he would kill Sinnaiya, if Sinnaiya didn't give

him the money. Since the quarrel was turning serious, Lechchami had gone

away to bring the watcher. At that time, Yoganathan had taken away a

photograph which was on the wall and dashed it on the floor. After that he had

been going to attack Sinnaiya with an axe. When Kanakapullai tried to prevent

it, he had got ready to attack Kanakapullai also. When Lechchami, the watcher

and one Kirunanathan had come there, Sinnaiya was lying at the entrance to

the house with injuries.

According to the postmortem report Sinaiya had died at 9.30 p.m on that day.

Cranio cerebral injury is the cause of death. The Judicial Medical Officer had

4

i • I ! I

r ! ' I·

j.

~

I

1

i I"

i I-, I I ,

\ ..

I .

I-

r i • ! ,

observed two injuries on the body. Injury No.1 was contusion placed over the

right Knee and No.2 was depressed compound fracture placed over the right

side of the head. It had extended up to left parietal bone. The judicial Medical

officer has expressed his opinion that the injury No.2 was necessarily fatal and

it could result in a sudden death. The injury No.2 could be caused by a heavy

blow given with a blunt, heavy weapon. He has accepted the fact that the

injury No.2 could be caused by the axe marked as cz; 1 which had been

produced by the prosecution. He has added that the attack may have been

made with the blunt edge of the weapon using great force.

Karupaiya Yoga nathan, the Accused Appellant had been indicted for

committing the murder of Sinnaiya Karupaiya on 14 June 2009 at Delpan Oya

Estate in Meda Mahanuwara. He has been convicted after trial and sentenced

to death in the trial court. Being dissatisfied with the said conviction and the

sentence, the Accused Appellant has preferred this Appeal.

The counsel for the Accused Appellant did not challenge the factual aspect of

the prosecution case. Instead, he invited attention of the court to the dock

5

I I' I

I-I ,

1 1 j ! I i ! I

~ 1 r I ' j j I. i ,

~

statement of the Accused Appellant. The Accused Appellant, in his dock

statement, has stated the following.

liMy father married for the 3rd time also. His wife of the 3rd marriage has 3

children. He provided her with all facilities without paying maintenance to his

1st and 2nd wives. It is true that I went. It is also true that I went to the children

of my 1st mother to ask for money. When I went to my 3rd mother, the

stepmother, she scolded me. I asked her where my father was. Then she said

that he had gone out and will return in a short while. I did this not

intentionally. I was very drunk. I was not aware of what happened and whether

I shouted. I couldn't even think of what I did. People said if I surrendered to the

police, they would assault me. Later, I went for some work in Kekirawa. What I

pray to court is (to) pardon (me) and imposing a lenient sentence on me does

not matter".

Accordingly, the counsel for the Accused Appellant contended that at the time

of the incident as the Accused Appellant was in a state of inebriation he had

6

been insensible of the repercussions of his acts. Therefore, it is not proper that

criminal liability being imposed on the Accused Appellant.

The learned senior state counsel who appeared for the Attorney General

submitted that though he felt for the Accused Appellant, there is no room in

law, under the prevailing circumstances, for a lesser culpability.

Even though the Accused Appellant states that he was heavily drunk at the

time of the incident, it is contrary to Lechchami's evidence as she states that

she gave a cup of tea and a chew of betel to the Accused Appellant while he

was waiting for his father.

The learned State Counsel who has conducted the prosecution in the trial court

has suggested that the Accused Appellant may have acted on cumulative

provocation even though, there is no evidence of sudden provocation. But the

learned trial judge has rejected the said suggestion that a father marrying

several times could cause cumulative provocation in a son. However, the

ultimate reason for murdering the father by the Accused Appellant had been

not receiving the money he demanded from his father.

7

~ I l r I The Accused Appellant had not maintained exculpatory or mitigatory exception , , I ,

!. J. I

on the ground of intoxication in the trial court. And on the other hand no

t evidence that the Accused Appellant was under the influence of liquor other

1 I I than the expression made in his dock statement. Therefore, this court is also in

, I .. ! I agreement with the learned trial judge that the culpable homicide committed

1 j I · l

by the Accused Appellant does not come within any of the exceptions in Sec.

,. ! I 294 of the Penal Code. As such, the offence committed by the Accused I· I r i Appellant is nothing but murder. We, therefore, affirm the conviction and the

! · imposed sentence by the learned trial judge and dismiss the Appeal.

t i

" ,

~ Appeal dismissed. I I I

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

I I I· I

~

H.N.J. PERERA, J

I agree

i ! ! · JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

8