==== BLOCKS ==== 

,

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No:172/2011

H.C. Embilipitya Case No:HCE/291/06

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED AND DECIDED ON

Vidana Pathiranage Somasiri

alias Godakumbure Loku Mahaththaya

Accused-Appellant

Republic of Sri Lanka.

Respondent

SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J. (ACTING P / CA) &

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA, J.

Neranjan Jayasinghe for the Accused -Appellan t.

Madhawa Tennakoon, SSC, for the Respondent.

21.02.2014.

SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J. (ACTING PICA)

Accused-appellant is present in Court produced by the

Prison Authorities.

1 f

\

,

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of a

man named Kodituwakkuge Ariyasinghe and was sentenced to death.

Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence he has

appealed to this Court.

Facts of this case may be briefly summarised as follows:

On the day of the incident around 8.00 in the morning

Gunatilake and Kumara who are brothers started cutting branches of

a tree which had fallen across the boundary of the two witnesses and

the accused-appellant. It has to be noted that the accused-

appellant's land was adjoining to the land of the two witnesses

(Gunatilake and Kumara). The two witnesses were cutting the tree

into pieces. At this time the deceased person too came to this place

and sat on the ground. Little later, the accused-appellant came to

this place and told the two witnesses not to cut the tree which had

fallen. Thereafter, the accused-appellant all of sudden turned

towards the deceased saying "did you also come" and stabbed the

deceased. He stabbed about nine times. This was witnessed by

Gunatilake, Kumara and the wife of the deceased Violet. At the time

of the trial Violet had gone abroad and her deposition at the

2

r

r

Magistrate's Court was led in evidence. The accused-appellant in his

dock statement stated that when he came to the place where the tree

had fallen, one of the witnesses (either Gunatilake or Kumara) armed

with an axe came to attack him. Thereafter he ran away from the

place. When we consider the evidence led at the trial, we hold the

view that the dock statement of the accused-appellant cannot be

accepted and is not capable of creating any reasonable doubt in the

prosecution case. When we consider the evidence led at the trial, we

see no reason to interfere with the judgment of the learned trial

Judge. We therefore affirm the conviction and the death sentence

and dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

TW

3 It