==== BLOCKS ==== 

· .. ..

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

CA 1147/98(F)

DC-KANDY 11174/P

1. Abdul Aziz Mohamed Buhary

Substituted 1st Defendant-

Appellant

2. M.A.A. Ramun Beebie

6th Defendant -Appellant

VS

B.G.B. Hairul Mafia

Plaintiff-Respondent

T. Mahuthuma Umma

2~ Defendant Respondent

And others

1/

i I

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

K.T. Chitrasiri, J.

K.T.Chitrasiri,J

H. Withanachchi for the Defendant-Appellants

Murshid Maharoof for the plaintiff-Respondents

21.11.2013

Learned Counsel for the appellant concluded his submissions

in support of this appeal. This is an appeal seeking to

set aside the judgment dated 25.08.1998 of the learned

District Judge of Kandy. By this appeal, both the

decisions made in the court below, as to the corpus as well

as to the allocation of shares have been challenged.

Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the

southern boundary of the land shown in the plan marked X

has no live boundary on the ground whereas there is a clear

southern boundary is seen as depicted in the plan marked Y,

it being a roadway. Therefore, his contention is that the

land sought to be partitioned should be the land depicted

in the plan marked Y and not the land shown in the plan

21

I I I ! f

J ! 1 I

marked X. Learned District Judge has considered this issue

carefully and has held that the land sought to be

partitioned should be the land depicted in the plan marked

X which comprises two lots. (Vide proceedings at pages 355-

360 in the appeal brief) .

In coming to this conclusion learned trial judge has

compared and considered the evidence as to the extent and

the boundaries of the deeds marked in evidence with that of

the lands shown in the two plans marked X and Y. The deeds

produced in evidence show that the entitlement of the

parties is to a land in extent of 1 Pela or to a land of

half an acre in extent. The extent shown in plan X is 89

perches which is almost similar to half an acre whereas the

extent given in the plan Y is 113 perches which amounts to

show a much bigger land. Learned District Judge also has

considered the physical existence of the Southern Boundary

of the land sought to be partitioned having looked at the

southern boundary given in the title deeds.

I do not see any error in the manner in which he has

considered the extent and the boundaries of the land sought

to be partitioned when he accepted the land shown in plan

X as the corpus in this case. Therefore, I do not see

31

any merit in canvassing the decision of the learned

District Judge as to the corpus of the action. Hence, the

appeal filed to challenge the decision of the learned

District Judge in respect of the land that is subjected to

be partitioned should stand dismissed.

At this stage, both Counsel submit that the parties have

now come to a settlement as to the manner in which the

allocation of shares should be determined, upon considering

the rights derived from the deed marked lVl. The rights in

the deed marked lVl claimed by the 1st defendant-appellant

had been rej ected by the learned District Judge. His

decision in this regard is on the basis that donor Zeenath

Umma had already disposed of her rights to this land by the

deed marked P2 and therefore she had no rights to the land

in question to deal with, by the time she executed the deed

of gift marked lVl.

Having considered the contents in both the deeds marked as

P2 and lVI, it reveals that Zeenath Umma had retained 1/5

share of her entitlement when she executed the deed marked

P2. Therefore, 1/5 share which she had dealt with by the

deed marked lVl should remain even after having disposed of

the balance 4/5 share by the deed marked P2. It is the said

41

\,IIII!

I I It I ! i

1I

IIIi I

I

•

balance of 1/5 share that had been transferred by the deed

1V1 and it is the same 1/5 share that the 1st defendant has

claimed by the said deed marked 1V1. Accordingly, the

learned Counsel for the plaintiff-respondent, conceding the

said entitlement of the 1st defendant has no objection to

allocate those rights referred to in the deed marked 1V1 to

the 1st defendant.

At this stage, it is also brought to the notice of Court

that the said 1/5 share claimed by the 1st defendant would

amount to 1/20 share of the entire land to be partitioned

since the aforesaid Zeenath Umma was entitled only to 1/4 th

share of the land, as correctly held by the learned

District Judge having considered the law applicable to

those who profess the religion of Islam.

Furthermore, it is necessary to note that the learned trial

judge has kept 1/20 share of the land un-allotted stating

that it should go to the successors of Hubbib Mohommed.

However, it is brought to the notice of court that there is

no person called Hubbib Mohommed. Existence of such a

person has not been revealed even in the pedigrees filed by

the parties. Accordingly, even if the said un-allotted

share of 1/20 is allocated to the 1st defendant on the basis

51

I

\I

t

f •

I

•

t

of the deed 1V1, it will not disturb the share allocation

of the other parties to the action. Therefore, with the

consent of both the Counsel this Court decides to allocate

un-allotted 1/20 share of the land to the 1st defendant-

appellant having considered the rights referred to in the

deed marked 1V1. Accordingly, the learned District Judge

is directed to allocate 1/20 share which was kept un-

allotted to the 1 st Defendant-Appellant in addition to the

shares that she has already been given.

The learned District Judge is directed to enter

interlocutory decree accordingly. Subj ect to the above

variations, this appeal is dismissed without costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

LA/-

6/

\ If f