==== BLOCKS ==== 

CA(PHC)0235/2019

Page 1 of 8

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Officer in Charge

Miscellaneous Division

Police Station

Kandy.

Complainant

Vs

1. Kosangegedara Pushpa Ramya

Rajani

Ranasinghe, No.36 A, Vidyala

Mawatha, Mawilmada, Kandy.

1st Party

2. Sri Nishanka Udugedara

Nidharshana

No.21 C, Dhammasidi Mawatha,

Asgiriya

Kandy

3. Sri Nishanka Udugedara Darshana

No. 182D, Edaduwawa Road,

Peradeniya.

4. Shesha Nihathamani Gunaratna,

No.259, Thalathuoya Road,

Gurudeniya.

2nd Party

AND BETWEEN

Court of Appeal Case No. CA (PHC)/0235/2019 Revision Application No. HCRA 56/2019 Magistrate’s Court Kandy Case No. 16048/18

CA(PHC)0235/2019

Page 2 of 8

1. Sri Nishanka Udugedara

Nidharshana

No.21 C, Dhammasidi Mawatha,

Asgiriya

Kandy

2. Sri Nishanka Udugedara Darshana

No. 182D, Edaduwawa Road,

Peradeniya

3. Shesha Nihathamani Gunaratna,

No.259, Thalathuoya Road,

Gurudeniya.

2nd Party Petitioners

Vs.

Kosangegedara Pushpa Ramya Rajani

Ranasinghe, No.36 A, Vidyala

Mawatha, Mawilmada, Kandy.

1st Party Respondent

AND NOW BETWEEN

1. Sri Nishanka Udugedara

Nidharshana

No.21 C, Dhammasidi Mawatha,

Asgiriya

Kandy

2. Sri Nishanka Udugedara Darshana

No. 182D, Edaduwawa Road,

Peradeniya

CA(PHC)0235/2019

Page 3 of 8

3. Shesha Nihathamani Gunaratna,

No.259, Thalathuoya Road,

Gurudeniya.

2nd Party Petitioner-Appellants

Vs

Kosangegedara Pushpa Ramya Rajani

Ranasinghe, No.36 A, Vidyala

Mawatha, Mawilmada, Kandy.

1st Party Respondent Respondent

Before : D. THOTAWATTA, J.

K. M. S. DISSANAYAKE, J.

Counsel : H.D.C.D. Hathurusingha with

Shiral Lakthilaka instructed by Aftab

Jameel for the 2nd Party Petitioner-

Appellants.

Shantha Jayawardena with Azra

Basheer for the 1st Party Respondent-

Respondent.

Written Submissions

of the 2nd Party Petitioner-Appellant

Petitioner tendered on : 29.05.2026

Written Submissions

of the 1st Party -Respondent

-Respondent

CA(PHC)0235/2019

Page 4 of 8

tendered on : Not tendered.

Decided on : 31.07.2026

K. M. S. DISSANAYAKE, J.

When this matter came on before us on 30.04.2026 for argument, attention

of this Court has been drawn to the fact that the instant appeal had been filed

against an interlocutory order dated, 09.12.2019 (hereinafter called and

referred to as ‘the HC order’) made by the learned High Court Judge of the

Central Province holden in Kandy (hereinafter called and referred to as ‘the

learned High Court Judge of the Province’) vacating and dissolving the

enjoining order issued by it on 22.05.2019 staying the order dated

26.04.2019, made by the learned Primary Court Judge of Kandy in the case

bearing No. 16048/18. Hence, this Court had having decided to hear and

determine the jurisdictional issue, directed the parties to file written

submissions dealing with the same. However, it is to be observed that, the

written submissions had been filed only by the 2nd Party Petitioners-

Appellants-Petitioners (hereinafter called and referred to as ‘the Petitioners’)

and thus, the 1st Party-Respondent-Respondent (hereinafter called and

referred to as ‘the Respondent’) had made default in filing written

submissions.

Hence, I would proceed to the order on the jurisdictional issue on the strength

of the written submissions so furnished to Court by the Petitioner and on the

law governed by it.

As observed by me elsewhere in this order, the HC order that is now, sought

to be impugned in the instant appeal, is an interlocutory order made by the

learned High Court Judge of the Province in the exercise of the revisionary

jurisdiction vested in it by Article 154P(1) of the Constitution of the

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka (hereinafter called and referred to

as ‘the Constitution’) to be read with Article 154P(3)(b) thereof.

CA(PHC)0235/2019

Page 5 of 8

It is in this context, I would think it pertinent and appropriate at this juncture

to examine Article 154P(6) of the Constitution and it enacts thus;

“(6) subject to the provisions of the Constitution and any law, any

person aggrieved by a final order, judgment or sentence of any such

Court, in the exercise of its jurisdiction under paragraphs (3)(b) or (3)(c)

or (4) may appeal there from to the Court of Appeal in accordance with

Article 138.” [Emphasis is mine]

In the light of the Article 154P(6) of the Constitution, subject to the

provisions of the Constitution and any law, any person aggrieved by a final

order, judgment or sentence of any such Court, in the exercise of its

jurisdiction under paragraphs (3)(b) or (3)(c) or (4) may appeal there from to

the Court of Appeal in accordance with Article 138. [Emphasis is mine]

Furthermore, section 2(1) of the Court of Appeal (Procedure for Appeals from

High Courts) Rules 1988 enacts thus;

“Any person who shall be dissatisfied with any judgement or final

order or sentence pronounced by a High Court in the exercise of the

appellate or revisionary jurisdiction vested in it by Article 154P(3)(b) of

the Constitution may prefer an appeal to the Court of Appeal against

such judgement for any error in law or in fact...”. [Emphasis is mine]

In the light of Rule 2(1) of the Court of Appeal (Procedure for Appeals from

High Courts) Rules 1988; any person who shall be dissatisfied with any

judgement or final order or sentence pronounced by a High Court in the

exercise of the appellate or revisionary jurisdiction vested in it by Article

154P(3)(b) of the Constitution may prefer an appeal to the Court of Appeal

against such judgement for any error in law or in fact... [Emphasis is mine]

Now, the pertinent question is whether the order sought to be impugned in

the instant appeal can be considered as one falling within the ambit of a “final

order, judgement or sentence” of a provincial High Court made in the exercise

of its jurisdiction under paragraphs (3)(b) or (3)(c) or (4) of Article 154P of the

CA(PHC)0235/2019

Page 6 of 8

Constitution as envisaged by Article 154P(6) thereof and Rule 2(1) of the Court

of Appeal (Procedure for Appeals from High Courts) Rules 1988?

I would think it pertinent at this juncture to examine the criterion laid down

by a fuller bench of the Supreme Court comprising of seven judges in SC

Appeal No.41/2015 - decided on 04.08.2017 in determining whether an

order is a final judgment or not, and it may be re-produced verbatim the same

as follows;

“In order to decide whether a order is a final judgment or not. it is my

considered view that the proper approach is the approach adopted by

lord Esher in Salaman vs Warner (supra) which was cited with approval

by Lord Denning in Salter Rex vs Gosh (supra).It stated:

“If their decision which ever way it is given, will if it stands finally

dispose of the matter in dispute, I think that for the purpose of

these Rules it is final. On the other hand, if their decision, if given

in one way, will finally dispose of the matter in dispute , but, if

given in the other, will allow the action to go on, then I think it is

not final, but interlocutory”.”

Although the said pronouncement was made by the Supreme Court under

section 754(1) and (2) of the Civil Procedure Code as amended, the criterion

laid down therein, would in my view, be applicable to a situation arisen in this

case too, with equal force in determining whether an order sought to be

impugned is a final judgment or not within the meaning of Article 154P(6) of

the Constitution.

In this instance, the learned High Court Judge of the Province had in the HC

order, vacated and/or dissolved the enjoining order issued by Court in an

earlier occasion.

Hence, it becomes abundantly, clear that the learned High Court Judge of the

Province had in the HC order, not in any manner, proceeded to finally,

determine and adjudicate upon the rights of the parties to the application

CA(PHC)0235/2019

Page 7 of 8

before it in revision upon its merits, instead he had merely, proceeded to

vacate and/or dissolve the enjoining order issued by Court in an earlier

occasion.

Applying the criterion laid down by the Supreme Court in the SC Appeal

No.41/2015 (Supra) to the facts of the instant appeal, if the impugned

decision whichever way it given, will if it stands finally, dispose of the matter

in dispute, order impugned is final. On the other hand, if the impugned

decision, if given in one way, will finally, dispose of the matter in dispute but,

if given in the order, will allow the application to go on, then it is not final, but

interlocutory.

However, it clearly, appears that the impugned order being an enjoining order

which is by its inherent nature, a temporary order, whichever way the

impugned order is given, namely; either vacating it or extending it any further,

the application will nevertheless, proceed to decide and finally, adjudicate

upon the rights of the parties on its merits.

Hence, the impugned order cannot in any manner, be construed as a final

order within the meaning of by Article 154P(6) of the Constitution but, an

interlocutory order.

In the result, an appeal will not lie under Article 154P(6) of the Constitution

or Rule 2(1) of the Court of Appeal (Procedure for Appeals from High Courts)

Rules 1988 to this Court from the impugned order.

Hence, the instant appeal is misconceived in law and therefore, cannot

sustain in law on this ground too.

Moreover, I find it settled law that an appeal is a statutory right and must be

expressly, created and granted by a Statute.

Upon a careful analysis of Article 154P(6) of the Constitution and the Rule

2(1) of the Court of Appeal (Procedure for Appeals from High Courts) Rules

1988, it becomes abundantly, clear that an appeal has not been expressly,

created and granted either by Article 154P(6) of the Constitution or Rule 2(1)

CA(PHC)0235/2019

Page 8 of 8

of the Court of Appeal (Procedure for Appeals from High Courts) Rules 1988

from an interlocutory order that may be made by a High Court established by

Article 154P(1) of the Constitution in the exercise of the revisionary

jurisdiction vested in it by Article 154P(3)(b) of the Constitution.

Besides, the authorities cited to in the written submissions and relied on by

the Petitioners do not in any manner, support the contention advanced by

them therein, that final appeal will lie from an interlocutory order, sought to

be impugned by them in the instant appeal.

In the light of the law set out above, I would hold that a final appeal will not

lie to this Court from the HC order for; it is neither a judgement nor a sentence

nor a final order within the meaning of Article 154P(6) of the Constitution and

Rule 2(1) of the Court of Appeal (Procedure for Appeals from High Courts)

Rules 1988 but that an interlocutory order.

I would therefore, hold that the appeal is misconceived and therefore, bad in

law and hence, the Petitioners cannot have and maintain the instant appeal

as it is presently, constituted.

In the circumstances, I would hold that the jurisdictional issue is entitled to

succeed in law.

In the result, I would dismiss the instant appeal with costs fixed at Rs.

25,000/.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

D. THOTAWATTA, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL