==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A.948/98F D.C Horana No:3074/P

Kandage Leeladasa Perera Appukutti Arachchige Sirisena Bamunumulla, Bandaragama.

Plaintiff -Vs- (1) Liyanage Robo Singo Barnunumulla,Bandaragama. Kandage Liladasa Bandaragama. (3) Kandage Karunawathi Bamunumulla, Bandaragama. (4) Kandage Alawathi Bamunumulla, Bandaragama. (5) Kandage Gilin Nona Bamunumulla, Bandaragarna. (6) Appukutti Arachchige Elo Singho Bamunumulla, Bandaragama. (7) Appukutti Arachchige Violet Bamunumulla, Bandaragama. (8) Kandage Leelawathi (dead) Bamunumulla, Bandaragama. (BA) Kandage Kamalawathi

Bamunumulla, Bandaragama. (9) Kandage Daya Premasiri Perera Bamunumulla, Bandaragama.

(lO)Kandage Munis Perera

Barnunurnulla, Bandaragarna.

(ll)Kandage Gulanis Perera

Barnunurnulla, Bandaragarna. (12)Pathirage Punawathi

Barnunurnulla, Bandaragarna.

(13)Pathirage Alan Nona

Barnunurnulla, Bandara~arna.

(14)Pathirage Ratnawathi

Barnunurnulla, Bandara~ama.

(15)Hidallage Piyadasa Perera

Barnunurnulla, Bandaragarna.

(16)Liyanage Dirnan

Wapala Mahruthrna Road, Wadduwa.

(17)Pitipanage Simon Perera

Barnunurnulla, Bandaragarna.

(18)Kandage Liyan Singho

Barnunurnulla, Bandaragarna.

(19)Pathirage Richard Perera

Bamunumulla, Bandaragarna.

Defendants

Now and Between

(2) Kandage Leeladasa (dead)

Barnunurnulla, Bandaragarna.

2nd Defendant Appellant

(2a)Arnaratungage Leelawathi ¥ (Wife of the Deceased) No:44,Bamunurnulla, Bandaragama.

(2~Kandage Chandana Sanjeewa Perera

(s~n of the Deceased)

No:44,Barnunumulla, Bandaragama.

(2c)Kandage Nadeeka Sanjeewani Perera

(daughter of the deceased) No:44,Barnunurnulla, Bandaragarna.

(2d)Kandage Jayantha Perera

(son of the deceased) No:44,Barnunurnulla, Bandaragarna.

(2e)Kandage Krishanthi Perera

(daughter of the dec~ased) No:44,Barnunurnulla, Bandaragama.

2nd Defendant Substituted .Appellants

-Vs-

Appukutti Arachchige Sirisena Barnunurnulla, Bandaragarna.

Plaintiff Respondent

(1) Liyanage Robe Singe

Barnunurnulla,Bandaragarna.

(2) Kandage Liladasa

Barnunurnulla, Bandaragarna.

(3) Kandage Karunawathi

Barnunurnulla, Bandaragama.

(4) Kandage Alawathi

Bamunurnull.a, Bandaragarna.

(5) Kandage Gilin Nona

Barnunurnulla, Bandaragarna.

(6) Appukutti Arachchige Elo Singho

Barnunurnulla, Bandaragarna. ·or

(7) Appukutti Arachchige Violet

Bamunurnulla, Bandaragarna.

(8) .Kandage Leelawathi (dead)

Barnunurnulla, Bandaragama.

(BA) Kandage Kamalawathi

Bamunumulla, Bandaragama. (9) Kandage Daya Premasiri Perera Bamunumulla, Bandaragama. (lO) Kandage Munis Perera

Barnunurnulla, Bandaragarna. (11) Kandage Gulanis Perera

Barnunumulla, Bandaragama. (12) Pathirage Punawathi

Bamunumulla, Bandaragama. (13) Pathirage Alan Nona

Bamunumulla, Bandaragama. (14) Pathirage Ratnawathi

Bamunumulla, Bandaragama. (15) Hidallage Piyadasa Perera

Bamunumulla, Bandaragama. (16) Liyanage Diman

Wapala Mahruthrna Road, Wadduwa. (17) Pitipanage Simon Perera

Bamunumulla, Bandaragama. (18) Kandage Liyan Singho

Bamunumulla, Bandaragama. (19) Pathirage Richard Perera

Bamunumulla, Bandaragama.

Defendant Respondents

1

C.A. No. 948/98(F) D.C. Horana Case No. 3074/P

Before

Counsel

Argued& Decided on

K. T. Chitrasiri, J.

Harendra K. Perera for the Plaintiff-Respondent.

05.02.2013.

********

K. T. Chitrasiri, J.

2nd, 9th and 19th Defendant-Appellants have filed notices

of appeal challenging the judgment dated 11.12.1997. However, 2nd and

19th Defendant-Appellants have not filed petitions of appeal. Only the 9th

Defendant-Appellant had filed a petition of appeal which is dated

09.03.1998.

Upon considering the aforementioned dates of the

impugned judgment and the petition of appeal filed by the 9th

defendant-appellant, it is clear that the petition of appeal had been

filed 60 days after the delivery of the impugned judgment.

Therefore, it is seen that the petition of appeal had been filed Il,

~ ! I t ! I I

y

2

contravening the prov1s1ons of the procedure stipulated in law.

Therefore, this appeal should stand dismissed for not complying with

Section 754 (4) of the Civil Procedure Code.

At this stage Miss. Hemamala Kumari, Attorney-at-

Law informs court that she had been appearing for the 9th defendant-

appellant previously. However, she further submits that she has not

received instructions from the appellant to app~ar in this case thereafter

even though she has informed him to give instructions by way of a

telegram.

9th defendant-appellant is absent and unrepresented in

this Court today. Having perused the docket, I note that the appellant

were given several dates, since 29.8.2011 to file substitution papers

in order to substitute the heirs of the deceased parties. The appellant

has not taken steps to do so. Without substitution being effected,

merits of this appeal cannot be considered. It is the duty of the

appellant to have the substitutions effected in order to proceed with

the appeal. In the circumstances, it is clear that the appellant is not

prosecuting the appeal diligently.

3

Accordingly, I decide that this

I appeal should be

dismissed under Rule 34 of the Supreme Court Rules as well.

For the aforesaid reasons I make order dismissing the

appeal with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

AKN

! iI

~ i I

t.!