==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA Case No.: CA (PHC) 116/2009

1. Atula Kumara Nupe Arachchi

Plaintiff – Petitioner 1. Mass Developments (Pvt) Ltd, Vs. 1. Rev. Balapana Sumanasara 2. Nimal Sunil Shanta Siri De Silva 3. Sunil Karunarathna 4. Samarasinghe Arachchilage Padma 5. Vithanarachchilage Thilakarathne

Respondent

1

J

1 !

1

C.A. (PHC) No. 116/2009 P.H.C. Colombo HCRA No. 157/2007

M.C.Mt. Lavinia 180/Rl/2007

Before K. T. Chitrasiri, J &

W.M.M. Malinie Gunarathne, J.

Counsel N.T.S. Kularatne with Jinesh Tillchant for the 2nd Party

Respondent-Appellants

Faiz Musthapha P.C. with Riad Ameen for the 1st Party

Petitioner-Respondent and for the 1 st Party - Intervenient

Respondent-Petitioner -Respondent

Argued &

Decided on 16.09.2014

K. T. Chitrasiri. J.

Heard the learned Counsel for the Appellants.

Officer in charge of the Police Station, Mt.Lavinia filed an

information in the Magistrate's Court of Mt.Lavinia in terms of the

provisions contained in Part VII of the Primary Court Procedure Act No.44

of 1979 seeking for an order under Section 68 of the said Act. When such

an application is filed in the Primary Court, it is the duty of the trial Judge

to ascertain the person who was in possession of the land in dispute, at

the time the information was filed or to determine whether there was any

!.

I

I

1 \ ,

~ 1 1 I I

I

2

dispossession within a period of two months prior to the filing of

information in Court, of the person who was in possession of the land in

dispute. Section 68(1) and 68(2) requires the Primary Court Judge to

determine as to who was in possession of the land on the date of the filing

of information and accordingly to make order declaring that person, who

was in possession at the time the information was filed, is entitled to the

possession of the land in dispute. Similarly, under Section 68(3) of the Act

No.44 of 1979, the Primary Court Judge is required to hand over

possession of the disputed land, to the person if that person had been

dispossessed from the land within a period of two months prior to the

filing of information in Court.

In this instance the learned Magistrate, basically relying upon the

photographs marked 2V (6) to 2V (17) had come to the conclusion that the

appellants who were in possession had been dispossessed by the

respondents within two months prior to the filing of information. Those

photographs tendered by the appellants do not indicate the date on which

those were captured. Therefore, it is incorrect to decide the issue as to the

exact period of possession or dispossession of the disputed land since the

date of capturing of those photographs has not been established. Hence, it

is clear that the learned Magistrate has misdirected herself when she

made the order in favour of the appellants relying upon those

photographs.

I ! ! I I I I I I I I i

~ I 1 j i 1 ! I I i

I I

3

At the same time, it is necessary to note that the learned Magistrate

has not given due consideration to the documents tendered on behalf of

the respondents. Clear evidence is found in those documents filed by the

respondent in the Magistrate's Court to show that the respondents were in

possession at the time the information was filed having obtained electricity

after developing the land put in suit.

In the circumstances, it is our view that the learned High Court

Judge is correct when he decided the case in favour of the respondents

having set aside the order of the learned Magistrate.

Accordingly, we are not inclined to interfere with the judgment of the

learned High Court Judge.

For the aforesaid reasons, this appeal is dismissed without costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

M.M.M. MaUnie Gunarathne. J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

/mds