==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 41 I 2000 F

D.C. Negombo No. 4591 I L

1. Jayakody Arachchige Don Udayasiri Jayakody, 2. Jayakody Arachchige Dona Magilina Chandrawathie Jayakody, Both of No. 593, Negombo Road, Wattala.

Plaintiffs Vs.

Hettiarachchige Wijedasa, No 12159, Alwis Town, Hendala, W attala.

Defendant

AND NOW BETWEEN

Hettiarachchige Wijedasa, No 12159, Alwis Town, Hendala, Wattala.

Defendant Appellant Vs

1. Jayakody Arachchige Don Udayasiri Jayakody, 2. Jayakody Arachchige Dona Magilina Chandrawathie Jayakody, Both of No. 593, Negombo Road, Wattala.

Plaintiff Respondents

f

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

Dr. Sunil F.A. Cooray for the Defendant

Appellant

M.H.B. Morais for the Plaintiff Respondents

21.03.2012

11.03.2013

The Plaintiff Respondents (hereinafter referred to as the

Respondents) instituted the said action against the Defendant Appellant

(hereinafter referred to as the Appellant) in the District Court ofNegombo seeking

inter alia for a declaration of title to the land described in the schedule to the plaint

and to eject the Appellant from the said land. The Respondents averred in their

plaint that the Appellant was in possession of the premises in dispute upon a lease

agreement bearing No 1436 dated 24.12.1985 for a period of05 years and after the

expiration of the said lease period the Appellant continued to be in unlawful and

forceful possession of the said premises. The Appellant filed an answer praying for

a dismissal of the Respondents' action. He pleaded that after the expiration of 05

years lease period he became the tenant of the Respondents. After trial the learned

District Judge delivered judgement in favour of the Respondents. Being aggrieved

by the said judgment dated 18.01.2000 the Appellant has preferred the present

appeal to this court.

At the trial the Appellant has admitted that the Respondents were the

owners of the premises in dispute and he took the said premises from the 2nd

Respondent on a lease by the agreement bearing No 1436 dated 24.12.1985 and

3

after the expiration of the lease period on 02.09.1990 he continued to be m

possession of the said premises.

It is settled law that the benefit of the Rent Act No. 07 of 1972 could

be pleaded where the premises in question were occupied by him under a notarially

executed lease agreement which has terminated by effluxion of time. If he opted to

be a statutory tenant he should at least pay the rent. Therefore such person should

prove that he has paid rent to the landlord after the expiration of the lease

agreement.

It is clear from the Appellants' evidence at page 132 and 133 of the

brief that the Appellant had not left the premises on the expiry of the lease period

and also had not paid the authorized rent to the Respondents. Also he had not taken

any effort to deposit the rent in the Local Authority. In such situation the

Appellants become trespassers on the land and therefore a cause of action will

accrue to the Respondents to claim the property back with damages caused to

them.

In the case ofK.V.K. Theivendrarajah Vs A.L.M. Sanoon 71 NLR 12

it was held that "Where, after the termination of a notarially executed lease, the

tenant continues to remain in occupation of the premises by virtue of the Rent

Restriction Act, the landlord is entitled to raise the rent to the full amount

permitted by the statute. Accordingly, if the tenant fails to pay the authorized rent,

he is liable to be ejected on the ground of arrears of rent."

In the case of M. Razik Vs H. Esufally 58 NLR 469 Basnayake C.J.

observed that "As the plaintiff notified the defendant three months before the

expiry of the lease that he should hand over the premises at the end of September

1951 it cannot be said that there has been a tacit renewal of the lease. The

• 4

contractual tenancy having expired at the end of September 1951, the defendant

was able to remain in the premises merely because section 13 barred an action in

ejectment except on one of the grounds provided therein. The defendant is then a

tenant remaining in possession of the leased premises without the lessor's consent.

Under the common law such a person is deemed to hold the premises on the same

terms as under the lease except that he is not entitled to go on for the term of the

original lease or any shorter period and is bound to pay a proportionate rent for the

period of his unauthorised occupation (Van Leeuwen Censura Forensis, Pt. I, Bk

IV, Ch. XXII, Sec. 15-Barber). But the Rent Restriction Act bars an action for the

ejectment of such a person except in circumstances prescribed by the Act. Such a

person can be ejected if he fails to pay the rent for one month after it has become

due. The defendant not having paid any rent for two years cannot escape the

consequences of such non-payment. The lessee's obligations under our law in

regard to rent is to pay the rent at the proper place and time (Van Leeuwen's

Censura Forensis, Part I, Book IV, Ch. XXII, s. 13). It is not sufficient to express a

willingness to pay the rent. The rent must be actually paid."

In the said circumstances I am of the view that the learned trial Judge

has come to a right conclusion on a careful consideration of the evidence led in this

case. Hence I see no reason to interfere with the said judgment of the learned

District Judge dated 18.01.2000. Therefore I dismiss the appeal of the Appellant

with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal