==== BLOCKS ==== 

. . . '

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A 1542/2004/CALA 45612004 D.C Case No. 16955/P

1. Sarojini Lawrence No. 345/33, Kuruppu Lane Borella, Colombo 8.

2. Meyyappan Kulendran No.3, Sayd Rukmand Paris 9C, France.

3. Logambikey Pareeja No. 36, Forest Park Buwaneswaru, Orissa India

4. Meyyappan Nagendran No. 114, Colins Crescent Brampton Ontario L6 T3 N 1 Canada.

PLAINTIFF -PETITIONERS

Vs.

1. N.layachandran No. 79, KotahenaVeediya Colombo 13.

DEFENDANT

2. Remico Industries (Pvt) Limited No. 194, Sri Ramanadan Mawatha, Colombo 13.

RESPONDENT

t I I ! ,l i I

~ t I f f l I i I f l i f Ii I t t

~ , ¥ ; I I I i t t I

f ! r I I

t

, , ..

And now between

2. Remico Industries (Pvt) Limited No. 194, Sri Ramanadan Mawatha, Colombo 13.

2ND RESPONDENT-PETITIONER

1. Sarojini Lawrence No. 345/33, Kuruppu Lane Borella, Colombo 8.

2 Meyyappan Kulendran No.3, Sayd Rukmand Paris 9C, france

3. Logambikey Pareeja No. 36, Forest Park Buwaneswaru, Orissa India

4. Meyyappan Nagendran No. 114, Col ins Crescent Brampton Ontario L6 T3 Nl Canada.

2

PLAINTIFFS-PETITIONERS RESPONENTS

Vs.

N.layachandran No. 79, KotahenaVeediya Colombo 13.

New address

74, Bonjean Road, Colombo 13.

DEFENDANT -RESPONDENT

, ,

, .

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERA TNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J.

Nihal Jayamanne P.C with Noorani Amarasinghe

For 2nd Respondent-Appellant

Romesh de Silva P.C., with S. Amarasekera for Plaintiff-Respondents

Senaka de Silva for Defendant-Respondent

06.09.2011

17.10.2011

3

The Plaintiff-Respondent was declared entitled to lot (1) in plan

No. 1322 A (marked X) by final partition decree and the Defendant-

Respondent to lot 2 in the said plan. Thereafter the Plaintiff-Respondent

filed an application for delivery of possession of the land in question under

Section 52 of the Partition Law to evict the 2nd Respondent who was in

possession. The 2nd Respondent-Petitioner, Remico Industries (Pvt.)

Limited, objected to such application mainly on the basis that the 2nd

Respondent- Petitioner is in possession of the entire corpus and a lessee of

~ I I I

f I

, ,

, ' 4

Plaintiff-Respondent. The learned District Judge after inquiry allowed the

application made by Plaintiff-Respondent by his order of 18.11.2004.

The learned President's Counsel for the 2nd Respondent-

Petitioner in his brief submissions to this court at the outset drew the

attention to the above plan filed of record. (Folio 475) to show that the Hotel

falls within lot (2) and the factory and office falls within lot (2) and some

parts of same within lot (1). It was the learned President's Counsel for the

2nd Respondent-Petitioner's position that his client took on lease the entire

corpus on rent and that his client is entitled to the protection of the Rent Act

and relied on Section 14( 1) and Section 22 of the Rent Act. Further the

learned Counsel sought to demonstrate and impress this court that in any

event Plaintiff-Respondent had acquiesced in the tenancy of the 2nd

Respondent-Petitioner. He developed his argument on the above lines by

submitting to court that the 1 st Defendant-Respondent was a co-owner and

prior to the partition decree leased the premises inclusive of lots (1) & (2) of

the said plan to the 2nd Respondent-Petitioner. As such there is acquiescence

the part of the Plaintiff-Respondent.

The learned President's Counsel for Plaintiff-Respondent

vehemently objected to any suggestions pertaining to acquiescence and that

Plaintiff-Respondent never at any point of time leased or rented her portion

. . .. 5

of the land which she became entitled by the partition decree and denied any

knowledge of a contract of tenancy even prior to final decree. Learned

President's Counsel supported the learned District Judge's order of

18.11.2004and argued that in any event Section 14 of the Rent Act applies

only to residential premises and not to business premises. As such Section

14 and 22 of the Rent Act has no application to the case in hand.

The learned President's Counsel for 2nd Respondent did not

contest or specifically challenge any factual matters or the learned District

Judge findings on questions of fact. He based his argument on legal

proposition more particularly the protection afforded to a tenant under the

Rent Act as regards property which are subject to a final partition decree.

I have perused the order of the learned District Judge. Though it

IS a very brief order the reasons for not accepting the 2nd Respondent-

Petitioner as a tenant or lessee of the Plaintiff-Respondent are being clearly

stated in his order. This court cannot see a basis to reject or interfere with the

learned District Judge's reasoning. I have noted the following:

(a) Plaintiff was not in the island since 1973. One Karuppiah Nagalingam was

looking after Plaintiff-Respondent's property according to 2nd Respondent-

Petitioner and the said Karuppiah Nagalingam leased Plaintiffs property to the

2nd Respondent-Petitioner. In evidence it was Plaintiff-Respondent's position that

she had no dealings or had any good relations with both the said Nagalingam or

i !

~ I t ! ! ! ! l ! • , l I ! [ r

~ I I

~ t

f I I I ! r I I I ! II ! I: I I I ! I I

~ ,

~ t

6

the 15t Defendant. There were disagreements and ill feeling between 15t Defendant

and Plaintiff-Respondent which resulted in litigation as evidenced from Xl - X

12. As such court rejects any form of arrangement to lease the property of

Plaintiff.

(b) No independent or oral/documentary evidence led at the inquiry to prove tenancy

or lease other than the evidence of Manager of 2nd Respondent-Petitioner

Company.

(c) The lease agreement entered between Karuppiah Nagalingam and the Proprietor

of 2nd Respondent-Petitioner Company. The Plaintiff-Respondent never had a

hand in it. If at all it is a dealing between 15t Defendant and 2nd Respondent-

Petitioner.

(d) In terms of Section 50 (1) A of the Partition Law right of a lessee or Mortgagee

cannot be interfered. However it would be applicable only to the portion of land

leased i.e between 15t Defendant and 2nd Respondent-Petitioner. As such in the

absence of acceptable material to prove that the lease agreement was between the

Plaintiff-Respondent and the 2nd Respondent-Petitioner, Plaintiff-Respondent' s

entitlement to lot (l) in plan 1322A by the partition decree would not be effected

and no impact on her portion of portion of the land.

The above reasoning of the learned District Judge cannot be set aside

by this court. I accept the facts as adverted to by the Original Court Judge.

The Plaintiff-Respondent on the available facts and evidence had no

dealings at all with the 2

nd Respondent-Petitioner Company. No tenancy or

lease had been established between the 2nd Respondent-Petitioner Company

and the Plaintiff-Respondent. As such I agree with the order of the learned

District Judge.

7

The writ of possession under Section 52 of the Partition Law

has been incorporated into the Partition Law I believe after much

consideration by the Law Commission of 1929. This is a recognized right

made available in terms of a statutory provision in Partition Law. Unless

provided by law the Provision contained in Section 52 should not be taken

lightly. In the text of Law of Partition in Ceylon by K. D. P.

Wickremasinghe - pg. 326 ...

The need for a writ of possession after a final decree in a partition action

was widely felt, and the Land Commission of 1929 in its report made the

following recommendations:

"We also recommend that provision should be made enabling the Court to

Issue a writ of possession in the case of a purchase or partition under this

Ordinance. "

However, all these difficulties regarding the applicability of these sections

of the Civil Procedure Code to partition actions, for the purpose of obtaining an

order for delivery of possession of the land under a final decree in a partition

action, are now removed by section 52 of the Partition Act which enacts that

those who are entitled to any land by any final decree, and those who hold a

certificate of sale under the Act are entitled to obtain from Court an order for

delivery of possession of the land.

In fact it is an offence to interfere with a partition decree, unless

by lawful means. In Herat Deputy Fiscal Vs. Alice Nona - The Ceylon

Weekly Reports Vol. 1 (1915) Pg. 84. The decree in a partition suit is

binding as against all the world and a person obstructing the fiscal in the

8

execution of a writ of possession issued under such a decree cannot be said

to do so in the exercise of a bona fide claim of right and is guilty under

Section 183 of the Penal Code.

Apart from above, the importance of a writ of possession has

been considered from very early times of enacting the Partition Law. The

above position has been considered and dealt in the Law of Partition III

Ceylon by D.A. St. V. Jayawardena pg. 154 refer to writs of possession.

When final decree has been entered allotting specific lots to each of the

parties, the allottees are entitled to be placed in possession of the lots so allotted

under order of Court, and for that purpose to obtain writs of possession as

provided for in sections 323 and 324 of the Civil Procedure Code: Ungehami v.

Naidehami and Herat v. Alice Nona. Under such a writ the Fiscal can remove not

only persons parties to the action and directly bound by the decree, but also all

persons whomsoever, as a partition decree binds all the world. In Herat v. Alice

Nona, the Fiscal was obstructed in the execution of a writ of possession issued in

a partition action by two persons, one of whom was not a party to the decree. Both

of them were charged under section 183 of the Penal Code with obstructing a

public servant in the execution of his duty. The Magistrate convicted the accused

who was a party to the partition decree and acquitted the other. On an appeal

against the acquittal, Shaw, 1.. said:-

"I am of opinion that the Magistrate was wrong. The decree in a partition

suit is binding against all the world and the 1 st accused's claim to retain

possession of the land cannot be considered as a bona fide one, as it was a claim

to a right that could not exist in law."

9

I would also refer to some recent case law (Act No. 21 of 1977)

on the subject to demonstrate that provisions of the Partition Act are

mandatory. Munidasa Vs. Nandasena 2001 (2) SLR 224 - CA

The question arose as to whether a party to a partition action who was allotted a lot could

proceed under section 325 Civil Procedure Code without resorting to the specific

provisions under section 52(1) and 53(1) of the Partition Act.

Held-

(i) The Partition Law provides a specific remedy, the plaintiff-respondent is not

entitled to resort to provisions of the Civil Procedure Code. Provisions of the

Partition Act are mandatory provisions and provides a simple and easy

remedy of obtaining delivery of possession.

(ii) The provisions of the Civil Procedure Code could be made use of as regards

the formalities of execution of writs etc., but regarding the delivery of

possession of land to parties and purchasers, application should be made under

section 52 ofthe Partition Act.

Abeyratne v Manchanayake 1992 (1) SLR 361 - CA

By a final partition decree dated 24.10.71 a party was declared entitled to certain lots and

also ordered to pay owelty and compensation to certain other parties, which amounts

were paid only on 9.11.83.

He thereafter made an application for an order for delivery of possession under section

51(1) of the Partition Law, when objections were taken based on section 337 of the Civil

Procedure Code which prohibits an application for execution of decree after 10 years

from the date of decree (subject to certain exceptions which were not relevant).

Held-

10

The proviso to section 52(1) of the Partition Law, which provides that a party who is

liable to pay compensation or owelty, shall not be entitled to obtain an order for delivery

of possession until such amount is paid, is applicable in the matter and the 10 year period

in section 337 of the Civil Procedure Code begins to run from the date when

compensation or owelty is

Paid.

When the Legislature has given its attention to a separate subject and made provision for

it, the presumption is that a subsequent general enactment is not intended to interfere with

the special provision unless it manifests its intention very clearly. This is expressed by

the Latin maxim generalia specialibus non-derogant (general words do not derogate

from very special provisions)

Neither section 77 of the Partition Law which states that the provisions of the Civil

Procedure Code relating to the execution or service of writs etc. shall apply in relation to

the execution of service of writs etc. in a partition action, nor section 79 of the Partition

Law which lays down that in any matter or question or procedure not provided for in the

Partition Law the procedure laid down in the Civil Procedure Code in a like matter or

question is to be followed by the court governs the matter because special provision has

been made by the Legislature under section 52(1) of the Partition Law and the proviso

thereto in respect of partition decree.

The Partition Act No. 16 of 1951 also had in its section 52 provisions

relating to delivery of possession.

In Samarakoon v Punchi Banda 78 NLR 525

The provisions of section 337 of the Civil Procedure code do not apply where a party to a

partition action applies to Court for an order to put him in possession of the lots allotted

to him in the final decree. The correct procedure that should be adopted is set out in

section 52 of the Partition Act.

j [ l I I [ I

f: i I t !

11

I would at this point of my jUdgment wish to point out

something that was not submitted to this court by the learned President's

Counsel for 2nd Respondent-Petitioner. There was no reference by him to

any items of evidence with reference to the inquiry in the District Court to

demonstrate acquiescence on the part of the Plaintiff-Respondent as regards

tenancy. In fact the learned District Judge rejects any form of a lease or

tenancy involving the Plaintiff-Respondent. As such I am firmly of the view

that the provIsIOns of the Rent Act has no application. Even otherwise

section 14 of the Rent Act is limited only to residential premises, where

emphasis was made on this point by learned President's Counsel for

Plaintiff-Respondent, and there was no response to such submissions by the

other learned President's Counsel.

However section 14( 1) of the Rent Act reads thus: ...

(1) Notwithstanding anything in any other law, the tenant of any residential

premises which is purchased by any person under the Partition Act or which is

allocated to a co-owner under a decree for partition shall be deemed to be the

tenant of such purchaser or such co-owner, as the case may be, and the provisions

of this Act shall apply accordingly, and where such tenant is deprived of any

amenities as a result of such partition, the owner of the premises where such

amenities are located shall permit such tenant to utilize such amenities without

making any payment therefore until such amenities are provided by such

purchaser or co-owner or by the tenant under sub-section (3).

I I

f I I I f I I I I i I ! 1

12

The above section applies to residential premises. Admittedly

the claim of the 2nd Respondent-Petitioner is according to the above plan

describes office, hotel and factory. There are no residential units. I am not

convinced of any argument to bring the case within Section 14 of the Rent

Act. Attempt by 2nd Respondent-Petitioner to object in this manner is merely

to delay the process and deny justice and whittle down the procedure under

Section 52 of the Partition Law. This provision available under the Partition

Law is paramount to safeguard the interest of a rightful allottee.

Section 22 of the Rent Act refer to grounds of ejctment of

tenant. It has no application as far as partition decree is concerned.

At the hearing stage this court was concerned about the

question of a final appeal since order under Section 52 is on the issue of a

writ of possession subsequent to a final decree and one could very well

argue that it is an incidental stage in the process. However I do not think that

this court is denied of jurisdiction to terms of Section 773 of the Civil

Procedure Code. As far as the writ of possession under Section 52 of the

Partition Law is concerned it is in effect of final order in the process of a

partition suit which could be the final step to an allottee entitled in terms of

final decree.

r I I I t I! i

J' i I I

f ! ! t I I I ! I 1 I I l I i ! i I

· ' 13

Further there was no objection raised by any of the President's

Counsel as regards the right of appeal under Section 52 of the Partition Act

No. 21 of 1977. Though parties cannot confer jurisdiction on court I am

mindful of the case law on that aspect. Vide Martin vs. Wijewardena 1989

(2) SLR 410; Sangarapillai's case 32 NLR 92; Shanmugam vs.

Commissioner of Registration of Indians & Pakistanis Residents 64 NLR 29,

33; 1982 (2) SLR 250 & 252 etc.

In all the above circumstances, I affirm the order of the learned

District Judge dated 18.11.2004 and dismiss the Petition of Appeal with

costs fixed at Rs. 25,0001-

~~c~~

iunbE OF THE c~ APPEAL

I

(

II

t

l

t r I I i ! I

i [