==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for the issue

of Writs of Certiorari and Mandamus in

terms of Article 140 of the Constitution read

with Section 79 of the Army Act No. 17 of

1949.

*******

C.A. (Writ) Application No.641/2009

1

Cpt. K.G. Titus

No. 29/2, Galawadukumbura

Kawdukelella,

Matale.

PETITIONER

Vs

1. Secretary,

Ministry of Defence,

Colombo 03.

2. Commander of the Army,

Army Headquarters,

Colombo 03.

3. The Commandant,

Sri Lanka Army (Volunteer) Force

Battaramulla.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

2

4. Colonel H.G.W. Pathmasiri,

Colonel (Coordinating),

Area Headquarters,

Hambantota.

5. Major K.H.S. Perera,

Commanding Officer,

26, SLNG, Mullaitive.

6. Major J.A.T.P.K. Jayakody,

2 I.e., 2, S.L.N.G. Kallar,

Kantale.

7. Major M.K.T.R. De S. Jayasekara,

SLCMP,

Army Headquarters,

Colombo 03.

8. Hon. Attorney General,

Attorney Generals' Department,

Colombo 12.

RESPONDENTS

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

: Mervin Samarakoon for the

Petitioner.

Vikum De Abrew DSG for the

Respondents.

: 13th February, 2014.

: 11th June, 2014

Oeepali Wijesundera J.

The petitioner has filed this application for writs of certiorari to

quash the decision of the 2nd respondent to discharge the petitioner from

the Army and to quash the decision of the 2nd respondent to recover a

sum of Rs. 59,0001= from the petitioner. A writ of Mandamus to compel

the 3rd , 4th and 8th respondents to refund the sum of Rs. 59,0001=

obtained from the petitioner.

The petitioner served as the Platoon Commanding Officer of the

Kotmale Army Training School between 28/07/2003 and 24/12/2003. In

early December 2003 the petitioner has collected Rs. 1,0001= each from

recruits for a reception to be held at the passing out parade which the

petitioner claims he collected on the instructions of the Commandant of

the Kotmale Training School. An investigation was held against the

petitioner and the Military Police submitted its report (marked as R1 by

the respondents). Based on this report action was taken to appoint a

court of inquiry comprising 5th, 6th and ih respondents as members.

Evidence was called and petitioner himself has given evidence and has

been present at the inquiry. At the conclusion of the inquiry it was found

that the petitioner has abused his powers as the Commanding Officer

and was involved in an act of fraud by collecting money from the recruits

3

in an unauthorized manner, withdrawing money fraudulently from the

accounts of the Recruits using their ATM Cards and misusing the said

money for his personal use. Based on the findings of the said court of

inquiry the Commanding Officer of the Army decided to recover a sum

of Rs. 59,000/= from the petitioner and to recommend His Excellency

the President to discharge him from the Sri Lanka Army Volunteer

Force.

The learned counsel for the petitioner stated that the money for

the passing out parade was collected on the specific instructions from

the Commandant of the Training School and that the Army does not

allow an officer to hold functions without a clear mandate from a

superior officer. He further stated to substantiate their allegation they

forced the petitioner to confess that he fraudulently obtained a sum of

Rs. 59,000/= from the soldiers and got him to sign two documents

marked as R2 and R3. This fact he has mentioned at the court of

inquiry. Petitioner stated the Commandant himself attended the said

function and if he misused the money collected they would not have had

the reception.

Counsel for the petitioner further submitted that under the

provisions of Sec. 47 and Sec. 133 of the Army Act the Commander of

4

the Army does not possess the legal authority to order the dismissal of

an officer from the Army on the findings of a Military Police investigation

and that a man shall not be punished without a proper trial. He cited the

judgment in CAlWritlAppINo.89512007 by Justice Sri Skandarajah.

The facts of this case are different to the instant case.

Petitioner's contention regarding the extraction of Rs. 59,0001=

from the petitioner by the 7th respondent is that under Sec.27(d) of the

Army Act the Commander is empowered to do so only after a proper

investigation and that the ih respondent had no authority under Sec.27

to do so. But this is not so, the money was recovered after the

investigation and petitioner has volunteered to give the money.

The respondents stated that the petitioner has admitted

fraudulently collecting a sum of Rs. 59,0001= and further requested time

to refund the said amount by documents marked R2 and R3. They

further submitted that the inquiry was conducted according to law and

that the petitioner was given an opportunity to make statements and

give evidence and call evidence. Based on the finding of this court of

inquiry the Commanding Officer of the Army decided to recover the said

money and to recommend to His Excellency the President to discharge

the petitioner from the Sri Lanka Army Volunteer Force.

s

The respondents stated that the petitioner's application is

misconceived and untenable in law, that the petitioner should have

sought redress from the Commander of the Army failing which from His

Excellency the President in terms of Sec.32 of the Army Act.

Respondent's contention is that the impugned decision is merely a

recommendation and it has not been finally decided by His Excellency

the President, and that the petitioner is challenging the recommendation

and that the petitioner's application is premature as he has sought a writ

against a recommendation and not a decision. Citing the judgment in

Air Vice Marshall Elmo Perera Vs Liyanage and Others SLR 2003

Volume 1 Page 331 he stated that to issue a writ rights of subjects

should be affected.

Citing the judgment in the case of Association of Geologists

and Engineers of Water Resources Board CA 643/2008 CA mts

16/1212010 the respondents stated that the petitioner can not seek a

writ of Mandamus as the relief sought is not a duty of public nature.

Sec. 32 of the Army Act states;

"Where an officer is aggrieved by any action of, and is

unsuccessful in obtaining redress from, his commanding officer,

6

he may make a written appeal for redress to the Commander of

the Army, and where he is aggrieved by any action of the

Commander of the Army, either in respect of his appeal or in

respect of any other matter, he may make a written appeal to the

President An order made by the President on any such appeal

shall be final. "

This clearly indicates that the petitioner after the inquiry without

seeking the relief granted to him by the Army Act has come to this court

to move for a writ to quash the findings of the inquiry which is not the

proper procedure under the Army Act.

Sec. 33 states;

(1) Where a soldier is aggrieved by any action of an officer

other than the commanding officer of the corps to which

he is attached or by any action of any other soldier, he

may make a written appeal for redress to such

commanding officer, and where he is aggrieved by any

action of such commanding officer, either in respect of his

appeal or in respect of any other matter, he may make a

written appeal to the Commander of the Army.

7

(2) Each officer to whom an appeal is made under

subsection (1) of this section shall inquire into the appeal,

and, if satisfied that the appeal should be allowed, shall

grant redress to the appellant An order made by the

Commander of the Army on any appeal made to him

under that subsection shall be final. "

This further indicates the proper procedure to follow.

The petitioner does not have the essential requirements for

granting of a writ of certiorari since his rights have not been affected by

the findings of the inquiry only a recommendation was made and it has

not been carried out and he had an alternative remedy under Sec. 32.

The petitioner has challenged the recommendation of the Commander

before the said recommendation was sent and a decision was made. By

doing so the petitioner has attempted to achieve what this court has no

jurisdiction to grant.

By R2 and R3 petitioner himself has admitted collecting the

money and has asked for time to refund the same. Petitioner has

admitted he had no authority to collect money and that he has done so

with permission from higher officers in his evidence. Petitioner's

8

application for a writ of Mandamus can not be granted to compel the 3

rd ,

4th and 8th respondent to refund the sum obtained from him as the relief

sought is not a duty of public nature. The respondents have acted within

the powers vested in them and the commander is empowered to make

recommendations.

For the afore stated reason the petitioner's application is

dismissed with costs fixed at Rs. 10,0001=

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

9