==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA 68/2011

Hatangalage Ariyasena

Accused-Appellant

Vs

HC Ratnapura 5/97

Before

Counsel

Argued on Decided on

The Attorney General.

Sisira de Abrew J & Sunil Rajapakshe J

Respondent

Tenny Fernando for the Accused Appellant. V K Ma1algoda DSG for the Respondent.

12.12.2012, 17.12.2012 and 18.12.2012 21.2.2013

Sisira de Abrew J.

The accused appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of a man

named DK Publis and for committing the offence of mischief to the house

occupied by MM Jane which is an offence punishable under section 419 of the

Penal Code. On the 1st count (the charge of murder) he was sentenced to death and

on the 2nd count (the charge of mischief) to a term of five years rigorous

imprisonment (RI) and to pay a fine ofRs.5000/- carrying a default sentence of one

year RI. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence the accused

J

fr II

iitlII

~ tlI

rIII

t

I. If!I

2

appellant has appealed to this court. The facts of this case may be briefly

summarized as follows.

The accused appellant is the son-in-law of Pub lis, the deceased person.

The accused appellant who is married to Nalani, the daughter of the deceased

person was, at the time of the incident, living in separation from her husband. The

maintenance case filed by Nalani against her husband, the accused appellant was

pending. Prior to the separation, Nalni was living with her husband in a house

which is about 170 feet away from the ancestral house. After the separation, Nalani

came and stayed with her parents in the ancestral house but her father, the deceased

person went and slept in her house in the night. Both houses were on one land. On

29th of June 1994 around 2.00 a.m. Jane, the wife of the deceased person and

Kalyani, the daughter of the deceased person heard the deceased person shouting in

pain. Jane and daughter first thought that it was due to the elephant attack but later

Jane heard the voice of three people and a sound of a motor cycle. Kalyani later

heard her brother-in-law, the accused appellant shouting in the following language:

"Your family destroyed me. One was killed. I will kill all of you. Open the door."

According to Kalyani he uttered these words near the ancestral house. Kalyani

identified this voice as that of the accused appellant.

Jane says she heard similar words. She says that she thought it was the

voice of the accused appellant. What she thought cannot be considered as evidence

as evidence as it is not something that was perceived by her senses. Thus in order

to consider whether the identity of the accused appellant has been proved or not the

court can only consider the evidence of Kalyani. Thereafter Kalyani and her

younger brother went to Mahathung alias Dayawanshe's house which was in the

neighborhood. Jane and Kalyani's younger sister went to the jungle. Following

morning they noticed that their two houses had been set on fire. Jane says that her

husband's body was inside Nalani's house where he slept. According to

3

Dr.Mataraarchchi who conducted the post mortem, the deceased person had five

cut injuries and the neck had almost been severed from the body.

Karunawahi who runs a shop which sells aluminium items, plastic items,

knives and kathies says that he sold a kathy to a person. According to her, this

person was later brought to her shop by the police with a kathy and she identified

this person as the person to whom she sold the kathy. She also identified the kathy.

Ariyarathne a bus driver who runs a bus from Balangoda to Diyawinna says

that on a day in the month of June 1994 he could remember a person travelling in

his bus seated on the seat reserved for clergies. This person kept a kathy which was

wrapped with a cement bag paper on the battery box of the bus and later got down

taking the kathy. He says that he saw this person in the police station on 30.6.94.

He identified this person in the dock. It is seen that identification of the accused by

both witnesses Karunawathi and Ariyaratne is a dock identification. But the

defence had not challenged it at the trial. Even learned counsel for the accused

appellant did not challenge this identification of the accused appellant before us.

The accused appellant in his dock statement says that Nalani who is his

wife had filed a maintenance case against him. He was arrested when he was

coming from court after paying maintenance. He further says that the police

officer, after taking his kathy from his house, took him to the shop where he

purchased the kathy. At the police station he was asked to sign a document. He

refused to sign as he did not know anything. Thereafter police officers assaulted

him and he signed the document due to fear. This was the summary of his dock

statement. The accused appellant in his dock statement did not deny the charge.

Piyadasa the brother of the accused appellant says that on 29.6.94 the

accused appellant slept in his house and on the following day he (the accused

appellant) went to court to attend his maintenance case. According to him the

accused appellant was living with him. But he does not know as to how his

4

brother's father-in-law died. The learned trial judge made certain observation to

the effect that this witness did not answer the questions and was evasive.

According to this witness the accused appellant was with him on 29.6.94. This is a

defence of alibi. But the accused appellant in his evidence did not plead an alibi.

Thus it appears that the defence of alibi is an afterthought by the brother of the

accused appellant. When I consider all these matters I hold the view that no

reliance could be placed on the evidence of Piyadasa. Thus the learned trial judge

was right when he rejected Piyadasa's evidence.

Priyangani, a clerk attached to the Magistrate's court Balangoda called

by the accused appellant as a witness, says that according to the maintenance case

record, the accused appellant who had been present in court on 30.6.94 had paid

Rs.600/- as maintenance to Nalani. The accused appellant claims that he was

arrested in Court premises. Ariyaratne, the bus driver says that he saw the accused

appellant in the Police Station on 30.06.1994. But IP Wanigasekera, the

investigating officer says that he arrested the accused appellant on 02.07.1994 and

a kathy was recovered in consequence of a statement made by the accused

appellant. He had noticed a blood stain on the blade of the kathy. If Ariyaratne saw

the accused appellant at the Police Station on 30.06.94, how does Wanigasekera

claim that he arrested the accused appellant on 02.07.94? Further the accused

appellant and Nalani were present in Court on 30.06.1994 and the accused

appellant says that he was arrested in Court premises when he went to pay

maintenance. The investigation into the case commenced on 26.09.94. Under these

circumstances it is difficult to think that the accused appellant escaped from the

eyes of the Police on 30.06.1994 when he went to Court on this day. When I

consider all these matters it is not possible to accept IP Wanigasekera's position

that he arrested the accused appellant on 02.07 .94. But the evidence of Kalyani

who identified the voice of the accused appellant remains unchallenged. No

5

contradiction or omission was marked in her evidence. She made a statement to the

Police on 30.06.94. Thus her evidence satisfies the test of consistency and the test

of promptness. Although she says that she identified the voice of the accused

appellant, she does not claim that she saw the accused appellant. When I consider

all these matters, I hold the view that she is a truthful witness and her evidence can

be accepted beyond reasonable doubt. Therefore the learned trial judge was right

when he acted on her evidence.

Next question that arises for consideration is whether the accused appellant

could be convicted on voice identification. I now advert to this question. The

accused appellant, prior to the separation from his wife, was living in his wife's

house which was in the same land where the ancestral house was located. Kalyani

was living in the ancestral house. She says that the accused appellant and Nalani

were living together for several months. The accused appellant made utterances

which I have referred to earlier. When I consider all these matters I hold the view

that there was no difficulty for her to identify the voice of the accused appellant. In

considering the question whether a person could be identified by his voice, I would

like to consider the judgment in the case of Kirpal Singh V s. The State Uttar

Pradesh AIR 1965 712 wherein the Indian Supreme Court held thus : "It is true

that the evidence about identification of a person by the timbre of his voice

depending upon subtle variations in the overtones when the person recognizing is

not familiar with the person recognized may be somewhat risky in a criminal trial.

But where the accused is intimately known to the witness and for more than a

fortnight before the date of the offence he had met the accused on several

occasions in connection with the dispute, it cannot be said that identification of the

assailant by the witness from what he heard and observed was so improbable that

the Supreme Court would be justified in disagreeing with the opinion of the Court

L

6

which saw the witness and formed its opinion as to his credibility and of the High

Court which considered the evidence against the appellant and accepted the

testimony."

Learned Addl. SG submitted that a man could be identified by his voice.

Applying the principles in the above judicial decision and the above observations, I

hold that Kalyani had identified the accused appellant by his voice. What did the

accused appellant say when he came near the ancestral house of Kalyani. "Your

family destroyed me. One was killed. I will kill all of you. Open the door." These

were the words used by him. Little before she heard these words the deceased was

shouting in pain and later she heard the groaning sound of the deceased person.

The above items of evidence clearly show that the accused appellant had killed the

deceased person. Therefore I hold that the learned trial judge was right when he

convicted the accused appellant for the offence of murder. But there is no evidence

that he set fire to the house occupied by Jane. I therefore hold that the 2nd charge

has not been proved beyond reasonable doubt. I therefore set aside the conviction

of the 2nd count and acquit him of the 2nd count. For the above reasons, I affirm the

conviction of murder and the death sentence and dismiss the appeal.

Conviction of murder and the death sentence affirmed.

Conviction and the sentence of the 2nd count set aside.

Sunil Rajapakshe J

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Judge of the Court of Appeal

tIIlJt II II it

lI

I

II

fllIt'lf

f

I II

\ I

~ I