==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No:139/2011

H.C. Tangalle Case No: 12/2003

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

Jatungage Gamini alias Mahathun

Accused-Appellant

Vs.

Hon. The Attorney General

Respondent

SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J. (ACTING P / CAl & P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA, J.

Indica Mallawarachchi for the Accused-Appellant.

Thusith Mudalige, SSC, for the A.G.

12.02.2014 & 19.02.2014

19.02.2014.

SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J. (ACTING P / CAl

c\ Accused-Appellant is present in Court produce by the

A-

Prison Authorities.

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted for raping a woman

named Wijeynayake Kankanamge Nirupa Dharshani and was sentenced

1 f

to a term of 12 years rigorous imprisonment, to pay a fine of

Rs.25,OOOj-, carrying a default sentence of 2 years simple

imprisonment and to pay a sum of Rs.150,OOO j - as compensation to the

victim, carrying a default sentence of 3 years simple imprisonment.

Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence the accused-

appellant has appealed to this Court. Before I deal with the facts of this

case, I would like to observe that the 3 years default sentence on non-

payment of the compensation is illegal.

Facts of this case may be briefly summarised as follows.

On the day of the incident when the prosecutrix was returning

from a boutique carrying a bottle of coconut oil the accused-appellant

dragged her to a nearby shrub jungle and raped her. The distance

between the place where the accused-appellant met the prosecutrix and

the place where she was raped was about 25 feet. The rape incident

took place, according to the prosecutrix, on a cinnamon land. After the

incident she went home, washed her clothes, but did not complain to the

mother or any elderly person at home. She says she was threatened

with death by the accused-appellant. The incident has come to light

nearly three weeks after the incident. Two weeks after the incident when

one day the accused-appellant and the prosecutrix were at home, the

sister of the prosecutrix noticed that both of them were at home. Sister

who felt suspicious about their behaviour questioned the prosecutrix

and slapped her. Thereafter the prosecutrix revealed the story to the

2

J[

rt

f,

I 1 j

t I I I I I ! I

sister. According to the prosecutrix the reason for the delay is the death

threat made by the accused-appellant. It is interesting to find out

whether the said evidence regarding the death threat can be accepted by

Court. The prosecutrix after the incident went to the accused-

appellant's house. Further, the accused-appellant too came to the

prosecutrix's house on several days. The prosecutrix admits that the

accused-appellant when came to her house was cracking jokes. When

we consider the above evidence it is difficult to believe that the

prosecutrix did not complain to the mother or the sister due to the death

threat made by the accused-appellant. Thus, her evidence regarding the

delay in bringing the matter to the notice of the mother and the sister

has to be rejected. The prosecutrix in her evidence says that this was

her first and last sexual intercourse. Although, the prosecutrix takes up

this position, it appears that the medical evidence does not support this

position. Medico Legal Report indicates that there was no hymen in the

girl's vagina. Doctor who gave evidence says that the absence of hymen

was due to penetration. If this sexual encounter was her first and last

sexual intercourse, the natural question that arises is as to how there

was no hymen. Doctor says that the absence of hymen has taken place

due to penetration. Thus, it is difficult to believe that she has under

gone only one sexual encounter. We are unable to believe this evidence.

Learned trial Judge without evaluating her evidence has accepted and

convicted the accused-appellant. When we consider said matters and

the evidence of the prosecutrix we feel that the girl has consented to the

sexual intercourse which is alleged to have taken place with the

3

accused-appellant. We note that when the prosecutrix was giving

evidence learned defence Counsel has suggested to the prosecutrix that

it was done with the consent. In our view the evidence of the prosecutrix

has not corroborated by the medical evidence. In a case of rape the

prosecution must prove following ingredients beyond reasonable doubt.

1) Sexual intercourse was committed on the woman.

2) The said sexual intercourse was committed on the woman by the

accused.

3) The sexual intercourse was committed on the woman without her

consent or against her will.

The prosecutrix in this case was about 16 years of age. Therefore the

prosecution should prove all three ingredients. In a charge of rape it is

dangerous to act on the prosecutrix's evidence without corroboration.

This view is supported by the judgment of His Lordship Justice Ranjith

Dheeraratne in Sunil and Another vs. The Attorney General (1986 1

SLR page 230) wherein His Lordship held thus-

"It is very dangerous to act on the uncorroborated

testimony of a woman victim of a sex offence but if

her evidence is convincing such evidence could be

acted on even in the absence of corroboration."

In our view the evidence of the prosecutrix does not inspire any

confidence. Charge of rape being the easiest charge that a woman can

4

make against a man in this world, Courts in evaluating the evidence of a

prosecutrix must be careful. In this connection I would like to consider

a passage from Granville William Proof of Guilt third Edition page

158, 159 wherein the learned author says thus-

"On a charge of rape and similar offences it is the

practice to instruct the jury that it is unsafe to

convict on the uncorroborated evidence of the alleged

victim. The rule applies to a charge of indecent

assault or any sexual offence including an unnatural

offence between males. There is a sound reason for

it, because these cases are particularly subject to the

danger of deliberately false charges, resulting from

sexual neurosis, fantasy, jealousy, spite of simply a

girl's refusal to admit that she consented to an act of

which she is now ashamed."

As I pointed out earlier from the evidence of the prosecutrix it

appears that the sexual intercourse has taken place with her consent.

Thus, I hold that the third ingredient set out above in a charge of rape

has not been proved by the prosecution. Learned Senior State Counsel

upholding the best traditions of the Attorney General's Department

submits that in view of the evidence of the prosecutrix, he is unable to

support the conviction. We are pleased with his submission. When we

consider the evidence of the prosecutrix we hold that the prosecution

5

has not proved the case beyond reasonable doubt. We therefore set

aside the conviction and the sentence and acquit the accused-appellant.

Appeal is allowed.

Appeal allowed.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

TW

6

J

)

ii

~