==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A 82/1998 (F) D.C. Gampaha 29154/P

P. Somasiri Fernando of Mangalathiri ya, Kalagedihena.

lA & 5TH DEFENDANTS-APPELLANTS

Vs.

1. Patapilige Megel Mangalathiriya, Kalagedihena.

PLAINTIFF -RESPONDENT

2. Karolis Jayasinghe of 310, Asgiri - Walpla, Udugampola.

3. M. Theges of Asgiri - Walpla, Udugampola.

4. Patapilige Amarawathie of Mangalathiri ya, Kalagedihena.

i'lD, 3RD & 4TH DEFENDANTS-RESPONDENTS

2

BEFORE: Anil Gooneratne J.

COUNSEL: P. P. Gunasena for lA & 5th Defendant-Appellants

C. Ladduwahetti for 2nd , yd & 4th Defendant-Respondents

ARGUED ON: 22.02.2012

DECIDED ON: 03.05.2012

GOONERA TNE J.

This is an appeal from a partition suit, where Plaintiff filed

action in the Original Court to partition the land described in the schedule to

the plaint among several co-owners. The original owner was one Sellenchi

who died leaving behind 6 children (admission No.2). Corpus not denied.

The only matter urged in this appeal was that one of the children of the

original owner Sellenchi, namely Basthiyana had acquired prescriptive

rights to the entire land. To prove this position is an uphill task for the

Appellant and to prove that 'Basthiyana' had prescribed as against all other

co-owners (points of contest No.4). One has to prove ouster by way of an

overtact.

3

The law is settled on this aspect that a co-owner cannot

prescribe against other co-owners unless an overtact could be established. I

have considered the long line of authorities on this aspect. However the

following as cited by the learned counsel for Respondent need to be

accepted and followed.

1. Wickremaratne Vs. Alpenis Perera 1986 SLR 190 ...

Prescription among co-owners - Proof of ouster - Partition action.

In a partition action for a lot of land claimed by the plaintiff to be a divided portion of a

larger land, he must adduce proof that the co-owner who originated the division and such

co-owner's successors had prescribed to that divide portion by adverse possession for at

least ten years from the date of ouster or something equivalent to ouster. Where such co-

owner had himself executed deeds for undivided shares of the larger land after the year of

the alleged dividing off it will militate against the plea of prescription. Possession of

divided portions by different co-owners is in no way inconsistent with common

posseSSIOn.

A co-owner possession is in law the possession of other co-owners. Every co-owner is

presumed to be in possession in his capacity as co-owner. A co-owner cannot put an end

to his possession as co-owner by a secret intention in his mind. Nothing short of ouster or

something equivalent to ouster could bring about that result.

Registration extracts are evidence of the particulars entered in the register. The objection

that the documents referred to in them should have been produced cannot be taken for the

first time in appeal.

4

2. Maria Fernando Vs. Anthony Fernando 1997 (2) SLR 356.

Partition - Prescription possession between co-owners

Long possession, payment of rates and taxes, enjoyment of produce, filing suit without

making the adverse party, a party, preparing plan and building house on land and renting

it are not enough to establish prescription among co-owners in the absence of an overt act

of ouster. A secret intention to prescribe may not amount to ouster.

The evidence led at the trial does not support any right of prescription

and or 'ouster' which would favour the Appellant. Learned Counsel for

Respondent also invited this court to an anomalous position in the Petition of

Appeal more particularly the prayer of same. Appellant seeks a dismissal of

the Appeal and in the alternative to acquire all share of co-owners. This

would in a way amount to rejection of the Petition of Appeal which cannot

be reconciled. However based on admission No.(2) 6 children inherited 1/3rd

right each.

This court also notes with much interest the written submission

filed by the Plaintiff-Respondent. The following submissions are

incorporated in this judgment which would clearly establish Respondent's

position and demolish Appellant's version.

1. Appellant admits Mathes as a child of Sellenchi. The Appellant also admits that

Agi is a child of Mathes and that she lived in this property until her death. The

Appellant says in his examination in chief that he is unaware as to whether the

Plaintiff is a child of Agi. (at page 77). The birth certificate marked P5 at page

5

197, clearly proves that the Plaintiff is a child of Agi. In this regard it is

respectfully submitted that the averments referred to earlier in the Petition of

Appeal clearly shows (paragraph 4) that the Appellant cannot deny that the

Plaintiff is a child of Agi.

2. In his cross-examination at page 90, the Appellant clearly admits that the Plaintiff

is in possession of the land. The Appellant says that Plaintiff has possessed the

land by force for 20 years.

3. In cross-examination, (at page 80) the Appellant begins with an admission of the

six brothers and sisters of Basthiyana (the Appellant's mother). It was also

admitted that some of them possess this land. The Appellant did also admit that

there were two houses in the land and that the Plaintiff lived in that house with his

mother. (at pages 81 and 82).

4. Cross examination of A. Simon (at page 112) who was called by Appellant and

has admitted to be the brother- in-law of the Appellant. This witness claims that

he knows the land since 1945 and that the plaintiff, Migel has been living in this

land since 1945. In this regard it may be submitted that if the Plaintiff is not a co-

owner, there is clear evidence to prove prescription. The Plaintiffs position is that

he is a co-owner by virtue of the fact that he is the son of Agi and that he is not in

a position of defraud the other co-owners in collusion with the Appellant.

In all the above circumstances I see no basis to interfere with the

judgment of the learned District Judge. The trial Judge seems to have

rejected the version of the Appellant and also disbelieved the evidence of the

Appellant. There is also reference to another jUdgment marked P3 (D.C

243 711L) pertaining to the same corpus, filed by the Appellant against the

Plaintiff, in this case. Even in that, Defendant-Appellant had given false

evidence.

6

As such I affirm the judgment of the learned District Judge.

There is no merit in this appeal. This appeal is dismissed with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL