==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A.No.554/98 (F) D.C.Mt Lavinia No.1902/L

A.Wilbert Fernando Dewapurage Seelat Fernando No:27, Sri Bodhirukkarama Road, Wellawatte.

Appellants Vs. Piyadasa Hettiarachchi No: 28/B, Prathibimbarama Road, Kalubowila, Dehiwala.

Respondents

C.A.No.554/98 (F)

Before

Counsel

Argued & Decided on

K.T.Chitrasiri,J.

1

D.C.Mt Lavinia No.1902/L

K. T.Chitrasiri,J.

Hemasiri Withanachchi for the Substituted-Defendant-Appellants.

Rohan Sahabandu P.C. with Samithre Kumarawadu for Plaintiff - Respondent.

10.05.2013.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the judgment dated 22.05.1998 of the

learned District Judge of Mt.Lavinia. In that judgment learned District Judge

decided the case in favour of the plaintiff-respondent (hereinafter referred to as

the plaintiff) as prayed for in the plaint dated 15.03.1998, having rejected the

prescriptive claim made by the defendant-appellants (hereinafter referred to as

the defendants).

In that plaint, the plaintiff had prayed inter alia that he be declared

entitled to the lands referred to in the two Schedules thereto, and also to have a

2

declaration preventing the defendants from entering the above mentioned two

lands referred to in those two Schedules. At this stage, it must be noted that

there is no prayer in the plaint to eject the defendants from the two lands claimed

by the plaintiff. Relying upon the pleadings, the plaintiff has suggested five

issues whilst the defendants have raised four issues. Basically, the plaintiff 's

issues are directed to establish the title of the disputed two lands. The

defendants issues are on the basis of prescription to the land referred in the

Second Schedule. Significantly, the defendants have not raised any issue

claiming rights to the land described in the First Schedule to the plaint.

Learned Counsel for the appellant submits that the plaintiff has failed to

establish title to the land referred to in the Second Schedule. It is the land shown

as Lot 1 in the Plan DCML 3/92 marked as P2 in evidence and it is also shown as

part of Lot 305 in Plan No.498 marked as Pl.

Having perused the impugned judgment Court is unable to see the

reasons assigned by the learned District Judge as to why he decided that the

plaintiff is entitled to the land referred to in the Second Schedule.

Learned Counsel for the defendants further submits that no evidence

whatsoever is found to establish the title of the plaintiff to the land referred to in

the Second Schedule to the plaint. Learned President's Counsel for the plaintiff

3

concedes that there is no evidence that had been led to prove title of the plaintiff

to the land described in the Second Schedule.

Therefore, it is clear that the plaintiff has failed to establish title to the land

referred to in the Second Schedule to the plaint and hence1 it is clear that the

learned District Judge misdirected himself when he declared that the plaintiff is

entitled to the land described in the Second Schedule to the plaint.

Accordingly, the appeal in respect of the decision as to the land referred to

in the Second Schedule to the plaint is allowed.

The other issue is in respect of the declaration sought in respect of the land

referred to in the First Schedule to the plaint. The learned District Judge has

decided that the plaintiff is entitled to the land referred to in the First Schedule

on the basis of a partition decree filed in case bearing No.737 /P decided in the

District Court of Mt.Lavinia.

The defendants have not claimed any right to this land referred to in the

First Schedule to the plaint in their pleadings. Neither have they raised any issue

claiming rights to the said land. Therefore, it is correct to decide that the plaintiff

is entitled to the land referred to in the First Schedule to the plaint on the basis of

the partition decree in the aforesaid decision in case No.737 /P.

4

Accordingly, the appeal in respect of the land referred to in the First

Schedule to the plaint is dismissed. Parties are to bear their own expenses in this

appeal.

Appeal is partly allowed. No costs.

Appeal is partly allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

KLP/-