==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for a

mandate in the nature of Writs of

Certiorari in terms of Article 140 of

the Constitution of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

J.P.Alensu,

Chandrasiri Hotel and Bakery,

No.372, Hospital Road,

Kalubowila, Dehiwala.

Petitioner

c.A. Writ Application No: 455/2006 Vs

BEFORE

COUNSEL

1. Mahinda Madihahewa,

Commissioner General of Labour,

Department of Labour , Labour

Secretariat, Colombo -05.

And six (06) others.

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J.

J.Jayawickrema

for the Petitioner

Respondents.

Mrs. Maithri Amarasinghe Jayatilake SC

for the Respondents

Argued on

Decided on

S.Sriskandarajah I

06.12.2010

14.02.2011

2

The Petitioner was managing the hotel called Chandrasiri Hotel during the

relevant period. On 17th September 2004 an employee of the said hotel named

Bandula Bandara having enjoyed one week leave prior to 17.09.2004 made

another leave application. The 4th ,5th ,6th Respondents with Bandula Bandara

and 8 other employees have threatened the Petitioner stating that if the

Petitioner does not grant leave to Bandula Bandara they will not turn up for

duty and disrupt the work at Bakery and Hotel. The Petitioner submitted that

11 employees of the hotel and bakery including 4th, 5th,6th Respondents and

Bandula Bandara did not report for duties and kept away without prior notice

and / or approval of the Petitioner. The 4th ,5th and 6th Respondents made

three separate applications to the Commissioner of Labour dated 03.12.2004 in

terms of the Termination of Employment of workmen (Special Provisions)

Act No 45 of 1971 as amended. The Petitioner in the inquiry before the

Commissioner raised objection to the said applications on several grounds

namely: that the Petitioner is not the employer, that the number of the

workmen in the work place were less than 15 and that the 4th ,5th and 6th

Respondents had admitted that they have vacated their post on their own.

Hence the said applications cannot be considered under the said Act No.45 of

1971.

After an inquiry the 1st Respondent made an order on 22.12.2005 to pay

compensation to the 4th ,5th and 6th Respondent. The Petitioner in this

application has challenged the said order and had sought a writ of Certiorari

to quash the said order on the grounds; that the inquiry was held by the 2nd

and 3rd Respondents but the order was made by the 1st Respondent who has

not heard the parties and thereby there is a breach of the principles of natural

3

justice and that the 1st Respondent has not given sufficient reasons for his

decision.

The Respondents' position is that on many occasions at the inquiry it had

come to light that the Petitioners had more than 15 employees at the relevant

time. The employees who filed the said application before the Commissioner

claimed that there were more than 25 employees at the relevant time. The

Petitioner has failed to prove their own contention or contradict the

Respondents position by producing evidence such as attendance registers or

payrolls. It is also evident from the EPF contributions that the Petitioner is the

employer of the said employees. In addition there is ample evidence to show

that the Petitioner has overall supervision and control of the employees and

the business. The term employer has been defined in the interpretation

Section of the Act to include any person who on behalf of any other person

employs any workman. In Ibrahim v Edirisinghe 32 NLR 214 the court

interpreted the term "Employer" to include a person who enters into any

agreement expressly or impliedly with any labourer and the duly authorised

agent or manager of such person. Therefore the Petitioner who claims that he

is only managing the said hotel and hence he cannot be the employer of the

4th ,5th and 6th Respondent is untenable.

If the Commissioner after an inquiry found that an employment of an

employee was terminated in contravention of the provisions of the

Termination of Employment of workmen (Special Provisions) Act he could in

the ordinary circumstances order reinstatement with back wages under

Section 6 of the said Act on the basis that the services of the workmen had not

been terminated. It is settle law that the Commissioner is empowered under

Section 6 in special circumstances to award compensation in lieu of

reinstatement.

4

In K.D.CPradeep and 16 Others v Skyspan Asia (Put) Ltd and 4 Others

CAjWRIT/App/No.2045/2003 C A Minutes 22/06//2005 the Court after

considering the cases Eksath Kamkaru Samithiya v Commissioner of Labour [2001J

2 Sri.L.R137 at 142 &155, Blanka Diamonds (Pvt) Ltd. v Coeme [1996J, 1 Sri.L.R

200 at 205, Lanka Multi Moulds (Pvt) Ltd v Wimalasena, Commissioner of Labour

and others [2003J 1 Sri.L.R 143, held:

"there is no provision in the Act to deal with a situation where the

employee has become incapable of assuming duties due to various

circumstances at the time of the determination of the Commissioner ;

that the employer had terminated the services of the employee in

contravention of the Act. In these circumstances the Courts have

interpreted the word "may order" in Section 6 empowering the

Commissioner to order compensation instead of ordering the employer

to continue to employ the workman".

Section 6A deals with the situation where the employment of any workman is

terminated in contravention of the provisions of this Act in consequence of

the closure by his employer of any trade industry or business, in these

circumstances the Commissioner is empowered to award compensation to the

employees whose services are terminated in contravention of the said Act as

an alternative to reinstatement of such workman. But there is no provision in

law to deal with a situation where the employer has become incapable of

providing employment to its employees not due to closure but due to various

circumstances that has arisen at the time of the determination of the

Commissioner on an application of the employees in relation to the

termination of their employment.

Appling the rationale of the above judgement if the circumstances are such

that ordering reinstatement causes employer-employee unrest in the opinion

5

of the Commissioner he could order compensation instead of ordering the

employer to continue to employ the workman. The Commissioner in his order

has given his reasons for ordering compensation in lieu of reinstatement.

The compensation awarded to the workmen is in terms of the formula

published in the Gazette No 1321/17 dated 31.12.2003 therefore the

compensation awarded cannot be considered as unreasonable.

The Petitioner has also challenged the said order on the ground that the

inquiry was held by the 2nd and 3rd Respondent but the order was made by

the 1st Respondent and hence the rules of natural justice had not been

followed.

In Nagalingam 'V Lakshman de Mel, Commissioner of Labour 78 N.L.R 231,

Sharvananda J with Tennekoon, c.J and Gunasekara J agreeing held:

"Mr.Jayawardena, appearing for the Petitioner, urged two grounds in

support of his application.

One ground was that the inquiry in to the 3rd respondent's application

under section 2 of the Act was conducted by the 2nd Respondent and

that in the premises the 1st respondent had no jurisdiction to make the

order complained of. Section 12 of the Act provides that the

commissioner shall have power to hold such inquiries as he may

consider necessary for the purposes of the Act. Section 11(2) authorises

the commissioner to delegate to any officer of the Labour Department

any power, function or duty conferred or imposed on him under the

Act. Hence, it was lawful for the Commissioner to have delegated to

his assistant, the 2nd Respondent, the function of holding the inquiry

into the 3rd respondent's application. The ultimate order dated 28th

March, 1974,(P12) , though it has gone under the hand of the 1st

6

respondent, was in fact, as a perusal of the original record disclosed,

made on the recommendation of the 2nd Respondent. In the

circumstances, there is no substance in this objection. In fact, the

Counsel for the petitioner, when it was pointed out to him that the

order only embodied the decision of the 2nd Respondent, did not press

the matter further,"

In Kundanmals Industries Ltd v Wimalasena Commissioner of Labour and Others

[2001J 3 Sri.L.R 229 J.A.N.De Silva PICA (as he then was) held:

"1 see no serious objection to the Head of the Department taking a final

decision having considered the evidence recorded and documents

available to him on the question that has to be decided. In the

circumstances I state that there is no merit in this submission. There is

no material available to establish that the 1st respondent mechanically

adopted the recommendations without giving his mind to the evidence

and documents."

The power to delegate hearing under the Termination of Employment of

Workman Act was considered and accepted in the above cases. In the absence

of any material that the commissioner has not given his mind to the inquiry

and the recommendation of his subordinate officers the order of the

commissioner cannot be quashed. The burden is on the Petitioner to show

that the Commissioner has not given his mind to the inquiry proceedings and

the Recommendation of the inquirer as there is a presumption in the Evidence

Ordinance that all official acts are done according to law.

For the above reasons the Petitioner is not entitled to any relief as prayed for

in the Petition. The application of the Petitioner is dismissed without costs.

/.~/'-. ~udge of the Court of Appeal