==== BLOCKS ==== 

" •

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Kumaradath De Soysa Siriwardena

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

C.A. No. 217/2003

H.C. Colombo No. 8030/1996

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DE CIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Sunil Rajapaksa J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDENT

Dr. Ranjit Fernando for the Accused-Appellant

Yasantha Kodagoda D.S.G. for the Complainant-Respondent

23.09.2014 & 24.09.2014

13.11.2014

1

.'

2

GOONERATNE J.

The Accused-Appellant was a dealer in motor vehicles, supplied

mainly by his brother who was a resident in Japan. The indictment presented

to the High Court of Colombo was on two counts of cheating in terms of

Section 403 of the Penal Code. The period relevant to count No. (1) was

between 1st and 31st March 1995. Accused fraudulently and dishonestly

induced and obtained a sum of Rs. 275, 000/- from one K. Jinadasa by II

undertaking that a vehicle be imported and delivered to him from Japan.

Count No. (2) was that he dishonestly obtained on 30th May 1995 a sum of Rs.

600,000/- from one Upali Lakshman Alwis for the same purpose to import a II

vehicle. After trial the Accused-Appellant was convicted and sentenced to 5

years rigorous imprisonment on each count and a fine of Rs. 10,000/- on each

count which carries a default sentence of 1 year's rigorous imprisonment. The

sentence to run consecutively which would be altogether 10 years and a fine

of Rs. 20,000/-. Learned counsel for the Accused-Appellant informed court

that his client was granted bail pending appeal after 6 months of incarceration

from the date of conviction.

! Il

;

3

The learned counsel for the Accused-Appellant at the outset of the

hearing of this appeal submitted that he would only canvass the sentence and

argued that a custodial sentence is not warranted in the circumstance of this

case and drew the attention of this court, to a long lapse of time from the date

of offence being 1995 and as at the present day, over 19 years have lapsed.

However the learned Deputy Solicitor General drew the attention of the court

to several items of evidence to demonstrate the dishonest/fraudulent criminal

intention and acts of the Accused-Appellant which deserve a custodial

sentence and argued vehemently that the material placed before the High

Court support the prosecution version and as such moved court to affirm the

conviction and sentence of the High Court and dismiss this appeal.

I would very briefly, inter alia refer to the submissions of learned

Deputy Solicitor General to support the views expressed by him as above.

(learned counsel for the Accused-Appellant did not seriously attempt to resist

such submissions since he is only canvassing the sentence).

(a) Only two vehicles had been imported during the period June/July 1995.

First import was on 07.06.1995 and the second was on 30.05.1995. This is

supported by the evidence of the officers of the Department of Customs.

I i i I

•

4

(b) The cheque and money given to Accused by complainant Alwis and

Jinasena was a sum of Rs. 600,000/- and 275,000/-.

(c) No vehicles were handed over to complainants for the said sums.

(d) By letters P2 Accused stopped payment on the cheque given to

complainant. As such cheque dishonoured.

(e) Cheques marked Pl and P6 produced by the prosecution pertains to the

accounts maintained by the Accused, as testified the Bank Managers of the

People's Bank and Seylan Banks. It was the evidence of the Bank Managers

that the Accused noticed, the bank to stop payment. (Accused admitted

this fact in his evidence)

The Accused-Appellant being a dealer of vehicles no doubt had

obtained the sums of money described in the indictment in count Nos. 1 & 2

from the complainants named therein. He having obtained such sums of

money never attempted to import the vehicles promised to them or hand over

any vehicle to the two complainants. It is clear from the evidence led at the

trial that the Accused-Appellant dishonestly and intentionally cheated the

complainants.

This court need not once again evaluate the evidence led at the trial.

I see no basis to interfere with the findings of the trial Judge. However what

remains to be considered is whether a custodial sentence already imposed by

the trial Judge need to be affirmed?

I

..

5

The date of offence as stated in the indictment is during the period

march to May 1995. As at the year 2014 over 19 years have lapsed. Accused-

Appellant, had been granted bail pending his appeal, after 6 months of

incarceration from the date of conviction. We are called upon to decide on the

sentence in the above circumstances of this case. So many years have lapsed

and there is no justification at this point of time to affirm the sentence

imposed by the learned High Court Judge. I am guided by the case reported in

78 NLR 413 Karunaratne Vs. State. Sentence - offence committal 10 years ago

- considerations applicable in suspending sentence.

Held by Rajaratnam J.

That while the trial judge was right in sentencing the accused to a term of two years

rigorous imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs. 1000 and that even if the provisions relating

to the suspension of sentences were in operation at that time and the case was concluded

in due time, this was not a case where the sentence would have been suspended, having

regard to the gravity of the offence. But, on the other hand, when a deserving conviction

and sentence have to be confirmed ten years after the proved offence the judge cannot

disregard the serious consequences and disorganization that it can cause to the accused's

family.

Therefore the delay of 10 years to finally conclude the case is a very relevant

circumstance to be taken into consideration and in the circumstances of the case a

suspended sentence is appropriate.

1

I

I l

• ..

6

Per Vythialignam~ J.

'In the instant case the essential question is, is the strain that the accused would

have undergone during these ten years when the charge was handing over his head such as

to outweigh the demands of public policy that for this type of offence and this class of

offender a different sentence of immediate imprisonment should be imposed".

We would accordingly vary the sentence and impose a suspended

sentence on both counts, and on counts (1) and (2) 2 years rigorous

imprisonment imposed on both counts, separately would be suspended for a

period of 10 years, on each count. Further we impose a fine of Rs. 10,000/-

each on count No. (1) and on count No. (2). Any default of payment of fine

would carry a default sentence of 1 year rigorous imprisonment to run

consecutively. We also make order for payment of compensation to the

complainant described in count No. (1) of the indictment in a sum of Rs.

275,000/- and to the complainant in count No. (2) of the said indictment a sum

of Rs. 600,000/-. In the event the complainants are no longer living the legal

heirs of the complainants would be entitled to above.

I

I I

•

7

In default of payment of compensation as above, a default sentence

of 1 year rigorous imprisonment is imposed. Default sentence to apply to each

count separately and would run consecutively.

Subject to above variation on sentence, this appeal stands dismissed.

N.S. Rajapaksa J.

I agree. ~~~

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

! I i !. ! , t t

~ II

i ! ,I f

f II I f f ,

f [ l t Ii ,

t