==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPULIC OF SRI LANKA

CA226/2008

H.C.(Galle)2575/2005

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

Sunil Edirisinghe alias Kira alias Kiriya

Appellant

Vs.

The Attorney General,

Respondent

Sisira J. De Abrew, J

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J

Amila Palliyage for the

Accused-Appellant.

Sarath Jayamanna DSG

for the AG

28.05.2013

1

Sisira J. De Abrew, J

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases. The accused

appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of a man named

Bataduwa Arachchige Chandrasiri and was sentenced to death. Being

aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence he has appealed to

this court. The case for the prosecution entirely depended on

circumstantial evidence.

The wife of the deceased person, on hearing that her husband had been

assaulted went and questioned the deceased person as to who

assaulted him. He replied that kiriya who was hiding assauted him with

a Weya (an instrument like an axe which is used to get coconut timber

sawn). When the deceased was being taken to the hospital, he made

the same dying declaration to the driver of the vehicle. Two police

officers who were going to investigate the crime met the vehicle in

which the deceased was being taken to the hospital. When two police

officers inquired from the deceased person as to what happened, the

deceased person made the same dying declaration to the two police

officers. Kiriya is the accused in this case. According to the wife of the

deceased person, 10 days prior to the incident the accused appellant

scolded her suspecting that her husband had given information with

regard to his brother's illicit liquior. After the incident, when the wife of

2

the deceased person met the accused appellant on her way, she

-to ~ questioned the accused appellant as what he did to her husband. The

{\ accused appellant then addressed her in the following language "I will

remove you". Thereafter he chased after the deceased person's wife who

in fear ranaway. According to the medical evidence the deceased person

was able to speak after he received the injuries. Learned counsel for

the accused appellant submits that he has no compelling reasons to

challenge the conviction. When we consider the evidence led at the

trial, we are of the opinion that the learned trial judge has rightly

convicted the accused appellant for the offence of murder. We therefore

affirm the conviction and the sentence and dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J

I agreed.

D

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Na/-

3