==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A. 163/2009 H.C. Anuradhapura Case No: 118/06

Yalagalage Nandasiri Koruwewa, Maradankadawala.

Appellant Vs. Hon Attorney General Attorney General’s Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

C.A. 163/2009

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

H.C. Anuradhapura Case No: 118/06

Sisira J. de Abrew,J. (Acting PICA) &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

Indika Mallawarachchi for the Accused-Appellant.

Haripriya Jayasundara DSG. for the Respondent.

05.12.2013

********

Sisira J. de Abrew,J. (Acting PICA)

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases. Accused-

appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of a man named Lalith

Wattegama and was sentenced to death. Being aggrieved by the said

conviction and the sentence he has appealed to this Court. Facts of this

case may be briefly summarized as follows:

On the day of the incident around 4 0' clock, there was a fight between

the accused's nephew on one side and the deceased and deceased's nephew

on one side. Around 5.30 p.m. on the same day the accused-appellant had

come to the boutique of the deceased person an inquired whether the

deceased had assaulted his nephew. The deceased person had replied in

the following language. "Yes we did it what about it "Thereafter deceased's

1

brother Disna Sunil thinking that there would be a fight, held the accused

person by his collar and attempted to push him out of the boutique.

Deceased's sister Swarna says that there was a fight between the deceased

person and her brothers. She also says that there was an exchange of

words between the two parties. She admits that the accused-appellant

came to the boutique carrying a helmet in one hand.

The accused-appellant who gave evidence under oaths said that he

came to the boutique to inquire into the incident between his nephew and

the deceased person. He submits that there was a grapple between him

and the brothers of Swarna and in the process the deceased person had

sustained an injury.

The question that must be considered is whether the accused-

appellant really came to fight with the deceased person or not. This must be

considered with the item of evidence that at this time accused person was

carrying a helmet. According to Swamalatha's evidence there was a fight

between the two parties and there was an exchange of words. Accused-

appellant has only inflicted one stab injury. When we consider all these

matters we are of the opinion that the accused-appellant in this case has

inflicted the injury on the deceased person in the course of a sudden fight.

We therefore hold that the accused-appellant should have been convicted of

the offence of culpable homicide not amounting to murder on the basis of

sudden fight. The learned trial Judge had not given adequate consideration

to this fact. For these reasons we set aside the conviction of murder and the

death sentence and substitute a conviction of culpable homicide not

2

I

f! I!

iI

amounting to murder on the basis of sudden fight which is an offence

punishable under Section 297 of the Penal Code. We sentence the accused-

appellant to a term of 12 years Rigorous Imprisonment and to pay a fine of

Rs: 5000/- carrying a default sentence of six months imprisonment.

Subject to the above variation of the verdict and the sentence, appeal of the

Appellant is dismissed. We direct the Prison Authorities to implement the

'l,./ sentence from the date of sentencing lJ..Hh by the learned trial Judge.

Appeal dismissed.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Jmr/

3

II!: II t frI

~ f I!I.

~. f~ ,

I ! I

\I,

;,

I!t

i