==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

C.A. 70/97 (F).

D.C. Mount-Lavinia L/26/92

BEFORE: A W A SALAM, J

Lakshman Waidyasiri, 12/1A, De Alwis Road, Kalubowila Road, Dehiwala.

Susila Ranasinghe, 211/33/ B, Old Kottawa Road, Mirihana. Nugegoda.

Defendant-Appellants

Vs.

M.Malani Costa, M.A Siripala, 145/6, High Level Road, Kirulapana.

Plaintiff-Respondents.

'COUNSEL: Ranjan Suwru:dandarathna for the Defendant-

Appellant and L.Wickramaratne for the Plaintiff

-Respondents.

ARGUED ON: 26.03.2012.

DECIDED ON: 28.08.2012.

CA 70/97 F DC Mt Lavinia L 26/92 Judgment 28 August 2012

., ....

A. W.A. Salam, J.

T

~e plaintiff-respondents (hereinafter referred to as the .

plaintiffs) fued action against the defendant-appellan!.§-

(hereinafter referred to as the "Appellants") and another

person for a declaration that the respondents and another

person who is not a party to the case are the lawful

owners of the land described in the schedule to the plaint,

an order of ejectment of the defendants therefrom and

damages. The defendants in their answer moved for a

dismissal of the plaintiffs' action on the basis that the

plaintiffs have no title to the land in question and that the

defendants are the owners of a portion of the property

which is the subject matter of the action. After trial the

learned district judge held inter alia that one Asilin

Fernando was the owner of the subject matter of the

action by right of long and prescriptive possession and

that she had transferred her rights to the 18t and 2nd

plaintiffs. He further alleged that the occupation of the

land by the defendants is unlawful. Being aggrieved by the

said judgement the Appellants have preferred the present

appeal.

At the trial, the plaintiffs led the evidence of (1) Asilin

Fernando, the alleged original owner of the subject matter

.... I-',I-'.LO'..L.L Thomas (4)

CA 70/97 F DC Mt Lavinia L 26/92 Judgment 28 August 2012

Kuruppu Arachchige Sriyani (5) Gunadasa Perera (6)

Attanayaka Attorney-at-law (7) Welikada Liyanage

Gnanathilaka and (8) Siriwardena Kuruppu. The plaintiffs

closed their case producing documents marked P1 to P11.

In presenting the defendants case the 2nd defendant

testified before the trial judge and closed the case of the

defendants producing documents marked D 1 to D8.

The purported original owner of the land Asilin Fernando

claimed that she had possessed the property for a long

period of time and executed a deed of declaration, five

years prior to the institution of the action. It is after the

execution of this deed; Asilin Fernando transferred her

rights to the plaintiffs in the year 1989. The plaintiffs filed

, the action barely 3 years after the execution of the deed~

of transfer in February 1992. In this background, to

obtain a declaration of title to the property the plaintiffs

relied heavily on their possession of the subject matter

which extended to nearly 3 years and the possession of

their predecessors Asilin Fernando and her husband.

Admittedly, Asilin Fernando has had possession of the

subject matter only for the short period of three years after

the execution of the deed of declaration declaring her as

the owner. As far as the evidence of Asilin Fernando is

concerned, she has not testified clearly as to her mode of

possession so as to acquire a valid prescriptive title to the

land in dispute. The learned district judge has been

CA 70/97 F DC Mt Lavinia L 26/92 Judgment 28 August 2012

" (' ,... r' c·, .. , L '"' .. ,, 0 '

influenced to a great extent by the deed of declaration

executed by Asilin Fernando, when he came to the

conclusion that the plaintiffs are the owners of the

subject matter. This evidence, in my opinion IS not

adequate to confer title on the plaintiffs against the

defendants who are also on the land having purchased

rights. As a matter of fact, the defendants have

constructed a substantial house on the subject matter and

it was led in evidence that they have purchased rights

from one of the owners of the property who instituted a

partition action in respect of the larger land of which the

subject matter is a portion.

Even though, several witnesses have testified on behalf of

the plaintiffs, none of them had given any material

evidence to substantiate the claim of the plaintiffs that

they have prescribed to the property on their own

possesslOn and that of the possesslOn of their

predecessors in title.

The documents produced by the plaintiffs at the trial are

of recent origin and quite noticeably none of the

documents fall outside the period of 10 years or at least

count 10 years preceding the date of the action. In so far

as the plaintiffs' documents are concerned, the electoral

register PI cannot be considered as sufficient evidence of

original ownership. P2 is a survey plan by which the

CA 70/97 F DC Mt Lavinia L 26/92 Judgment 28 August 2012

purported original owner has subdivided the larger land in

the year 1988 and therefore is of recent origin. P3 and P4

being deeds on which the plaintiffs have purchased rights

are dated 2nd August 1989 and therefore cannot be

considered as evidence establishing the alleged

prescriptive possession for more than 10 years. P5 is also

a plan made in 1980 and does not constitute evidence in

proof of prescriptive title. P6 is a complaint made to the

police in the year 1990 and P7 is a copy of the caption of

the relevant partition case. Both documents are not

adequate enough to come to the fmding that the plaintiffs

have prescribed to the subject matter. P8 is dated 22

November 1995 and the deed of declaration P9 is dated 1

May 1987. Thus, it would be seen that none of the

documents are relevant to the period beyond 10 years

from the date on which the action was filed. It must be

observed that upon the production of the declaration of

title deed P9 alone, one cannot infer that the original

owner of the land has had long and prescriptive

possession, in the absence of positive proof to that effect.

In a rei-vindicatio action, the burden is always on the

plaintiff to prove that he is the owner of the subject matter

of the action. As has been correctly observed by the trial

judge a weak defence cannot in any event lend support to

the plaintiffs. As has been repeatedly held by our courts,

in a rei-vindicatio action the burden is fairly and squarely

on the plaintiffs to establish the title to the property in

CA 70/97 F DC Mt lavinia l26/92 Judgment 28 August 2012

respect of which a declaration is sought by adducing

cogent evidence, which burden they have failed to

discharge.

In any event, on a perusal of the judgement, it appears

that the learned district judge has not carefully analysed

the evidence of the 2nd plaintiff and the other witnesses for

the plaintiffs as to the issue relating to prescription. It is

trite law that clear and cogent evidence must be adduced,

before someone can claim a declaration of title to an

immovable property. The learned district judge has not

analysed the evidence adduced with regard to the

possession of the plaintiffs and their predecessors in title

as required by law. For this reason, I am of the opinion

that the impugned judgement cannot be allowed to stand

and therefore should be reversed. Accordingly, the case is

remitted to the district court for re-trial in due course.

In the result the appeal is partly allowed subject to costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Vkg/-

CA 70/97 F DC Mt Lavinia L 26/92 Judgment 28 August 2012