==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A 1231/98(F) D.C. Kegalle 159/RE

1.

2A.

~ Nail Fareen Keed~~ No. 121128, ain Street, Kegalle PL7

Vs.

J. B. Dassanayake No. 66. Kalugalle Mawatha Kegalle (Deceased)

Seelawathie Dassanayake No. 66, Kalugalle Mawatha Kegalle.

DEFENDANTS

And

Seelawathie Dassanayake No. 66, Kalugalle Mawatha Kegalle.

2A.DEFENDANT -APPELLANT

Vs.

Nail Fareena Keedle No. 121/28, Main Street, Kegalle

PLAINTIFF -RESPONDENT

t

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERA TNE J.

Anil Gooneratne

Appellant is absent and unrepresented

Lal Matarage with Palitha Subasinghe for Plaintiff-Respondent

13.06.2011

04.07.2011

2

This was an action for rent and ejectment filed in the District

Court of Kegalle. District Court entered judgment in favour of the Plaintiff-

Respondent as prayed for in the plaint. This appeal arises from the judgment

dated 7.9.1988. On the date of hearing Appellant was absent and

unrepresented. Even on at least two previous occasions Appellant was absent

and unrepresented though initially appellant was represented by Counsel.

Due to Appellant's absence the appeal is liable to be rejected due to the

reason of Appellant's failure to exercise due diligence to prosecute this

appeal. However this court considered the merits of this case and learned

Counsel for Respondent assisted court by making submissions before this

court on 13.6.2011 being the date of hearing of appeal.

,

1 3

Plaint filed in the District Court is based on 3 causes of action.

i.e arrears of rental, reasonable requirement and deterioration of premises.

Parties proceeded to trial on 8 issues. Defendant-Appellant did not raise any

issues. On the evidence led at the trial there is no question that the premises

in dispute is not rent controlled premises. The Rent Act applies to the

premises, and the tenant would be entitled to the statutory protection

available under the statute.

Notwithstanding the protection afforded to the tenant, I find

that the learned Trial Judge has arrived at proper conclusions on arrears of

rental, based on evidence. The wife of the original tenant (Dissanayake) had

given evidence and the following have transpired from evidence which

points are relevant.

(a) that until 1990 there were arrears of rent

(b) After 1990 rent paid but such payment had not been established.

(c) Vague answer of witness that her late husband would have paid the

arears of rental. No definite reply as to whether rent was paid or not.

A cause of action has not been based on sub-letting but the trial

Judge has arrived at this decision that the premises had been sub-let. If that

be so equity demands that the land-lord should get relief. However based on

arrears of rental the tenant has to be evicted.

The tenant has in this case taken up the position that arrears has

been deposited in court. To give a strict interpretation to Section 22 (3) (c )

4

of the Rent Act one could conclude that rental must be paid direct to the

land-lord and not elsewhere. 1993(2) SLR pg. 74 held that deposit to the

credit of the case is no compliance with Section 22(3) (c ) of the Rent Act.

On the question of reasonable requirement which is supported

by evidence the case of Thamby Lebbe Vs. Ramasamy 68 N.L.R 356,

Justice G.P.A Silva held "where in regard to the issue of reasonable

requirement" it is shown that the hardship of the land-lord is equally

balanced with that of the tenant, land-lord's claim must prevail". Followed

in 1982( 1) SLLR 106.

There is also a question of attornment in this case. In view of

the above it would be unnecessary for me to deal with this proposition.

In all he above circumstances, there is no merit in this appeal.

Appeal dismissed with costs.