==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 250/2013 & C.A 251/2013

C.A 250/2013 & C.A 251/2013

Nirmala Hemamali Dissanayake

61/ A1, Dambahena Road,

Maharagama.

PETITIONER

Vs.

3. P.M. Salahudeen

Director of Education

Teacher Transfer Unit,

Ministry of Education,

"Isurupaya", Battaramulla.

14. Anura Dissanayake

Secretary (Acting)

Ministry of Education,

"Isurupaya", Battaramulla.

And 12 others

RESPONDENTS

Withanage Kalyani Dissanayake

"Vijayasiri",

Udagama,

Bope.

PETITIONER

Vs.

1

1i t

2. Ranjith Chandrasekera

Director, National School

Ministry of Education,

"Isurupaya", Battaramulla.

3. P.M. Salahudeen

Director of Education

Teacher Transfer Unit,

Ministry of Education,

"Isurupaya", Battaramulla.

14. Anura Dissanayake

Secretary (Acting)

Ministry of Education,

"Isurupaya", Battaramulla.

And 11 others

RESPONDENTS

BEFORE: Anil Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

COUNSEL: Nalin Amarajeewa for the Petitioner

Sanjeewa Jayawardena P.e. for 4th Respondent

Rajaratnam D.S.G. for 1st - 3rd & 5th _14th Respondents

ARGUED ON: 30.01.2014

DECIDED ON: 12.02.2014

2

i l IIII;

~ f t !

rIl

3

GOONERATNE J.

The two Petitioners in these applications for a Writ of Certiorari,

seeks to cancel letter marked P5a of 16.7.2013 pertaining to a transfer order from

one national school to another national school. Order of this court, on the said

applications deal with both applications since the identical issue is being

canvassed by the two Petitioners who were Teachers at Royal College, Colombo 7.

Petitioner in CA 250/2013 was by letter P5a transferred to Thurston College,

Colombo 7 and the other Petitioner in CA 251/2013 was by letter P5a transferred

to Isipathana College. Both applications were supported before this court on

31.1.2014 and the learned Deputy Solicitor General who appeared for 1st - 3rd and

5th - 14th Respondent raised a preliminary objection and contended that in view

of Article 61A (lih Amendment) to the Constitution of our country, court has no

jurisdiction to inquire into or call in question the impugned order made by the 1st

Respondent. Secretary to the Minister of Education as per letter marked P5a.

All counsel who appeared for the Petitioners and the Respondents

were heard by this court in support of each other case. Learned Counsel for the

Petitioner contends that the above article 61A of the Constitution has no

t

~

I

I

f

t

4

application in the context and circumstances of these applications, Perusal of the

body of the Petition of the petitioners, we find that several allegations are stated

therein. The grounds on which the Petitioners rely to quash letter P5a are more

particularly referred to in paragraphs 12 & 14 of application No. 250 7 251

respectively. Petitioners in their respective applications attempt to establish that

the transfer effected in letter P5a was done at the instigation and or behest of the

4th Respondent and as such P5a is illegal, nullity, unreasonable, void etc.

However this court is of the view that provisions contained in Article

61A of the Constitution is a complete bar and a jurisdictional ouster and onh' the

Apex Court would have jurisdiction to inquire as contained therein.

Article 61A reads thus:

Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4) & (5) of Article 126, no court or tribunal

shall have power or jurisdiction to inquire into, or pronounce upon or in any manner call in

question any order or decision made by the Commission, a Committee, or any public officer, in

pursuance of any power or duty conferred or impose on such Commission, or delegated to a

Committee or public officer, under this Chapter or under any other law.

We had the benefit of perusing the following authorities cited by

learned Deputy Solicitor General. The case of Ratnasiri & Others Vs. Ellawala &

Others 2004 (2) SLR 180/181 considers a variety of issues as follows which are

inter alia relevant to the cases in hand.

IIt

5

Held:

(i) Article 61A - 1ih Amendment - seeks to oust the jurisdiction of courts to review

determination of the P.S.C except where there has been a violation or imminent

violation of a fundamental right.

Per Saleem Marsoof, J. PICA.

liThe seventeenth Amendment has brought about several fundamental changes in

relation to the public service, the most important of which was the abolition of the

pleasure principle which was recognized by our law as a fundamental norm inherent in

the prerogative of the British Crown and was expressly embodied in every Constitution

ofthis country since 1946/1.

(ii) Provisions of the Establishment Code such as Cap. 111:5:1 being subordinate legislation

cannot prevail over or inhibit the application of Article 61 in terms of which the decision

of the P.S.C which has been made in pursuance of powers vested in the P.S.C by Article

65 is precluded from judicial review.

(iii) However Article 55 (5) would be of no effect if the order is made by an officer who does

not have legal authority to do so. In such cases it could be held that the decision of

the relevant authority is null and void and the preclusive clause is no bar to review.

(iv) As the impugned decision of the 1-3 respondents who purported to act the T.A.B. was

clearly not made in pursuance of any power or duty conferred or imposed on them

by any provision of law or delegated to them by the P.s.c. Article 61A has no

application to the impugned decision.

Per Saleem Marsoof, J. PICA.

"I am inclined to the view that the P.s.c. as well as a Committee of the Commission or a

Public Officer exercising delegated authority may in appropriate circumstances ratify an

order made or action taken by a public officer without authority; there is nothing in the

II

6

Constitution or any law to prevent the respondent Secretary, from making a decision in

regard to a matter where some person or body of persons has previously made some

decision without any authority to do so.

(v) The decision or determination made by the 4th respondent Secretary, being

the decision or determination of a public officer exercising authority delegated by the

P.S.c. are precluded from judicial review by Article 61A

(vi) It is futile to issue a writ, since what is sought to be quashed therein is the decision

said to have been made by the T.A.B. however the 4th respondent to whom the

power of transfer has been delegated by the P.S.c. has approved and adopted the

decision of the TAB. No relief has been sought against that decision; therefore it

would be futile to grant the relief prayed for since it would still leave intact the

decision of the 4th respondent.

On the question of ouster of Jurisdiction the Case of Katugampola vs.

Commissioner General of Excise and others 2003 (3) SLR 207 need to be

considered.

The petitioner sought (1) to quash the decision taken by the Public Service Commission to

cancel the examination (2) a writ of mandamus to release and declare the results of the

examination already held.

Held:

(i) Art 55 (5) restricted the application to orders or decrees concerning appointment,

transfer dismissal or disciplinary control of a public officer. Whereas Article 61A (1i

h

amendment) dealt with any type of decision so long as it is made pursuant to a

power conferred.

f,1i lIt [i

7

(ii) The only ground upon which the writ jurisdiction could be sought under

circumstances where a challenge was being made regarding the promotion and/or

appointment, transfer etc. was where the person who made the impugned decision,

did not have any legal authority to make such a decision.

No claim has been made that the person who make the promotion had no legal

authority to make such decision.

(iii) 'Ouster clause' precluded the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal and grants exclusive

jurisdiction to the Supreme Court. A person aggrieved by the decision would have to

invoke the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court under Article 126.

The applicability of Article 61A no doubt oust the jurisdictions

of court but would not have any applicability if it could be shown that there had

not been a proper delegation of power as required by the said article. A Writ of

certiorari is sought in the application in hand more particularly for the reason

stated in para 12 & 14 of the petition of the relevant applications that the transfer

has been done by the 1st Respondent at the instigation and or behest of the 4th

Respondent. There is no challenge to delegation of power. In fact para 2(1) of the

petition reiterate some aspect of mala fides (but only a mere statement) and para

2(v) of the petition support the view there had been a delegation of power by the

Public Service Commission.

It

,

I

1 i ! I

I ! I ,

8

This court having heard counsel on either side is of the view that

these are not fit and proper applications to issue formal notice. As such we refuse

to issue notice. Applications dismissed without costs.

Application dismissed.

W.M.M.Malinie Gunaratne J.

I agree.

~;:J?Cs~~A UJ c---JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

f,

~ I

Ir I

I

[