==== BLOCKS ==== 

«

I t I

1 J I

%

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No:31/2010

H.C. Ratnapura Case No:56/2006

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED AND

DECIDED ON

Arachchi Fernandulage Sarath Fernando

Accused-Appellant

Vs.

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J. (ACTING P / CAl & P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA, J.

Chathura Galhena for the Accused-Appellant.

Chethiya Gunasekera, SSC, for the A.G.

19.02.2014.

SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J. (ACTING PICA)

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases. The

accused-appellant in this case was convicted for raping a woman

named Mahagamagc Sumanawathie and was sentenced to a term of 15

years rigorous imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs.I0,000j -, carrying

a default sentence of 1 year rigorous imprisonment. Being aggrieved

by the said conviction and the sentence he has appealed to this Court.

1

•

According to the facts of this case the prosecutrix has given a

room to one Sarath Abeysiri who is an Ayurvedic doctor. On the date

of the alleged incident somebody came to her house and asked for a

room. She was in the habit of renting rooms to various people. The

prosecutrix refused to give a room. According to her thereafter she saw

this man in the kitchen. Thereafter the accused put her on a bed and

raped.

The most important question that must be decided in this

case is whether the prosecution has proved the identity of the accused-

appellant beyond reasonable doubt. When considering this matter the

following matters are relevant. Prosecutrix says that she did not know

the name of the accused-appellant at the time of the alleged incident.

According to her, she did not know the name of the accused-appellant

even at the time she made a statement to the police. Following day of

the alleged inciden t when she was going to the Devalaya she met

Sarath Abeysiri who was staying in one of her rooms. Even at that

time she did not divulge the name of the accused-appellant to said

Sarath Abeysiri. It appears from the evidence that when she was

examined by the doctor she had divulged the name of the accused-

appellant to the doctor. She, in her short history given to the doctor,

has stated that the name of the accused-appellant is Sarath. But this

name (Sarath) has not been mentioned to Sarath Abeysiri with whom

she was going to the police station. When we consider all these

2

1 1 j I matters we are unable to conclude that the identity of the accused-

appellant has been proved beyond reasonable doubt.

Learned Senior State Counsel upholding the best traditions of

the Attorney General's Department submits that in view of the

contradictory nature of the evidence relating to the identity of the

accused-appellant, he is unable to support the conviction. We are

pleased with this submission. When we consider all the above matters,

we hold the view that the prosecution has not proved the case beyond

reasonable doubt. Learned trial Judge has failed to consider the above

matters. We set aside the conviction and the sentence and acquit the

accused-appellant of the charge. Appeal is allowed.

Appeal allowed.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

TW

3