==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A 2011998 (F)

R. R. N. Wije~unawardene widow of deceased 4t Defendant Pallekkankanamge Herbert Dias Wijegunawardene.

PETITIONER-APPELLANT

D. C. Matugama P2313

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

Anil Gooneratne J.

Vs.

K. Don Leslie Bandula Kumarasiri Timber Trade Centre, Near Police Station, Meegahatenne

PLAINTIFF -RESPONDENT

2. S. Ramanie Kannangara Near Police Station, Mananegedera,Meegahatenne

And 10 others

DEFENDANT -RESPONDENTS

Appellant is absent and unrepresented

T. Weerakkody for Plaintiff-Respondent

2

ARGUED ON: 13.10.2011

DECIDED ON: 20.10.2011

GONNERA TNE J.

The Appellant in this case was present in person when this

appeal was first listed to be mentioned on 1.7.2011. Thereafter on two

occasions (inclusive of date for hearing) the appellant was absent and

unrepresented. It is very unfortunate that the Appellant did not take

necessary steps to proceed with this appeal and prosecute this appeal having

previously deposited brief fees. On this ground alone this appeal could have

been rejected. Nevertheless the learned counsel for the Plaintiff-Respondent

assisted this court by his submissions and also urged that on a preliminary

point alone this appeal should be rejected. It was his contention that the

Appellant should have in the first instance moved this court by way of Leave

to Appeal. In any event learned counsel for Plaintiff-Respondent supported

the order of the learned District Judge dated 16.12.1997

3

The Petition of Appeal has been filed by the widow of the 4th

Defendant in the partition suit. By the Petition of Appeal the Petitioner-

Appellant has sought to set aside the above order of the learned District

Judge and to set aside the judgment dated 20.12.1996 and has prayed for

trial do nova. Perusal of the original court record I find that judgment was

delivered on the uncontested evidence of Plaintiff by the District Judge on

20.12.1996 in this partition suit. Based on Plaintiffs evidence and plan and

report marked x and x 1 respectively judgment was entered and certain shares

have been allocated to the Plaintiff and other Defendants. The record

indicates that interlocutory decree was entered and court has directed the

final survey and accordingly on the return of the final survey final decree

entered and registered.

The final survey and report was filed on 27.3 .1997. The

Petitioner has applied to the District Court on 27.10.1997 about 7 months

after filing of final survey. In terms of Section 48(4) of the Partition Act No.

21 of 1977, Petitioner-Appellant should have objected within 30 days of

such filing of final survey. The learned District Judge has considered all the

above matters in his order of 16.12.1997. There is no valid ground to reverse

such order or set aside the order of the District Court.

4

The 4th Defendant whilst living had been present in the District

Court (J.E 21.3.1993) and claimed the plantation in lot 2. It is also recorded

that the 4th Defendant had conveyed his interest by deed marked P2 & P3.

Thereafter he had died. The Petitioner-Appellant has taken up the position

that the 4th Defendant her husband was ill or insane and that decree was

entered when he was not in a position to attend court.

This is a case where final decree was entered. It has a

conclusive effect as against the whole world. No other ground whether fraud

or otherwise can it be disturbed - Carolis Appu Vs. Ratnayake et al 1 S.C.R

274. Followed in 23 NLR 370,56 NLR 345; 4 CWR 406.

In the circumstances there is not even a remote possibility to set

aside the learned District Judge's order. I cannot find substantial grounds or

special circumstances to interfere with the order by way of revision. On the

other hand party concerned should have taken steps within the required time

frame of 30 days as stated above. As such I affirm the order of the original

court. Appeal and or revision application refused and dismissed without

cost.

Appeal dismissed.

CJr~&w~~

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL