==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURt OF APf>EAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for a

mandate in the nature of Writ of Certiorari

in terms of Article 140 of the Constitution of

the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

lanka.

*******

C.A. (Writ) Application No. 81/2010

1

Ceylon Electricity Board

No. 50, Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner

Mawatha, P.O. Box 540,

Colombo 02.

PETITIONER

Vs

1. Hon Athauda Seneviratne

Minister of Labour and Man Power

Ministry of Labour and Man Power

Labour Secretariat,

Colombo as.

2. Hon. Mahinda Samarasinghe

Minister of Human Rights and

Disaster Management,

No 2, Wijerama Mawatha,

Colombo 07.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

2

3. Upali Wijeweera

Commissioner General of Labour

Labour Secretariat,

Colombo 05.

4. Kapila M. Sarachchandra

No 53/2, Nawala Road,

Nugegoda.

5. M.A.M. Fernando

No 71/1, "Sada Sarana"

Yakkalawatte, Bakmigolla,

Ibbagamuwa.

RESPONDENTS

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

: Uditha Egalahewa P.C. with

R. Dayananda for the Petitioner.

S.T. Gunawardane for the 5th

Respondent.

Chaya Sri Nammuni SC for the

1st to 4th Respondents.

: Oih March, 2014.

: osth June, 2014

Oeepali Wijesundera J.

The petitioner a Statutory Board Established under the Ceylon

Electricity Board Act No. 17 of 1969 (as amended) filed this application

against the respondents praying for a writ of certiorari to quash the order

of the 4th respondent dated 27/05/2009 contained in Government

Gazette No. 1610112 dated 1410712009 marked as P2.

The 5th respondent had been employed by the petitioner Board

and for charges levelled against him at a domestic inquiry his services

had been terminated. Initially he was interdicted with effect from

14/02/1983 and his services were terminated on 02/01/1989 by the

petitioner. The 5th respondent had filed an application in the Labour

Tribunal and after due process of law the learned President of the

Labour Tribunal had made order reinstating the 5th respondent with 30

months backwages as at 09/09/1989. The petitioner being aggrieved by

this order appealed and the petitioner's application was dismissed by

order dated 20/08/1992 and has ordered the petitioner to reinstated the

5th respondent on or before 01/10/1992. There was no appeal to the

Supreme Court.

3

! tf,

r

[IIi I Ir

JII!!

The petitioner Board when granting the long term service awards

to its employees' did not consider the 5th respondent since his period of

unemployment from 14/02/1983 to 26/10/1992 was considered as a

break in service despite him being reinstated. The 5th respondent has

written to the Commissioner General of Labrour (3rd respondent) who

after an inquiry ordered the petitioner to give all his dues as if he had

been in continuous service to the 5th respondent within 14 days. The

said order is marked as A18. The petitioner did not adhere to this order

and the 5th respondent has again complained to the 3rd respondent who

referred this under Section 4(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act to the

Arbitrator.

The Arbitrator having heard both parties has given the award in

favour of the 5th respondent which was published in the Government

Gazette marked P2 which the petitioner is seeking to quash.

The petitioner claimed that the Arbitrator's award was outside the

scope of the reference and therefore it is arbitrary. He stated that the

Arbitrator cannot order the granting of a service award and that he

cannot award salary increments and promotions since all of them had to

be earned by the employee concerned. Petitioner argued that the

4

Arbitrator had stepped out of his reference from which he derives

jurisdiction for the award.

The petitioner has cited the judgment in Nagaratnam Vs State of

Madras 1965 LLI 85 which states that if a party raises a jurisdictional

issue the Tribunal must first decide on that issue before proceeding

further. This does not arise in this application. Citing the judgment in

Peoples Bank Vs Gilbert Weerasinghe BASL Law Journal Volume XIV

page 133 he stated that the Arbitrator is wrong in coming to the

conclusion that the workman should be awarded long services rewards

when the workman failed to establish his entitlement to the same. He

also cited the judgments in Richard Pieris Vs Wijesiriwardena 62 NLR

233, Municipal Council of Colombo Vs Munasinghe 71 NLR 223 and

State Bank of India Vs Edirisinghe 1991 1 SLR 397 and argued that the

Arbitrator cannot create new rights and that the Tribunal has to make a

just and equitable order.

The respondents while agreeing that the Arbitrator has to act

within the scope of the reference stated that the reference itself is wide

enough to encompass the relief granted.

5

I !I

I

I

II! I

I

I,ii •!II

~!

il

~If

~

1f&f!{

In reply to the petitioner's argument that the 5th respondent was

awarded the highest salary point at reinstatement the respondent stated

citing the judgments in De Silva Vs Senanayake (1967) 70 NLT 320 and

Corea Vs Corea (1925) 328 that an erroneous use of the discretion

cannot be corrected by way of writ.

The respondent stated that the Arbitrator award (b) reads to say

that the 5th respondent be awarded the service award disregarding his

break in service which is within the scope of the reference.

The respondent stated that the Arbitrator is not compelling the

petitioner to give the 5th respondent promotions or increments and that

the award merely states that any promotions or increments so far

withheld due to the non-recognition of the period as continuous service

be given to the 5th respondent if that was the only criteria upon which

such benefits were withheld.

Citing the judgment in Sukumaran Vs The Maharajah

Organization and two others 2008 BLR 398 the respondent stated that

the award of the Arbitrator was within the scope of the reference

because there is a judicial dicta to say that an Industrial Arbitrator differs

6

i

II II!

tI

fft

I I I J I

from a Commercial Arbitrator in that he is entitled to look into and

interpret the contract of employment within the broad parameters of

justice and equity and infer new legal bonds between the employee and

employer.

When granting a writ this court has to see whether the facts show

the existence of any pre requisites to grant a writ, is a question of law

which has to be decided on a sound and reasonable interpretation. In

the instant case it is the award of the Arbitrator. The award was made

after considering the evidence placed before the Arbitrator as the

learned State Counsel pointed out In the case of Brown and Company

PLC Vs Minister of Labour and others 2011 (2) BLR 485 it was held.

"The function of the Arbitral power in relation to industrial

disputes is to ascertain and declare what in the opinion of the

Arbitrator ought to be the respective rights and liabilities of the

parties as they exist at the moment the proceedings are

instituted" this gives a wide margin for the Arbitrator to inquire into and

call for evidence in order to meet the ends of justice.

7

The Arbitrator has carefully analysed the evidence placed before

him and made the award. This court on perusal of P2 find that he has

analysed and given reasons as to how he came to make the said award.

Therefore one cannot say he has gone beyond his reference.

For the afore stated reasons this court decides that the Arbitrator

has considered both law and equity which does not exceed his

jurisdiction. Therefore this court has no reason to interfere with the

decision made by the Arbitrator. Petitioner's application is dismissed

with costs fixed at Rs. 25,0001=.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

8