==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

1. Henry Shanthikumar David

2. Maitland International (Pvt.)

C.A 16/2012 (Writ)

BEFORE: Anil Gooneratne J.

COUNSEL: N. Kodituwakku for the Petitioners

Limited. No. 59/23,

Shounders Court, Colombo 2.

PETITIONERS

Vs.

Director General of Customs

Customs House,

40, Main Street,

Colombo 11.

And 4 others

Arjuna Obeysekera D.S.G for the Respondents

ARGUED ON: 26.11.2013

DECIDED ON: 27.03.2014

2

GOONERATNE J.

Petitioners in this Writ application have sought Writs of

Certiorari/Prohibition and Mandamus against the Respondents, all of whom

are officials of the Department of Customs. When this application was taken

up for hearing on 26.11.2013 learned counsel for the Petitioner informed this

court that his clients would not pursue the relief pertaining to certiorari as

contained in sub para 'b' of the prayer to the petition. As such what remains is

a Writ of Prohibition and Mandamus. By a Writ of Prohibition and Mandamus

Petitioner seek to prohibit and terminate a customs inquiry. There is no clue as

to the statutory provisions relied upon by the Petitioners to seek the relief by

way of prohibition and mandamus.

The case of the Petitioners as submitted to this court is that they

were engaged in the business of importing electrical goods. Petitioner had on

19.11.2009 in order to clear a consignment of goods submitted a customs

declaration. (Cusdec P2, and commercial invoice P3). The goods were subject

to a physical examination which revealed mis-description and undervaluation.

1st Petitioner had admitted in a statement to the Customs Department that

t f fI (

t

~ f!,fi

I I ! I I 1

1 'I 1 I I I i I ~ I

3

there was undervaluation and mis-description, on 10.12.2009 and in a further

statement on 24.12.2009 1st Petitioner clearly admitted under valuation and

mis-description. About 1 ~ years later Petitioner attempted to take up the

position of duress and that the above statements were made under duress.

This no doubt is a question of fact and this court cannot in review proceedings

decide on such disputed question of facts. The delay of 1 ~ years is also not

acceptable.

Respondents position is that the cusdec submitted by the Petitioner

revealed that the commercial invoice submitted by the Petitioners did not

reflect the correct transaction value. On examination of cargo the above facts

were found to be correct. Further investigations revealed that the essential

characteristics and details of the goods such as model, brand name, make, size

etc. had not been declared either in the cusdec or in the invoice. Thus the

Petitioner is guilty of mis-description. The investigations also revealed that the

Petitioner had failed to declare in the cusdec certain goods that had been

imported by the Petitioner.

Customs investigation and subsequent inquiry were initiated not only

on undervaluation of goods, but also the offence of mis=description and non-

declaration of good which amount to smuggling. The false declaration as

4

contemplated under Section 52 of the Customs Ordinance and thereby

submitting a lower value than the actual value had been confirmed by the

report of the valuation division of the Customs Department. I note the

following gathered from the material placed before this court.

(a) Where the evidence reveals that an offence in terms of Section 52 of the

Customs Ordinance has been committed (i.e the value declared in respect

of any goods according to Section 51 is a false declaration), the necessity to

follow Section 51A does not arise.

(b) In any event, the inquiry was not limited to undervaluation but also

encompassed mis-description and non-description and therefore, the

provisions of Section 51A was not applicable in the circumstances of this

case.

(c) The evidence available with the Customs Department show very clearly

that the Petitioners have knowingly undervalued the goods and that the 1st

Petitioner has admitted undervaluation in the two statements made by him

the Customs officers.

In view of all the facts placed before this court, I find no legal basis to

terminate or halt a customs inquiry. Petitioner has not satisfied this court to

grant the relief by way of prohibition and mandamus. Nor can I find any legal

basis to refund the funds received by the Bank guarantee P6. The demand

made therein is perfectly justifiable and is in order. Petitioners were guilty of

I

~ II I t l II I I II!I t

I

\ ! f , ;

5

undervaluation and mis-description and non-declaration which offences

attract the consequence of forfeiture in terms of Section 47 & 52 of the

Customs Ordinance. I note that Bank guarantee P6 issued by Nations Trust

Bank for a sum of Rs. 7 million was valid till 27.7.2010. The expiry date had

subsequently been extended. Claim made by the Customs Department was

during the validity period. I have also considered the letters marked and

produced as 1R10, 1R11.

Mandamus cannot issue unless a there be a legal right of

performance of a legal duty is established. Right to be enforced must be a

public right and the duty sought to be enforced must be of a public nature. The

case law cited by learned Deputy Solicitor General is relevant and applicable in

the circumstance of this case. Perera Vs. National Housing Development

Authority 2001 (3) SLR 50 at 53.

lion the question of legal right, it is to be noted that the foundation of mandamus is the

existence of a legal right. Mandamus is not intended to create a right but to restore a party

who has been denied his right to the enjoyment of such right".

Ratnayake and others Vs. CD. Perera and others 1982 2 SLR 451 at 456

liThe general rule of mandamus is that its function is to compel a public authority to do its

duty. The essence of mandamus is that it is a command issued by the superior courts for the

performance of a public legal duty. Where officials have a public duty to perform and have

( I I ! II

! !

f I I,

J I!1II

i f l i j I

1 I I

6

refused to perform, mandamus will lie to secure the performance of the public duty, in the

performance of which the applicant has sufficient legal interest. It is only granted to compel

the performance of duties of a public nature and not merely of a private character that is to

say, for the enforcement of a mere private right, stemming from a contract of the parties".

In all the above facts and circumstances I see no legal basis to grant

any relief to the Petitioner. The violations are more or less admitted by the

Petitioner. As such Petitioner's application is dismissed without costs.

Application dismissed.

1-1 (

I 1 !I t