==== BLOCKS ==== 

320/2012

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A.Case No:-320/2012

H.C.Colombo Case NO:-237/01

Before:-H.N.J.Perera, J . &

A.H.M.D.Nawaz, J.

Maileen Arachchige Suramya

Damayanthi Perera,

Accused-Appellant

v.

Hon.Attorney General

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

Counsel:-Neranjan Jayasinghe for the Accused-Appellant.

Shanaka Wijesinghe D.S.G for the Respondent

Argued On:-10.02.2015

Written Submissions:-26.02.2015

Decided On:-08.05.2015

H.N.J.Perera, J.

The accused appellant was indicted in the High Court of Colombo

under section 54 A(d} & 54 A(b} of the Opium and Dangerous Drugs

Ordinance as amended by Act No. 13 of 1984 for being in possession

and trafficking 9 grams of heroin on or about 29.09.1999 at

Mattakkuliya. The learned High Court Judge by his judgment dated

27.07.2012 found the accused-appellant guilty of the charges,

convicted and sentenced the accused-appellant to Life imprisonment

on each count. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and sentence

the accused-appellant had preferred this appeal to this court.

The version of the prosecution was that on an information received

from a private informant by S.I,Basnayake of the Police Nacotic

Bureau arranged and conducted a raid. I,P.Nihal Perera with a police

party which included S.I,Basnayake P.c. 19427 P.S.17859

Wickremasinghe, P.C. 30762 Senaratne, P.C.19427 Gamini, P.C.6486

Chaminda, P.C. 3024 Bandara, P.C. 25141 Guneratne and

W.P.C.Priyani . They were all dressed in civil except for P.C.Gamini

who was in the uniform. All of them including the informant left

towards Mattakkuliya Samagipura in the vehicle No. 61-7856 at

14.45 and came up to the police post Mattakkuliya.

According to the evidence of I,P.Perera thereafter S.I Basnayake and

WPC Priyani with the informant proceeded towards Wickremasinghe

road on foot. Thereafter the informant proceeded alone towards

Wickemasinghe pura and came back in a little while and informed

I,P.Perera that the said woman was seen near the Budu Medura of

the Housing scheme wearing a flowered dress and to go and search

her. Thereafter I,P.Perera with S.I,Basnayake and W.P.C.Priyani

proceeded on foot towards the said Housing scheme and saw a

woman wearing a flowered dress near the Budu Medura. Witness

Perera accosted the accused-appellant and discovered a rose

coloured celephane bag in her right hand with heroin. Having taken

the accused-appellant into custody the accused-appellant was taken

to the Nacotic Bureau and the witness I,P.Perera testifies as to the

sealing of productions and the witness WPC Priyani also refers to the

acts of the main investigation officer IP Perera with regard to the

arrest, detection, sealing, and handing over productions to witness

Sunil Perera.

Prosecution led the evidence of two witnesses who participated in

the raid in order to prove the case beyond reasonable ground.

The learned High Court Judge in his judgment came to a conclusion

that there are no vital contradictions in the evidence of the two

witnesses either inter se or per say.

The defence case was that the accused-appellant was at home she

heard someone knocking at her door. She opened the door and saw

Wimal Perera and a group of persons in front of her door. They

questioned her about the whereabouts of her husband and she said

that he has gone to work. Thereafter they took her to custody stating

that they were in fact looking out for her and that her name also

appears in the list.

It is contended by the Counsel for the accused appellant that the

learned trial Judge has arrived at the said conclusion without taking

into consideration the following contradictions.

(l)According to 51 Nihal Perera P.C Gamini was in uniform and

according to witness WPC Priyani all the officers were in civil.

(2)According to 51 Nihal Perera the informant was present from

the time they left the Nacotic Bureau. And according to witness

WPC Priyani the informant joined them on their way.

(3)According to 51 Nihal Perera they had gone to Mattakkuliya

area and the vehicle had been stopped near the police check

point at Mattakkuliya. And according to him with him IP

Basnayake ,WPC Priyani and the informant had got off the

vehicle and four of them had walked about 75 meters in a wide

road named Sri wickema Road and reached a small road to

their left side which is between two lines of houses. It was the

evidence of IP Nihal Perera that police officers stopped near

the entrance to the narrow road and the informant walked in

to the lane and came back in five minutes and told that the

accused-appellant is coming out from her house wearing a

frock. According to the said witness Perera having given the

information the informant left and that he with the witness

Basnayake and WPC Priyani went in and took the accused-

appellant into the custody near the Budu Medura. According to

WPC Priyani the vehicle proceeded in Sri Wickema road passing

the police check point and stopped in a place in between two

lines of houses. According to this witness she remained in the

vehicle and the informant got off the vehicle and walked into

the narrow road and she was taken by Witness Nihal Perera

only after the informant came back and gave the information of

the accused-appellant to Witness Nihal Perera.

The WPC Priyani had categorically stated that the accused-appellant

who was coming out of the house was shown to witness Nihal Perera

by the informant.

The learned trial Judge after analysing the evidence of the two main

witnesses for the prosecution has come to the conclusion that the

evidence given by the said witnesses are inconsistent.

Section 134 of the Evidence Ordinance reads as follows:-

No particular number of witnesses shall in any case be required for

the proof of any fact.

In fact as a matter of inveterate practice, more than cautiousness,

especially in drug related offences, where raids are conducted by

trained police officers, it is fair to require corroboration. It is only

then the defence will have the opportunity to challenge the veracity

or the credibility of the prosecution witnesses and get an

opportunity to contradict the said witnesses. To mark contradictions

per se, where trained and experienced police officers give evidence

in seemingly impossible. In this type of cases it is the evidence of the

police officers who are trained officers of state are the main

witnesses. Therefore the courts are duty bound to be careful in

accepting and acting on the evidence on face value.

E.S.S.R.Coomaraswamy in The Law of Evidence Volume 2 Book 1 at

page 395 dealing how the police evidence in bribery cases should be

considered has stated as follows:-

Ifln the great many cases, the police agents are, as a rule unreliable

witnesses. It is all ways in their interest to secure a conviction in the

hope of getting a reward. Such evidence ought, therefore, to be

received with great caution and should be closely scrutinized.

Particularly where their evidence is the only corroborating evidence

of the evidence of the accomplice".

R.K.W.Goonasekera in his book If Bribery" at page 93 commented on

this fact as follows:-

If More than once the Supreme Court has been disturbed by the

tendency of trial judges to treat the evidence of prosecution

witnesses in bribery cases with particular sanctity. In Mohamed

Saleem's case the court observed that the evidence of prosecution

witnesses does not carry any presumption of truth and should not be

given undue weightage. In Siriwardene V. The Attorney General the

Chief Justice cautioned trial judges against proceeding upon an

irrebuttable presumption that police officers engaged in the bribery

commission's Department always speak the absolute truth as this

would be to deny the accuse the opportunity of a fair triaL"

By the same token the same principles should apply and guide the

judges in the assessment of evidence of excise officers in narcotic

cases. In this case the prosecution has led the evidence of two

witnesses who took part in the raid. The 51 Perera's evidence is

contradicted by the evidence of PWC Priyani in many aspects. There

is a doubt as to who was speaking the truth whether it was 51 Perera

or the WPC Priyani. It is also not very clear whether at the time she

gave evidence she had the notes before her or whether she gave

evidence from her memory. There is no clear evidence that the

police received any information about a woman suspect at that time.

When the evidence of the two witnesses is taken together their

evidence contradicts each other. The learned trial Judge too has

arrived at the conclusion that the evidence of the two main

witnesses is inconsistence. There is a doubt as to whether the

witness WPC Priyani was in fact present at the time of the arrest of

the accused-appellant.

The evidence led by the prosecution indicates that the accused-

appellant had been taken into custody near her house. But strangely

the police had not cared to search the house of the accused-

appellant. The accused-appellant has denied the fact that WPC

Priyani ever arrested her or searched her. 5he has categorically

stated that no WPC was present at that time. The accused -appellant

has mentioned that Wimal perera has come to her house, obviously

referring to 51 Nimal Perera. It is very clear that the trial judge has

rejected the evidence of the accused-appellant for trivial reasons.

The function of an appellate court in dealing with a judgment mainly

on the facts from court which saw and heard witnesses has been

specified as follows by Macdonnel C.J.in the King V. Guneratne 14

Ceylon Law Recorder 174:-

III have to apply these tests as they seem to be, which a court of

appeal must apply to an appeal coming to it on questions of fact:

(1)Was the verdict of the judge unreasonably against the weight

of the evidence,

(2)Was there misdirection either on the law or the evidence;

(3)Has the court of trial drawn the wrong inferences from the

matters in evidence.

Similarly Wijewardene, J, stated in Martin Fernando V. Inspector of

police, Minuwangoda 46 N.L.R.210, that:-

IIAn appellate court is not absolved from duty of testing the evidence

extrinsically as well as intrinsically" although lithe decision of a

magistrate on questions of fact based on demeanour and credibility

of witnesses carries great weight IIWhere lIa close examination of the

evidence raises a strong doubt as to the guilt of the accused, he

should be given the benefit of the doubt."

For the aforesaid reasons I find that it is unsafe to allow the

conviction to stand. Accordingly I set aside the conviction and the

sentence dated 27.07.2012.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

A.H.M.D.Nawaz, J

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL