==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

CA Application No. H/C Case No. Rev/27/2011 M/C Case no. 15214

In the matter of an application for Revision under and in terms of Article J 38 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, from an order of the learned High Court Judge of Gampaha dated 7th December 2011 in the exercise of its Revisionary Jurisdiction.

M.E.P Samaraweera Assistant Commissioner of Labour District Labour Office No. 207, Sri Bodi Road, Gampaha

COMPLAINANT Vs.

Fergasam Garment Industries (Pvt) Limited Export Processing Zone Wathupitiwala, Nittambuwa

RESPONDENT

AND NOW BETWEEN

Fergasam Garment Industries (Pvt) Limited Export Processing Zone Wathupitiwala, Nittambuwa

RESPON DENT -PETITION ER

Vs.

M.E.P Samaraweera Assistant Commissioner of Labour District Labour Office No. 207, Sri Bodi Road, Gampaha

COMPLAINANT -RESPONDENT

AND NOW BETWEEN

C.A.(PHC)APN No.164/2011 H.C.Gampaha Rev.No.27/2011

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

Sisira de Abrew, I.

Sisira de Abrew, J. &

K.T.Chitrasiri, J.

M.Adamaly with J.Abeysunder for the Petitioner

M.Fernando DSG for the Respondent

26.03.2012

Both Counsel heard in support of their respective cases.

The Commissioner of Labour filed a certificate in the Magistrate's Court

to recover sum of Rs.24,750/00 from the petitioner in this case as it had failed to

pay EPF. The learned Magistrate has made an order dated29.08.2011 directing

the petitioner to pay the said amount and to recover that amount by way of a

fine.

Being aggrieved by the said order of the learned Magistrate, the

petitioner filed a revision application in the High Court seeking inter alia to stay

I

• the operation of the Magistrate's order. The learned High Court Judge has

refused to stay the operation of the learned Magistrate's order and decidedto

proceed with the case.

Learned Counsel for the petitioner submits that if the operation of the

Magistrate's order is not stayed an irreparable damage will be caused to the

petitioner as he had to pay the fine. In these circumstances he seeks an order

from this Court to stay the operation of the learned Magistrate's order dated

29.08.2011 until the final determination of the High Court case.

Learned DSG has no objection to this application.

Learned Counsel for the Petitioner limits his case filed in this Court to the

paragraph (b) of the prayer to the petition dated 12.12.2011.

Considering all these matter we issue an order staying the operation of the

learned Magistrae's order dated 29.08.2011 until the final determination of the

High Court Case No.Rev.27/11.

Registrar is directed to communicate this order to the Magistrate Court of

Attanagalla by way of a telegram and over the telephone on payment of charges

2

• by the petitioner. Registrar is also directed to issue a certified copy of this order

to the petitioner on payment of usual charges.

In view of this order learned Counsel for petitioner makes an application

to withdraw the petition in this case. The application for withdrawal of the

petition is allowed.

The proceedings in this case are terminated.

~.

~--lf---trr-JUDO

K.T.Chitrarsiri, T. (

I agree. ~d)

JUDGE OMHE COURT OF APPEAL

KLP/-

3