==== BLOCKS ==== 

1 I , 1 I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. [WRIT] APPLICATION

1. Intergrated Farmers Company [Pvt] Ltd No.17/ 10, Negombo Road Padilithuduwa Kelaniya.

2. T.A.M.S.Mahamoor No.4 / 5, Devatagahawatta Padilithuduwa Kelaniya.

Petitioners

NO.602/2011 VS

1. Director General of Customs Department of Customs Customs House

No.40, Main Street Colombo 11.

2. K. G.J ayawardane Superintendent of Customs Department of Customs Customs House

No.40, Main Street Colombo 11.

3. D.Gunatilake Superintendent of Customs Department of Customs Customs House No.40, Main Stree Colombo 11.

4. W.M.Seneviratne Banda Appraiser Long Room

Department of Customs Customs House No.40, Main Street Colombo 11.

1

IIII !II(

tI

fI {II!

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON

DECIDED ON

5. M.H.Piyadeva Deputy Director of Customs Department of Customs Customs House NoAO, Main Street Colombo 11.

6. H.K.K.Karunasekera Deputy Superintendent of Customs Department of Customs Customs House NoAO, Main Street Colombo 11.

7. M.H.Seneviratne Superintendent of Customs Department of Customs Customs House NoAO, Main Street Colombo 11.

8. H.M.S.Premaratne Deputy Director of Customs Department of Customs Customs House NoAO, Main Street Colombo 11.

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J L.T.B.DEHIDENIYA, J

Respondents

Faisz Musthapha P.C. with Faisza Markar and

Thushani Machado for the Petitioner

Viraj Dayaratne D.S.G. for the Respondents

25.02.2015

08.06.2015 by the Petitioner 05.06.2015 by the Respondents

30.06.2015

2

f

!I

f I [I

CHITRASIRI, J.

Two petitioners by their petition dated 05.10.2011 sought inter alia to have

a mandate in the nature of a writ of certiorari quashing the order made by the

Deputy Director of Customs (DDC) by which he made an order of forfeiture of

270 MT of Indian Yellow Maize in terms of Section 47 of the Customs Ordinance.

Simultaneously, he made order to release the same on a mitigated sum of

Rs.6,954,220j- of the forfeiture, in terms of Section 163 of the Customs

Ordinance. He also imposed a penalty of Rs.100,000j- on the Chairman of the

1st petitioner-company. He further imposed a forfeiture of Rs.56,793,345j- on

the 2nd respondent and it was mitigated to a sum of Rs.100,000 in terms of

Section 163 of the Customs Ordinance (P15). The orders referred to above were

made pursuant to an inquiry held by the said DDC in relation to the aforesaid

consignment for the importation of 270 MT Indian Yellow Maize by the 1st

petitioner company.

The 1 st petitioner was carrying a business of cultivation of Maize and Soya

Beans for distribution in the local market which is being used as animal food.

The 2nd petitioner is the manager of a clearing company by the name of Universal

Link (Pvt) Ltd whose services were retained by the 1 st petitioner to clear the

aforesaid consignment of goods through customs. Importation of those goods

was made pursuant to a license being obtained by the 1 st petitioner from the

Department of Animal Production and Health to import 1000 MT of animal feed

(Indian Maize). The said permit is filed with the petition and marked as P4 to P8

3

I

f I

II

ftI!

fj t II [

II ! II l

~ l f l i

~ f I

f

with the petition. Accordingly, it is seen that the 18t petitioner has obtained

permission for the concessions in respect of customs duty for the importation of

540 MT of Maize from the Department of Trade, Tariff and Investment. The

document issued for that purpose is marked as P9 filed with the petition.

Accordingly, the 18t petitioner imported its first consignment of 270 MT of Maize

and it arrived at the Port of Colombo on 02.08.2011. The 2nd petitioner's

services were obtained to clear the consignment. The necessary custom

declaration (CUSDEC) (P12 and P13) was tendered by the 2nd petitioner and

thereafter the other formalities at the customs were attended to. However, when

the consignment was sent to the Greyline yard of the customs for examination,

the 2nd petitioner was informed that an incorrect 'Harmonized System Code" (HS

Codes) has been entered in the CUSDEC. Thereafter, a custom inquiry had been

conducted and at the conclusion of that inquiry it was found that the two

petitioners have evaded the payment of customs duty and other levies payable

on the said consignment. Thereafter, forfeiture order referred to in paragraph 1

of this judgment had been imposed on the petitioners by the inquiring officer.

Consequently, the two petitioners filed this application stating that the

said decision of the DDC was not supported by evidence; and/ or the said

decision is based upon an unreasonable; and/or irrational evaluation of

evidence; and/ or that the DDC when he made the said decision has failed to

consider relevant matters; and/or considered irrelevant matters. Those grounds

upon which this application had been made are morefully described in

paragraph 35 of the petition. Therefore, it is necessary to consider whether the

4

III

\ I DDC exceeded authority (ultra vires) when making the impugned decision

contained in the document marked P15 for the reasoning referred to in the

aforesaid paragraph 35 of the petition.

When a consignment is received, an importer is required to submit a

customs declaration [CUSDEC] along with supporting documents, including the

import licenses where applicable. Thereafter such declaration is being examined

by the customs officials and in that process it is subjected to acceptance, face-

vet, keying in, numbering, appraising, satisfying and screening by the officials

prior to the delivery of the goods. However, food and other perishable items, in

order to ensure the expeditious processing of the CUSDEC when it comes to the

Express (Unit E) of the long room, CUSDECS are being appraised within a short

period of time probably on the basis that the importer has acted honestly and in

good faith, when furnishing all relevant information and supporting documents

tendered with the CUSDEC. In this instance too, it was the procedure that had

been adopted.

However, when it was reached at the Greyline of Sri Lanka Customs, it

was found that wrong clarification namely a wrong HS Code had been entered

when clearing the consignment. Thereafter, an inquiry was held by the DDC.

In the declaration submitted by the 2nd respondent, it was declared under

HS Code 1104.23 whereas it ought to have been declared under HS Code

1005.90. Import license issued in favour of the 1st respondent for the

importation of Yellow Maize (Corn) was also not tendered to the customs. Finally,

5

f i II

Il I

t

it was found that the HS Code that was mentioned in the CUSDEC tendered in

this instance is applicable to 'Maize othenvise worked( but not for Yellow Maize.

The National Imports Tariff Guide marked Pll shows the difference between the

HS Code 1005.10 applied to 'Maiz Seeds' and the HS Code 1104.23 applied to

'Maize othenvise worked'. Admittedly, the correct HS Code for the consignment

in dispute is HS Code 1104.23. Accordingly, the decision of the DDC for the

forfeiture had been made in terms of Section 47 of the Customs Ordinance.

In numerous occasions this Court and the Supreme Court has dealt with

the manner In which forfeiture under Section 47 of the Customs Ordinance

could be made.

In Toyota Lanka (Pvt) Ltd v. S.A.C.S.W.JayathUake and others,

S.C.Appeal 49/2008, S.C.Minutes of 20.03.2009, Chief Justice S.N.SUva PC

held as follows:

"Hence I am fortified in the view and hold that the provision in Section 47" but I such goods shall not agree with particulars in the bill of entry the same shall be forfeited. . ...... " apply to situation in which by means of wrongful entry goods are conveyed by stealth, to evade payment of customs duties or dues or contrary to prohibitions or restrictions. In such a situation of a wrongful entry and evasion, since the consequence of forfeiture is by operation of law, even if the officer had delivered the goods upon the submission of a CUSDEC, such goods may be seized at any subsequent stage in terms of Section 125".

In that judgment the concept of stealth was introduced by the Supreme Court.

Stealth is established when the consignee purposely evaded paying the custom

6

I

I

1

duty. If no such evation IS found no stealth IS established and therefore no

forfeiture is permitted.

In the case of Mireka Capital Land (Private Limited) v.

S.A.C.S.W.Jayathilake and 11 others, C.A.Writ Application 983/2007,

C.A.Minutes of 15.06.2010, Sriskantharajah, J held that :-

"The principle enumerated in the [Toyota] judgment is that the mandatory consequences of forfeiture that are penal in nature will arise in a situation of concealment and evasion to pay duties as distinct from a situation of misdescription and under payment of duties".

Underlying principle, pronounced in those decisions is to examine

whether there is clear evidence of the mental element in defrauding the revenue

by the consignee. 2nd petitioner being an experienced clearing agent, it is his

duty to declare true and accurate facts to the best of his knowledge. He is a

person with thorough knowledge as to the HS Code of Maize and Maize

subjected to a process. It is more so, since he has cleared a similar

consignment of Indian Yellow Maize imported by M IS Wayamba Traders

previously. CUSDEC number given to the said consignment by Wayamba

Traders is 96655.

At the inquiry held before the DDC, the 2nd petitioner has admitted that

Sri Lanka Customs on the previous occasion had informed him that the HS

Code for Indian Yellow Maize was HS Code 1005.90. Indeed, he has declared

accordingly in respect of that consignment by MIS Wayamba Traders. (page 8

in the document marked P15 filed with the petition). Hence, it is crystal clear

7

Il ,

! I ! If

that the 2nd petitioner was well aware even prior to submitting the CUSDEC

marked P12 that the correct HS Code for the consignment subjected to in this

case should have been HS 1005.90.

Therefore, the 2nd petitioner ought to have mentioned the correct HS Code

when clearing the consignment subjected to in this case. Under those

circumstances, it is clear that the 2nd petitioner was not acting in good faith

when clearing the consignment.

The petitioners have stated that the HS Code was mentioned only after it

was referred to the officials at the Customs Department. However, the 2nd

petitioner having experience of clearing a similar consignment should not have

acted on their opinion, when he had the firsthand knowledge of the HS Code

applicable to this particular consignment. Moreover, it is revealed at the inquiry

before the DDC that the 2nd petitioner was fully aware of the procedure to be

followed when seeking an opinion as to the HS Code from the "D" Branch of the

Customs Department. He, being an experience clearing agent, has not sought

an opinion from the "D" Branch, following the accepted procedure. Instead, for

the reasons best known to him, he has merely inquired it from a Deputy Director

of Customs without resorting to the formal procedure by making an application

having paid the prescribed fee for that purpose.

More importantly, it is necessary to note that the 2nd petitioner has

not produced the import license (P8) or the documents marked P5 & P6 to the

Customs along with the CUSDEC. Had it been produced at that point of time,

8

I

1l ! I i i i t

1 I

f I I i ! I I

the officials of the Customs would have come to know the correct HS Code

applicable to the goods that are permitted to import for a lesser duty. Even

though the possession of those documents was in the custody of the 1 st

petitioner, those have not been tendered when clearing the goods. Such a

conduct of the petitioners may lead to think that they have acted fraudulently

when tendering the CUSDEC to clear the goods.

The conduct of the petitioners referred to above show that they have

acted in a fraudulent manner at the time the CUSDEC was tendered. Hence, it

is clear that there is evidence of the mental element on the part of the petitioners

in defrauding the revenue of the Government. Therefore, it is my opinion that

there exists wrongful importation through stealth in this instance.

In the circumstances, I do not see that the decision of the Deputy

Director of Customs is unreasonable or irrational or it was made without

supporting evidence. Accordingly, I am not inclined to interfere with the

impugned decision of the Deputy Director of Customs.

For the aforesaid reasons, this application is dismissed without

costs.

Application dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

L. T.B.DEHIDENIYA,J

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

9

I I I I

J , i , 1 II f J ,

f

~

~ f I I !

j

I I l j