==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

IN THE MATTER OF AN APPLICATION TO REVISE THE ORDER OF THE HIGH COURT OF KALUTARA

REFUSING THE GRANT OF BAIL PENDING APPEAL IN

CASE NO. HC 384/2011 UNDER THE PROVISIONS OF THE CRIMINAL PROCEDURE ACT NO. 15 OF 1979.

C A (PHC) APPLICATION NO. 04/2014

H.C. KAlUTARA 384/2011

BEFORE A.W.A. SALAM, J.

Kaluperuma Kelum Dushmantha de Silva,

Moragalla,

Beruwala.

PETITIONER

(on behalf of his father)

Ratnasiri Silva Kaluperuma

(Presently incaserated / serving sentence)

Accused Appellant Petitioner

Vs.

The Hon. Attorney General

RESPONDENT

W.M.M. MALINI GUNARATNE, J.

-2-

Dr. Ranjit Fernando

FOR THE ACCUSED APPELLANT PETITIONER

Rajindra Jayaratne, SC

FOR THE RESPONDENT

Argued on 11th March 2014.

Decided on 26th May 2014

Malinie Gunaratne, J.

The Petitioner to this case, acting on behalf of his father (Accused -

Appellant) moves this Court to revise the Order made by the High Court

Judge, Kalutara, refusing to grant bail pending Appeal to this Court against

the sentence in that Court.

The Accused -Appellant had been indicted on three (03) counts

before the High Court of Kalutara, having committed Grave Sexual Abuse on

a male child of 18 years of age, on the 24th of July, 26th of July and 2ih of

July 2004, an offence punishable under Sec.365 (B) (2) B of the Penal Code

as amended by Act No. 22/1995 and 28/1998.

I

J I

-3-

At the trial, the Accused -Appellant tendered a plea of guilt in

respect of all three (03) counts and the learned High Court Judge convicted

him and sentenced seven (07) years Rigorous Imprisonment on each count

(to run concurrently) together with a fine of Rs.2,SOO/- and an order of

compensation in a sun of Rs.200,OOO/- on each count payable to the victim

with default terms in the event of non-payment. Against the said sentence

the Accused - Appellant had preferred an Appeal.

The Accused - Appellant applied for bail pending Appeal from the

High Court of Kalutara. The High Court Judge refused such application by his

Order dated 19.12.2013, on the grounds that there were no exceptional

circumstances.

The present application has been made on behalf of the Accused -

Appellant seeking to revise the Order of the Kalutara High Court Judge,

dated 19.12.2013, refusing the grant of bail pending appeal.

It is a settled principle that release on bail pending appeal to the

Court of Appeal will only be granted in exceptional circumstances.

In King vs. Keerala 48 N.L.R. 202, Wijewardana J. held, the Court of

Criminal Appeal does not grant applications for bail in the absence of

exceptional circumstances. In The Queen vs. B. Rupasingha Perera 62

N.L.R.238, Basnayake c.J. with Sansoni J. held, bail is not granted by the

Court of Appeal unless there are exceptional circumstances.

Weeramanthri J. held in, The Queen vs. Koranelis Silva 74 N.L.R. 113,

release on bail pending appeal to the Court of Criminal Appeal will only be

granted in exceptional circumstances.

I

-4-

Learned Counsel for Petitioner submitted that he was aware that bail

is not usually granted pending the hearing of an Appeal and that it is

granted only in exceptional circumstances. The circumstances relied on by

the Petitioner are set out in Paragraph 8 of the Petition and the relevant

matters which were placed before the High Court Judge at the hearing of

the application for bail pending appeal are set out in Paragraph 6 of the

Petition.

One of the questions that arose for determination was whether, in

an application for bail pending appeal, would the Court consider, no

previous convictions. It is not a matter that could be taken up and decided

by Court in the granting of bail. The view of this Court is, it is an insufficient

ground, for the granting of bail.

The second ground is that no record of ever having absconded or

warrant issued in the High Court or Magistrate Court. It was held in R.

Muthuretty vs. The Queen 54 N.L.R. 493, the improbability of the convicted

person not absconding would not be a relevant consideration in application

for bail pending appeal, though it could be relevant in an application for

bail pending trial.

As stated by Vaithiyalingam J. in Thamotharan Pillai vs. Attorney

General (Supra) S.c. 141/75 liThe main consideration of course is whether if

his appeal should fail the Accused - Appellant would appear in Court to

receive and serve his sentence. When the offence is grave and the

sentence is heavy the temptation to abscond in order to avoid serving the

I

-5-

sentence in the event of his appeal failing would of course be grave. In

such cases the Court would require the Accused - Appellant to show the

existence of exceptional circumstances to warrant the grant of bail pending

appeal

lJ

•

In this context, it is important to note, that this Accused - Appellant

has been sentenced to a period of seven years rigorous imprisonment on

each count. (21 years to run concurrently). In such cases where the

sentence is severe there is a likelihood of the temptation and the

propensity to abscond and flee from justice.

In the case of Ramu Thamotherampilai vs. A.G. (S.c. 141/75) the

Court followed the well recognized and uninterrupted practice of not

granting bail pending appeal to any convict sentenced to a term of

imprisonment of seven years or more and that this should be a norm to be

adhered to. Therefore, after conviction, bail would be granted only under

exceptional circumstances.

What are the considerations to be taken into account in determining

the question as to whether an accused who has been convicted before the

High Court, should or should not be released on bail pending his appeal

when exercising the discretion vested. As stated by Vaithiyalingam J. the

main consideration of course is whether if his Appeal should fail the

Appellant would appear in Court to receive and serve his sentence.

In addition to the above the Court also has to consider the nature of

the charges and the severity of the sentence, in granting bail, pending

appeal.

I I I I

-6-

At the hearing of this application and in the written submissions filed

in this Court, learned Counsel for the Petitioner submitted, that the learned

High Court Judge had failed to consider the suspended sentence imposed

by the learned High Court Judge of Kandy, on the accused for a similar

offence. Further submitted the Accused - Appellant would have presumed

justifiably that there would be no variance of disparity in sentencing

principles between two parallel High Courts.

It is relevant to note that against the said sentence the Accused -

Appellant had preferred an appeal. In Attorney General vs. Ediriweera,

S. C. Appeal No.100/200S, Shirani Thilakawardana J. held, IIln an

application for bail after conviction the Appellate Court should not pre-

empt the hearing of the substantive appeal and pronounced upon the

merits of the appeal. The merits of the conviction are therefore a

matter solely to be determined by the Appellate Court hearing the Appeal".

Therefore, the judicial disparity in sentencing cannot be regarded as

exceptional circumstances to warrant the granting of bail.

In M. Salahadeen vs. Attorney General 77 N.L.R. 262,

Samarawickrama J. held, the release of a prisoner on bail pending appeal to

the Court of Criminal Appeal will only be granted in exceptional

circumstances.

From a consideration of the decisions referred to above and the legal

provisions as a general principle there is no doubt that exceptional

circumstances must be established by an Appellant if the discretion vested

in a High Court to grant him bail.

I

1

-7-

A perusal of the decided cases would appear to indicate that the

requirement of exceptional circumstances has been strictly insisted on and

in my view no sufficient case of exceptional circumstances as understood

by this Court has been made out.

The learned High Court Judge was of the view that the Petitioner had

not shown any exceptional circumstances to grant bail. I do not see any

reason to vary the Order of refusing bail, made by the High Court Judge of

Kalutara.

Accordingly, I dismiss the revision application.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

I agree

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Il

,

J!