==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. NO. 82/ 2008

H.C. GALLE CASE NO. 2606/05

BEFORE ANIL GOONERATNE .J

P.R. WALGAMA. J

DANGALA PATHIRAGE SUNIL

ALIAS MAHATUN

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

VS

THE HON. ATIORNEY GENERAL

COMPLAINANT- RESPONDENT

COUNSEL : MS: INDIKA MALLAWARATCHI for the Accused- Appellant

MR: SHANVINDRA FERNANDO ASG for the Attorney General

ARGUED : 15.10.2014

WRITIEN SUBMISSIONS : 31.10.2014

JUDGMENT : 02.12.2014

P.R. WALGAMA. J.

The instant appeal lies against the judgment of Learned High Court Judge Galle dated

01.07.2008 by which judgment the trial judge has found the Accused- Appellant (herein

after sometimes called and referred to as the Accused) guilty of the charge of murder of

Gunadasa and was sentenced to death. Being aggrieved by the above sentence the

accused had appealed to this court to have the said conviction and sentence set aside on

the grounds averred in the petition which are stated herein below.

1

..

~., . . " ~

Prior to dealing with the grounds of appeal I wish state the evidence unraveled by the

prosecution in the course of the trial. The testimony of the witness Kularatne was that

on the fateful day he had accompanied the deceased who was going to consume liquor,

and while they were returning home near Karunasena's boutique the accused had dealt a

blow on the deceased head with a club like a bat. Thereafter the deceased had fallen on

the ground and at the same moment the witness had gone to inform the wife of the

deceased about the incident. Thereupon the deceased was taken to Karapitiya hospital. The

witness has also stated that on previous day before the incident there had been a

quarrel between the deceased and accused and had assaulted each other. It is salient to

note that the alleged club purported have used to assault the deceased has got

destroyed as the premises of the production room was submerged for tsunami. Therefore

the above witness did not have the opportunity in identifying the purported club which

was used by the accused to attack the deceased.

The wife of the deceased Nandawathi in her testimony to court had testified thus; that on

the day of this incident at or about 7- 7.30 at night the deceased had asked for Rs.30/

from the witness and had proceeded to have liquor. Few minutes later the witness who

accompanied the deceased had conveyed the news to the wife of the deceased that the

deceased was attacked by the accused. She had gone to the place where the deceased

was attacked and there she saw the deceased lying fallen near Kalu Aiya's boutique. Further

it was her version that there was a enmity between the accused and the deceased,

which probably had led to this incident. Therefore it is abundantly clear that there has

been a intelleble motive for the alleged murder and the prosecution had proved the element

of mens rea and actus reus on the part of the accused and had established the charge

against accused beyond reasonable doubt.

In the course of the cross examination certain allegations were made against the witness

Kuralratne and was suggested it was the said witness Kularatne who was responsible for

the alleged murder. In that many suggestions were made to the witness that in order to

establish the culpability of the witness Kulatilleke with an unsuccessful attempt.

It was contended by the counsel for the defence that the evidence of the witness

Kulatilleke and the medical observation of the JMO is not compatible and therefore the

evidence adduced by the said witness for the simple reason that the witness had seen

2

•

only once that the deceased being assaulted with the club. But it is salient to note that

soon after the deceased was attacked the said witness had left the place to inform the

wife of the deceased about the said attacked. More fully it is to be noted that certain

injuries appeared due to the main injury received by the deceased on the head. The JMO

had described the injuries in detail and had confirmed that the head injury inflicted by a

blunt weapon was fatal and cause of death was due to excessive bleeding of the brain.

Therefore it is abundantly clear the cause of death that was identified by the JMO has

fortified the version of the witness who accompanied the deceased and who was there

at the time the alleged assault took place.

In considering the evidence regarding in the process of the investigation there were no

doubts or shortcomings in the same and same was not assailed by the defence. Therefore

the court is compelled to the accept that the above duty was duly performed, by the

officers who investigated the alleged crime.

In the instant matter the accused had made a dock statement and the Learned Trial

Judge has had extensively dealt with the above statement with the decided case law and

in fact had stated that such dock statement should be taken in to consideration subject to

the infirmities as the said statements are not made under oath and they are not subject

to cross examination. The said proposition was observed in the case of SOMASIRI .VS.

ATIORNEY GENERAL-1982(2) SLR- 225.

More fully the Learned Trial Judge has extensively dealt with the dock statement made by

the accused and the legal effect of such statement and was of the view that the

statement made by the accused lacks probative value and the said statement from the

dock is not capable of challenging and create a doubt in the version of the witnesses

for the prosecution. Therefore it is abundantly clear that the prosecution has proved its

case beyond reasonable doubt which stands unassailable and unscathed.

It is to be noted that the Defendant has made a dock statement to the effect that he

was not at scene and had taken the defence of alibi which was defeated by the cogent

and overwhelming evidence of the witnesses for the prosecution. In the above setting the

Learned Trial Judge has very correctly rejected the dock statement of the Accused.

3

It is also to be noted that the prosecution has established the motive for the alleged

assault on the deceased by the accused. The evidence has revealed that there was a

brawl between the two and the animosity has culminated to the assault. Therefore it is

apparent that the prosecution has successfully proved that the said act of assault was

dealt by none other than the accused.

In the above exposition of the facts and the law relating to legal concepts that revolve

around this scenario this court is compel to affirm the conviction and the sentence

thereto and dismiss the appeal.

Accordingly appeal is dismissed.

ANIL GOONERATNE .J

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

4

•