==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Y.M. Sene Banda,

Accused -Appellant

C.A. Appeal No. 83/2010

H.C. Kandy No. 193/2002

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General,

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

Respondent

SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J. &

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA, J.

Nimal Muthukumarana for the Accused-

Appellant.

Dilan Ratnayake S.S.C. for the Attorney

General.

08.07.2013.

1

..

2

Sisira J. de Abrew, J.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted for kidnapping and

raping a girl who was 16 years of age. He was, on the 1st count,

sentenced to a term of 2 years rigorous imprisonment and to pay a

fine of Rs. 2,500 I- carrying a default sentence of three months

imprisonment. On the 2nd count (charge of raping) he was sentenced

to a term of 15 years rigorous imprisonment, to pay a fine of Rs.

5,000 I- carrying a default sentence of six months imprisonment and

to pay a sum of Rs. 75,0001-to the victim in this case carrying a

default sentence of twelve months imprisonment. Being aggrieved by

the said convictions and the sentence, the accused-appellant has

appealed to this court.

According to the facts of this case, the accused-appellant met the

victim Kumari who was returning from school. When the accused-

appellant met the victim, he dragged the victim to nearby jungle and

raped. Soon after the incident of rape, she went and complained to

Anoma Puchi Kumari who was living in the neighbourhood of the

victim. On the same day the victim went to the police station with

3

her father and made a complaint. Medical evidence corroborates the

story of the prosecutrix. According to the doctor, there were several

contusions and abrasions on her body. At the time of the

examination, she was bleeding from the injury in the vagina. There

was a fresh tear in the hymen.

Learned Counsel for the accused-appellant submits that there is

sufficient evidence against the accused-appellant. He does not

challenge the conviction. He makes an application to implement the

sentence from the date of conviction and to give a direction that both

sentence should run concurrently.

The accused, in his dock statement, denied the incident. At the time

he made the dock statement, he was a 54 year old man. This was in

2009. According to the indictment the date of offence is 09.12.1997.

Therefore at the time that the accused committed the offence, he was

year a 42 year old man. The accused-appellant had raped a girl

below 16 years age. According to the evidence at the time of incident

she was a school going child.

When we consider these facts, we are unable to show any mercy to

the accused-appellant, we direct the prison authorities to implement

..

4

the sentence from the date of this judgment. However we make an

order that the 2 years rigorous imprisonment imposed on the 1st

count and 15 years rigorous imprisonment imposed on the 2nd

count should run concurrently.

We affirm the convictions and the sentence

appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

and dismiss the

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

jmds