==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 1696/2006 (Writ)

1. Vignan Educational Foundation (Pvt.) Ltd.

73/3B Makandana

Madapatha.

2. Hitihamilage Don Oshala lakmal Anil Herath

Director

1.

2.

Vignan Educational Foundation (Pvt.) ltd.

73/3B Makandana

Madapatha.

PETITIONERS

Vs.

Board of Investment of Sri lanka

level 125, West Tower

World Trade Centre

Echelon Square

Colombo 1.

Prof. lakshman R. Watawala

Chairman

Board of Investment of Sri lanka

level 125, West Tower

World Trade Centre

Echelon Square

Colombo 1.

RESPONDENTS

1

i. ; ,! I iI III!

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERATNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Deepali Wijesundera J.

Faiz Mustapha P.e. with T. Machado for Petitioners

Milinda Gunathilleke D.S.G for the Respondents

18.11.2013 & 17.03.2014

26.08.2014

2

This is an application for a Writ of Certiorari and Prohibition by the

Petitioner Company. The 2

nd Petitioner is a Director of the Company. According

to the Respondents in their submissions to this court and as urged in the

written submissions the subject matter of this application is based on a

contract. Petitioners have prayed for a Writ of Certiorari to quash the decision

suspending the 1st Petitioner Company from conducting lecture courses for

IMTU Medical Degree as in letter marked P21 dated 10.11.2006. (as per sub

para fa' of the prayer to the Petition) Prohibition is sought restraining the

Respondents from taking steps as per letter P21.

I ia i-

3

In the body of the petition it is stated that approval was sought by

the 1st Respondent to establish a vocational course for Information Technology

and para medicals and for twinning programmes for foreign universities. By

letter P2 approval was granted by the 1st Respondent, subject to conditions.

One such condition was that Petitioners cannot undertake lectures for medical

degree. Thereafter the Petitioner Company made an application to the Human

Rights Commission (P3), complaining about not being permitted to conduct

lecture courses for medical degree. The Commission held inquiries for several

days and 1st Respondent by P4 informed the Petitioners, that approval was

granted to conduct lecture courses (pre clinical) of a medical degree offered by

a foreign university. P 4 states subject to conditions that project to be located

outside the Western Province. In this regard the Human Rights Commission by

report P7, stated inter alia, to locate the project outside the Western Province

would be violative of article 12 of the Constitution. However by letter P8 the

1st Respondent granted approval and 1st Respondent and Petitioner entered

into an agreement P10 dated 18.7.2002. Emphasis is made to clause 10(2) of

P10. It is pleaded that the Petitioners spent a large sums of money to set up

the project expending of Rupees 25 million to construct a building.

{

I

4

Consequent to all above Petitioner Company published a notice

calling for application to follow a MSSS course (P11). However the Sri Lanka

Medical Council published in the Ceylon Observer on 23.9.2001 to the effect

that the Medical Council will not recognize the above degree course (P12).

Thereupon the IMTU University in Tanzania instituted a Writ Application (CA

955/2003) to quash such decision. The said application had been settled as in

document P13 & P14.

The 1st Petitioner Company published a further advertisement by P15

& P16 for posts of Lecturer for the above project. As described in documents

P17 & P18 Professor Carlo Fonseka, was invited to join the 1st Petitioner

Company and his views are contained in the document P18. In response

several students and Lecturers submitted applications (P19 & P20). The

Petitioner also states that in terms of the IMTU Rules lecture courses should

commence before 01.03.2007 (P20a). To the surprise and dismay of the

Petitioner Company they received by facsimile a letter of 10.11.2006 (P21). I

would for purpose of clarity incorporate the following paras 26, 27 & 28 of the

petition since the basis of filing this application and the grievance of the

Petitioner could be fathomed.

5

1. The Petitioner states that it received a letter from the 1st Respondent dated

15.11.2006 requesting the 1st Petitioner Company within 7 days to furnish

to the 1st Respondent the following documents.

(a) Approval from the University Grants Commission

(b) Approval from the Medical Council

(c) Approval from the Ministry of High Education.

(d) Affiliation agreement signed with the International Medical and

Technological University for medical degrees to be conferred.

(e) Approval from the Ministry of Health to undertake the lecture courses.

2. The 1st Petitioner Company states that in response to the aforementioned

letter the 1st Petitioner Company addressed a letter dated 16.11.2006

protesting and stating inter alia:

(a) That the 1st Respondent had requested the 1st Petitioner Company to

submit approvals from the University Grants Commission, Sri Lanka

Medical Council, Ministry of Higher Education and Ministry of Health to

the said project. However the 1st Respondent is well aware, prior to the

granting of approval of the said project the 1st Respondent had written

to the above mentioned institutions requesting their comments.

(b) As a reply to the 1st Respondent's letter dated 24.08.2001 to the UGC,

the Chairman of the UGC by his letter dated 29.01.2002 had stated that

the proposed project does not come within the purview of the

Universities Act.

I "

6

(c) As a settlement to an application field by IMTU Tanzania in the Court of

Appeal against the Sri Lanka Medical Council bearing case No. C.A

955/03 the SLMC has agreed not to state that it will not recognize the

pre-clinical courses conducted by IMTU conducted in Sri Lanka.

Therefore the question of approval or recognition by the SLMC does not

arise.

(d) As a reply to the BOI letter dated 20.11.2001 to the Ministry of Higher

Education, the Secretary of the Ministry of Higher Education by his letter

date 21.8.2001 has requested the 1st Respondent to consult the UGC

and SLMC.

(e) The Ministry of Health - Director Private Health Sector Development by

his letter dated 25.01.2002 addressed to the 1st Respondent has stated

that the project does not come within their purview.

It was further stated therein due to the aforementioned reasons that the

question of approval of the said project does not arise.

3. The petitioners state that the said decision contained in the said letter

(P21) dated 10.11.2006 suspending the 1st Petitioner Company from

conducting lecture courses is illegal null and void and of no force or avail in

law inasmuch as-

,

! 6. ! ..

7

(a) The said decision is ultra vires and totally without jurisdiction;

(b) The provision of the BOI law or the said agreement entered into between

the 1st Petitioner Company and the 1st Respondent do not empower the 1st

Respondent to make the said order of suspension.

(c) The Petitioners are not in breach of the terms of the said agreement which

do not in any event empower the respondents to make the said order of

suspension.

(d) The said decision is arbitrary, capricious and unreasonable;

(e) The 1st Petitioner Company had a legitimate expectation to conduct

lectures (Pre-clinical part) for medical degree to be offered by foreign

universities in terms of the agreement with the 1st Respondent;

(f) The said decision violates the principles of natural justice for the reason

that the petitioners views were not sought nor were they afforded an

opportunity of being heard prior to the suspension of lectures (Pre-clinical

part) for medical degree to be offered by foreign universities and in effect

altered the terms and conditions of the said agreement;

(g) The 1st respondent held out to the 1st Petitioner Company that it was

entitled, in terms of the Agreement (P10), to conduct lectures (Pre-clinical

part) for medical degree to be offered by foreign universities, and the 1st

Respondent is therefore stopped from canceling lectures (Pre-clinical part)

for medical degree to be offered by foreign universities;

(h) Offend the principles of proportionality inasmuch as-

I 'A i.,

I I

I

8

(i) The 1st Petitioner Company has expended large sums of money to

commence operations of the said project; and

(ii) The 1st Petitioner Company has selected lecturers and students to

conduct lecture courses (Pre-clinical part) for medical degree to be

offered by foreign universities and grave prejudice will be caused to

the students if they are unable to follow lectures after tendering

their applications to follow the said course and the lecturers will be

deprived of the opportunity of securing employment for the said

project.

(i) The said decision to suspend 'lectures (Pre-clinical part) for medical degree

to be offered by foreign universities" is vitiated by the failure to give

reasons by the respondents.

The learned Deputy Solicitor General on behalf of the Respondents

submitted mainly on the aspect that relationship between parties is based on a

contract and the subject matter is a contractual dispute, not subject to the writ

jurisdiction of this court. Petitioner, according to the Respondent is in breach

of their obligation as per the agreement P10. Further Petitioner also has an

alternate remedy to resort to the arbitration process to resolve any dispute

arriving from the agreement. It is pleaded that as per document R1, large sums

of money as reflected therein is due and owing to the 1st Respondent.

9

Respondent state that in terms of clause 9 of the agreement PI0,

Petitioner is obliged to maintain accounts and make it available. The 1st

Respondent by R2 called upon the Petitioner Company to submit accounts, but

failed to submit accounts and thereby failed to comply with clause 9 of PI0.

Several letters R3, R4 and R5 were sent by the 1st Respondent but there was

no compliance by the Petitioner. Accordingly due to continuous breaches of

the said agreement PI0 the Respondent issued R6. The 2nd Petitioner

responded by letter of 08.08.2005 and denied any breach of agreement and

sought time to make payment, until a legal dispute is resolved with the Sri

Lanka Medical Council (R7). In view of the continuous breaches by the

Petitioners, Respondent plead that as per Clause 11 of PI0, Respondent

entitled to withdraw all or part of the privileges, and as such P21 had been

dispatched to the Respondent, as entitled to suspend as in P21.

On perusing Agreement PI0 and the several correspondence

between parties it is evident that the basis of the grievance of the parties

concerned emanate from a contract. If parties choose to enter into an

agreement it is essential that each party attempts to fulfill each others'

obligations. Respondents have urged in their pleadings the several items of

breach of contract, to hold the Petitioner liable. Therefore there is justification

I

10

on the part of the Respondents to issue document P21. It is apparent the initial

clause in PI0 namely clause (1) gives the basic guidance, together with the

condition referred to in document P2. Attention of this court has been drawn

to clauses I, 2, 9, 3(a), 4(c) & 11(1) of PI0. The material placed before court is

to the effect that the above all important clauses referred to above had been

breached by the Petitioner. The explanation offered by the Petitioners are

more or less evasive answers to same. Documents R2, R3, R4, RS & R8 support

the position of the Respondent. All this is in violation of clause 8 & 9 of

agreement PI0.

There are several violations demonstrated by the Respondent party

for which the Petitioner is responsible. It appears that the Petitioner has

violated all relevant and important conditions of the agreement. However the

law would not in any event favour the Petitioner in Writ Applications not only

on the basis of violation but as the writ jurisdiction cannot be extended in the

way pleaded by the Petitioner to the case in hand. The rights sought to be

enforced are rights that arise from the agreement between parties and no writ

would lie.

I 11

This principle was clearly articulated in vehicles Lanka (Pvt.) Ltd. Vs.

The Board of Investments CA Writ 945/2006 decided on 27.6.2006. In that

judgment the following authorities were incorporated, which is very relevant

to the case in hand.

Clive Lewis on Judicial Remedies in Public Law

"The Courts have drawn a distinction between rights derived from contract rights which can

be classed as private law rights, and rights derived from public law. By 'Public Law' rights,

the Courts generally mean the ability to invoke the supervisory.

In Jayaweera V. Wijeratne 1985 (2) SLR 413 ...

"Where the relationship between eh parties is purely contractual and one of a commercial

nature neither certiorari or mandamus will lie to remedy grievances arising from an alleged

breach of Contract or failure to observe the principles of natural justice even if one of the

parties is a public authority".

The Petitioners are not without a remedy. If the Petitioners so desire

could resort to the Arbitration process (Clause 18 of P10). In this regard Clause

20 may also be relevant. Agreement P10 contemplates of other methods to

ease the burden of parties to the agreement. Availability of alternative

remedies would deprive the Petitioner for relief by way of a Writ Application.

, ! ,

~ I I

~ II[ II

f I! If i: ,

1 I I

12

In all the above circumstances this court is reluctant to extend the

writ jurisdiction in view of the above. As such we refuse to grant the relief

prayed for in the prayer to the petition. Application dismissed without costs.

Application dismissed.

I agree.

~ <lb{~d

JUDGE OF THjOURT OF APPEAL

Deepali Wijesundera J.

J II

f f III