==== BLOCKS ==== 

203/99(f)

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Nuwara Eliya Bankers,

No.33, Lawson Street,

Nuwaraeliya.

Defendant-Appellant

C.A.Case No:- 203/99(F)

D.C.Nuwaraeliya Case No:-629/M

V.

Before:- H.N.J.Perera, J.

R.M.Punchi Banda,

Aluthwatta, Haggala.

Plaintiff-Respondent

Counsel:-Athula Perera with Chathurani De Silva for the Defendant

Appellant

Sandamal Rajapakshe with Chitrananda Liyanage for the

PI a i nt iff-Res po nd e nt

Argued On:-28.03.2014

Written Submissions:-05.05.2014/11.06.2014

Decided On:-18.05.2015

H.N.J.Perera, J.

The plaintiff-respondent instituted action in the District Court of

Nuwaraeliya against the defendant-appellant to recover the

jewellery pawned or Rs 8000/- and costs.

The defendant-appellant filed answer denying the averments in the

plaint and amongst the other matters, specifically stated that

Nuwara Eliya Bankers is not a legal person and that real parties are

not made parties to this action and sought a dismissal of the

plaintiff's action.

The plaintiff-respondent in his plaint alleged that on 06.08.1989 he

has pawned certain gold jewelleries (a chain and a Panchaudaya)

with the defendant-appellant and obtained Rs.2000/-and when he

wanted to settle the said sum in October 1989 he had been informed

by the defendant-appellant that some other party has settled the

money and had obtained the jewellery from the defendant-

appellant.

The plaintiff-respondent further pleaded that he has spent Rs 8000/-

to purchase the said jewellery and though demanded the defendant-

appellant was unable to pay the said sum and or hand over the

jewellery to the plaintiff-respondent. The plaintiff-respondent

instituted the present action to recover Rs.8000/-from the

defendant-appellant.

After trial the learned District Judge delivered judgment on

12.02.1999 granting the reliefs as prayed for by the plaintiff-

respondent. Aggrieved by the said judgment of the learned District

Judge the defendant-appellant had preferred this appeal to this

court.

At the appeal the Counsel for the defendant-appellant has confined

his submissions to two main issues in this case. Firstly whether the

Nuwera Eliya Bankers is a legal person? And secondly if not can the

plaintiff-respondent have and maintain this action against the

defendant-appellant?

The defendant-appellant at the trial had produced the document

marked Vi, the Business Registration Certificate issued under the

Business Names Ordinance. It is evident that the Nuwara Eliya

Bankers is a partnership and Rengasamy Govindan Moorthi and

Weereappan Athimulam are the partners of the said business. The

present action has been filed against the Nuwara Eliya Bankers and

not against them. There is no dispute between the parties that

Nuwara Eliya Bankers is not a legal or juristic person. It was the

contention of the Counsel for the defendant-appellant that the

conclusion of the learned District Judge that, a business is a legal

person is not correct and not according to law.

It is further submitted on behalf of the defendant-appellant that if

the plaintiff-respondent is seeking to sue the defendant, the plaintiff-

respondent should name the partners of the Nuwara Eliya Bankers as

defendant-respondents in the present case. On an examination of

the evidence led in this case it is apparent that the defendant-

appellant Bank comprised of two partners.

Weeramantry on Contract Vol.(Ol) page 542-

"Partnerships are not juristic persons and are not recognised by our

law as separate entities. It follows that partnership cannot hold

property in the partnership name nor can they sue or be sued in the

partnership name. The partnership is no more than a collection of

separate individuals and these separate individuals would be the

owners of the property of the partnership. Theses separate

individuals must be the plaintiffs or the defendants in any action by

or against the partnership."

H.W.Thambiah, Q.c. in the Principles of Ceylon Law at page 546

states:-

"In England, in view of the statutory provisions as action can be

brought in the firms's name, but in Ceylon if a partnership has to be

sued, the action should be brought against all its members."

In the case of Suppiah V. Paliahpillai 14 N.L.R 392it was held that all

the partners of the firm should have joined in the action. This is so

because the plaintiff-respondent has no right to pick to sue from the

partnership.

In Oretra Enterprises & Others V. Wijekoon [2003] 3 Sri L.R 1, it was

held that:-

(l)Partnerships are not juristic persons and are not recognised by

our law as separate entities.

(2) .....

(3) ...... ln Sri Lanka if a partnership has to be sued, the action

should be brought against all its members.

In the present case the plaintiff-respondent has failed to make any

of the partners of the Nuwara Eliya Bankers parties to this action.

The plaintiff-respondent has instead filed the present action

against the Nuwara Eliya Bankers which is not a legal or juristic

person.

In the present case it is not disputed that the plaintiff-respondent

had pawned the jewellery to the defendant and when the

plaintiff-respondent endeavoured to redeem the said jewelleries

the defendant-appellant had refused to do so. The defendant-

appellant at the trial had produced the document marked VI, and

in view of the said document it is apparent that the said

defendant Bank comprised of two partners. The proxy tendered

by the defendant-appellant was signed by the very same partners

who's names have been mentioned in the document marked VI.

It cannot be said that the naming of the Nuwara Eliya Bankers as

the defendant has mislead the parties on the question of identity

of persons intended to be sued. However the persons legally liable

to compensate the plaintiff-respondent for the loss sustained by

him had not been named and proved. In the circumstances it is my

view in fairness to the plaintiff-respondent in this case I would set

aside the judgment of the learned District Judge and sent the case

back to the District Court for a trial de novo with the right to

amend the plaint if the plaintiff-respondent so desires. I make no

order as to costs.

Appeal allowed.

Case sent back for trial de novo with the right to amend the plaint.