==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No.214/2009 1.

2

Vappukutti Mohamed Nazeer

Raja Mohamed Mohomi Japarji H.C. Trincomalee Case No.HCT/191/2007

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

P.R. WALGAMA, J

ANIL GOONERATNE, J. &

P.R. WALGAMA, J.

3. Adam Labbei Rajudeen

4. Adam Bava Salman Faris

ACCUSED-APPELLANTS

VS

Hon. The Attorney General

COMPLAINANT -RESPONDENT

Nizam Kariapper with M.I.M. Iynullah for the 1st & 2nd Accused-Appellants.

Saliya Peiris for the 3rd & 4th Accused-Appellants.

A. Jinasena DSG for the Complainant-Respondent.

28.10.2014 & 04.11.2014

08.12.2014

The Accused- Appellants(: herein after sometimes called and referred to as the Accused)

had preferred in instant appeal against the conviction and the sentence of the Learned

High Court Judge of Trincomalee dated 16.12.2009, by which conviction the Accused were

sentenced to death. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and sentence the Accused had

appealed to this Court to have the said conviction and sentence set aside accordingly.

1

~e facts in appeal eJ.fe-albeit brief are as follows;

The all four Accused stood indicted for having committed murder of one Mohamed Nisam

5ahibu on 23.05.2002, at Kandy Road, Anuradhapura Junction in Trincomalee. It was the

testimony of the father of the Deceased on this fateful day at about 4.00 p.m one of the

suspect came to his house and inquired about the deceased and had proceeded. It is also

revealed that the deceased too had followed the van in which all these accused were

travelling. There upon the witness had gone out of his house to see what was happening

out side and observed a White colour van purported to have carried the accused. The said

witness was not aware of the registered number of the alleged vehicle. Another three

witnesses who had adduced evidence for the prosecution had only testified to the fact

that the Accused came in search of the Deceased but had not seen the alleged incident

that occurred at Kandy Road.

It is salient to note and the Counsels for the Accused had adverted court to the fact that

the van came in search of the deceased had a number plate where as the White van

that ran over the Deceased was without a number plate. So was the version of the

witnesses for the prosecution who testified in Court as to the death of the Deceased.

It is also the contention of the Defence that the eye witnesses to the said accident too

had stated that the van allegedly involved in the said accident did not carrying a number

plate whereas the van in which the accused were travelling had a registered number.

Therefore it is contended by the defence that there is a serious doubt as to the

identity of the accused and the van that involved in the alleged accident.

It is common ground that all the Accused went to the house of the deceased and it

was explained by the accused themselves. The unequivocal position of the Accused was that the

alleged accident had occurred due to the negligence driving of a driver who drove a van

without a number plate on it. Therefore in the light of the above contention and the

evidence that emerged do not convinced the culpability of the accused and this court will

be compelled to set aside the impugned judgment and the conviction imposed on these

accused.

The vital facts stemmed from the prosecution case is that these 4 accused came in a

white van to meet the deceased, and after sometime they had left the deceased place

2

\

,

thereupon the deceased too had followed them. There is not a single eye witness who can

speak as to who knocked the deceased down and who was driving the vehicle concerned

and more fully the deceased was knocked by which vehicle driven by whom. Hence the

above vital issues cannot be answered to the detriment of the accused. In fact it is

intensely relevant to note that there is no direct evidence to establish the guilt of the

accused. The only nexus between the accused and the alleged accident was the fact that

the accused visited the deceased.

The defence does not dispute the fact that the deceased died of a road accident. But

contend that the alleged accident was not due their fault. Even if the deceased had died

as 'a result of the road accident it is only the driver could be held responsible for the

alleged accident. Hence no culpability rests on the others who were travelling in the van.

In the instant matter the Learned High Court Judge has convicted and imposed a jail

term in respect of all the Accused, on the basis that all the accused had acted in

furtherance of a common intention to murder Mohamed Nisam Sahibu. As such all the

Accused were sentenced to death, punishable under section 296 of the Penal Code.

It also pertinent to note that the prosecution has not been able to established the charge

of murder as they do not reveal any murderous intention on the part of the Accused and

existence and the sharing of the common intention to commit murder of said Mohomed

Nisam Sahibu. In the result no intelligible motive has been proved by the prosecution.

Therefore it is ostensible that most vital ingredient has not been established by the

prosecution.

In the said back drop it is salient to note that the only evidence available in respect of

the alleged incident is the fact that one of the accused came in search the deceased to

his house. The fact that the accused came in search of the deceased is not suggestive of

the fact that all the accused are involved in a crime of this nature.

Hence the above circumstances do not establish the guilt of the accused. To buttress the

above position the counsel for the defence has adverted court to the weight of

circumstantial evidence in a criminal case and cited the case of Queen .vs.

M.G.Sumanasena- 66 NLR- 350. Which has observed thus,

3

I( in criminal cases suspicious circumstances do not establish guilt. Nor does the proof of

any number of suspicious circumstances relive the prosecution of its burden of proving

the case against the accused beyond reasonable doubt".

For the above compelling reasons this court is bound to arrive at the irresistible

conclusion that there was no proper basis and cogent evidence to convict the Accused-

Appellants for the charge of murder of Mohamed Nisam Sahibu.

Thus the Appeal is allowed. Conviction is set aside, Accused-Appellants are acquitted and

discharged accordingly.

ANIL GOONERATNE, J.

I agree.

4

.,P-~. AdCr~

JUDGE OF THE coUJfi OF APPEAL -

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL