==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 1281 I 2000 F

D.C. Ratnapura No. 712 I P

Dhamme Arachcilage Karunaratne, Dellabada, Karangoda.

And 05 others

Plaintiffs

Vs.

1. Kuruppu Mudiyanselage Podimenike, (Deceased) 1 a. Wij esundara Mudiyanselage Podibandara, Ayagama, Paragala.

And 3 7 others

Defendants

AND NOW BETWEEN

11. Mahadurage Nan dina alias N anda Palawela, 16. Demalaporuwa Manannalage Sopiya, 36. Mahadurage Triksine Jayasooriya, 3 7. Mahadurage Sarathchandra J ayasooriya, 38. Mahdurage Premachandra Jayasooriya,

Defendant Appellants Vs

Dhamme Arachcilage Karunaratne, Dellabada, Karangoda.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

2

And 05 others

Plaintiff Respondents

2. Kuruppu Mudiyanselage Podimenike, (Deceased) 1 a. Wij esundara Mudiyanselage Podibandara, Ayagama, Paragala.

And 34 others

Defendant Respondents

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

11th 16th 36th 3ih and 38th Defendant

Appellants are absent and unrepresented

A. Kodikara for the 3A and 24th Defendant

Respondents

05.12.2012

05.02.2013

The IA, 2, 3, 4 and 5 Plaintiff Respondents (hereinafter referred to as

the Respondents) instituted the said action against the 1st to 38th Defendant

Respondents (hereinafter referred to as the Respondents) in the District Court of

Ratnapura seeking to partition the land described in the schedule to the plaint.

After trial the learned District Judge delivered judgment to partition the land.

Being aggrieved by the said judgement dated 28.09.2000 the Appellants have

preferred the instant appeal to this court.

3

At the hearing of this appeal the learned Counsel for the Respondents

raising preliminary objections to this appeal submitted that the appeal of the

Appellants has not been signed by their Attorney on record.

I have carefully perused the notice of appeal and the petition of appeal

filed by the said Appellants. It appears from the said documents that the Notice of

Appeal has been signed by the 11th 36th 37th and 38th Defendant Appellants and the

Petition of Appeal has been signed by the 11th Defendant Appellant. The Attorney

on record of the said Appellants has not signed the said Notice of Appeal and the

Petition of Appeal.

The mam case record bears the fact that Mr. K.E.D. Dayananda

Attorney At Law has filed a proxy on behalf of the said Appellants. The said proxy

is still remaining in force. Therefore the said Notice of Appeal and the Petition of

Appeal should have been signed by said Attorney At Law of the Appellants. It is

well settled law that when the Registered Attorney at Law is alive and his proxy

remains on a record without being revoked, the Notice of Appeal and Petition of

Appeal must be signed by such Attorney and by no one else.

In the case of Fernando Vs Sybil Fernando and 2 others [1996] 2 SLR

169 (CA) held that "Section 24 of the Civil Procedure Code gives the freedom to a

party to make any appearance or application or appear in Court unless the law

authorized that he should be expressly represented by an Attorney-at-Law. But

once an Attorney-at-Law was duly appointed by the party concerned he foregoes

his rights to tender and sign the Notice of Appeal when the Registered Attorney at

Law is alive and his proxy remains on a record without being revoked."

•

4

Supreme Court in Fernando Vs Sybil Fernando and others [1997] 3

SLR 1 held that "A litigant has a statutory right to act for himself unless the law

provides otherwise (section 24 CPC). But so long as an instrument of the

appointment (proxy) under section 27(1) CPC of a registered Attorney-at-Law is in

force, a litigant who has executed such an instrument must act through his

registered attorney until all proceedings in the action are ended and judgment

satisfied so far as regards that litigant: while the proxy is in force, he cannot

himself perform any act in court relating to the proceedings of the action. When the

instrument (proxy) is filed, it shall be in force, unless revoked, or until the client or

registered attorney dies or become incapable to act or until all proceedings in the

action are ended and judgment satisfied so far as regards the client (section 27(2)

CPC). Where therefore there is an attorney on record, the notice and petition of

appeal must be signed by such attorney and by no one else; if it is signed by the

party himself or by some other attorney, it is not in conformity with the law and

must be rejected.

The provision in section 755(1) CPC, that every notice of appeal

"shall be signed by the appellant or his registered attorney" must be conferred with

reference to the content and other clauses of the Code. Where the notice of appeal

is signed by the appellant himself when he had a registered attorney on record, the

lapse is fatal and is not curable in terms of section 759(2) CPC."

In the said circumstances I dismiss the instant appeal of the

Appellants with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal