==== BLOCKS ==== 

' 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A.No.281/2006

H.C.Colombo 1674/04

BEFORE Sisira de Abrew J., Sunil Rajapakse J

Sinnatamby Wijayakumar

No. 70/35, Sarasavi Lane,

Castle Street, Borella

Accused-Appellant

Vs

Hon Attorney-General

Respondent-

COUNSEL Amila Palliyage for the Accused-Appellant

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON

Sunil Rajapakse J.,

Sarath Jayamanne, D.S.G, for the Attorney-General

28.01.2013

27.06.2013

The Appellant was indicted on the charge of possession of 6.44 grams of

heroin and thereby committed an office punishable under the' provisions of

Opium and Dangerous Drugs Ordinance, as amended by Act No. 13 of 1984.

2

After the trial learned High Court Judge found the Appellant guilty to the

charge and sentenced to a term of life imprisonment. This appeal is against this

conviction and sentence of life imprisonment imposed on the Appellant.

NARRATION OF PROSECUTION CASE

On 19.07.2005 at around 11.40 a.m, after receiving secret information

about a drug dealer, a police team led by I.P., Balachandra raided the squatters

house at Sarasavi Lane, Gothami Road, Borella. On seeing the police officers who

were approaching the accused attempted to flee away from his house.

Whereupon I.P. Balachandra and SI Rangajeeva apprehended him. A personal

search which has taken place in the presence of S.l. Rangajeeva, revealed that the

accused was in possession of 40 small packets of heroin. Thereafter the accused

Appellant and the seized articles were taken to the police station, where all these

articles were packeted, sealed ad labeled in the presence of the accused. The

samples were sent to the Government Analyst.

Whereupon a Report (..tQ:...) was received that the samples gave a positive

test of heroin.

DEFENCE CASE

The accused and two other witnesses gave evidence on behalf of the

defence. In his evidence he said that he was arrested on 22.04.1999 at his own

house . Further he admitted his presence at the scene but denied having a parcel

containing heroin in his possession. In his defence the Appellant's position was

that on the day in question when the police party led by lP Balachandra was

3

coming towards his house a person called Rasika ran away. Then the police

officers questioned him about Rasika. The Appellant has submitted that lP

Balachandra was inimical towards him and falsely implicated the Appellant in this

case. Further he submitted that he is a labourer and a drug addict.

In this case five witnesses were examined by the prosecution. State Counsel

appearing for the State contended that the prosecution established the case

against accused beyond reasonable doubt. Two key witnesses of this case lP

Balachandra and SI Rangajeeva's position was that when they were chasing after

an unknown person they saw the accused Appellant in a suspicious manner inside

his house. Then they searched him and he was found to be in possession of

heroin. Further the prosecution's contention is at that time accused Appellant

coming with a plastic bag in his right hand, and after search 40 packets of heroin

were found.

After analyzing the prosecution case and the evidence, the Court holds that

the prosecution witnesses are trustworthy witnesses. There is no vital

contradiction or omission or material discrepancy in the evidence of prosecution

witnesses. The official witnesses have fully supported the prosecution with regard

to arrest and recovery of heroin. According to lP Balachandra the accused was

arrested and searched by SI Rangajeeva and himself. After the search hereon

packets were recovered in the accused's possession. lP Balachandra's evidence

was corroborated by SI Rangajeeva. There is no material discrepancy so as to hold

that they were not reliable witnesses. Further Court holds that all the official

witnesses fully supported the prosecution with regard to the recovery of heroin

packets and taking samples and fixing seals on them. After considering the

4

evidence of prosecution I find all the witnesses corroborated the prosecution

story about the recovery of heroin from the accused Appellant's possession.

The accused Appellant contended that heroin was not recovered from the

Appellant's possession and was recovered from somewhere else. As they could

not trace the real culprit they chose to implicate the accused Appellant merely on

suspicion.

Further Court holds that the prosecution had successfully proved that the

heroin was in the exclusive possession of the accused Appellant. The learned trial

Judge having considered the accused's evidence correctly rejected· the story

narrated by the accused.

In this regard I would like to cite the following authorities.

Choo yake Chey vs Public Prosecutor (1992} 2 M.L.J632 (Law of Dangerous

Drugs by Daljitson Adel} page 182. lt was held "In order to found a conviction, the

prosecution must establish not only that the Appellant had knowledge of the

existence of the drugs but that he also had exclusive custody or control of them.

Further Sumanawathie vs Attorney Gneral- Appeal1998 2 SLR page 20

lt was held whether in the circumstances the accused should be held to have

been in possession of the substance, rather than mere control, court should

consider all the circumstances. The modes or events, by which the custody

commences and legal incident in which it is held."

In this case the accused Appellant has not raised a doubt in regard to his

knowledge of the presence of heroin packets in the plastic bag.

5

After analyzing the prosecution and defence evidence, the learned trial

Judge had correctly observed that the accused ad complete custody and control

over heroin packets. Therefore I see no compelling reason to disagree with the

conclusion reached by the learned trial Judge on this point.

Further the Appellant contended that the evidence of the defence

witnesses should have been accepted by the trial Judge. But after considering the

defence evidence this court holds that the learned trial Judge rightly not accepted

the defence evidence. I hold that the prosecution has established that 6.44 grams

of heroin recovered from the Appellant and sample were properly taken and sent

to the Government Analyst. I am of the view that the accused Appellant has not

succeeded in creating a reasonable doubt in the prosecution case

The court holds that the trial Judge has carefully and correctly evaluated

the evidence of prosecution and therefore there is no reason to interfere with the

learned trial Judge's findings. Therefore, we affirm the conviction and sentence

imposed by the learned trial Judge and dismiss the appeal.

Appeal is dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Sisira de Abrew J.,

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.