==== BLOCKS ==== 

,

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA.

CA 1162/99 (F)

D.C. Badulla L/469/93

01. Roslin Nona

02. B. Manamperi

03. D. Manamperi, "Chandrika Niwasa",

Meegahakiula.

04. Gunapala Rajapakshe, "Kumudu Niwasa",

J aguila, Haliela.

05. !mali Prabodha Manamperi, "Kumudu

Niwasa", Jagulla, Haliela. (appearing by her

next friend 4th Defendant)

Plaintiffs

Vs.

01. D.M. Sudumanika

02. T.M. Dawithsingho

Both of Town Gedara, Meegahakiula.

Defendants

And Between.

03. D.M. Sudumanika

04. T.M. Dawithsingho

Both of Town Gedara, Meegahakiula.

Defendant-Appellants.

06. Roslin Nona

07. B. Manamperi

08. D. Manamperi, "Chandrika Niwasa",

Meegahakiula.

09. Gunapala Rajapakshe, "Kumudu Niwasa",

J aguila, Haliela.

10. !mali Prabodha Manamperi, "Kumudu

Niwasa", Jagulla, Haliela. (appearing by her

next friend 4th Defendant)

Plaintiff-Respondents.

BEFORE : A W A SALAM,J COUNSEL : P. Abeykoon with Ms. Abeywickrama for the Defendant-Appellantand W. Dayaratne PC with Ms. Sakunthala for the Plaintiff-Respondent.

ARGUED ON : 11.07.2012

WRITIEN SUBMISSION TENDERED ON: 14th & 19th September 2012.

DECIDED ON : 17.01.2013.

AWASALAM,J

T

he facts relevant to this appeal briefly are that

the plaintiff-respondents (plaintiffs) instituted action against the 1st and 2nd defendant-appellants

seeking a declaration of title to the subject matter of

the action described in the 2nd schedule to the plaint

and ejectment of the defendants therefrom. In addition,·

the plaintiffs also sought damages at the rate of

/\

! II

1IIIl

·Rs.SOO/-per month until vacant possession of the

subject matter is handed over to them. The positions

maintained by the plaintiffs' was that by reason of the

blood relationship between Samarakoon (husband of the 1st defendant) and the father of the 1st plaintiff, the

former was permitted to occupy the premises as a

licensee and the defendants continue to occupy the same

in such capacity even after the demise of the said

Samarakoon. The 1st defendant admittedly is the widow of

Samarakoon who is the paternal uncle of the 1st plaintiff. The 2nd defendant is the son-in-law of the 1st

defendant.

There was no dispute to the relationship between the parties as averred by the plaintiffs. In regard to the

:~::ut:h:;n:: ~:i p a ::ll;:;laan\::t::::~:n t :it ;ea i::a i:::

premises in question and hence the plaintiffs are not entitled to the declaration sought by them. The prescriptive claim made by the 1st defendant and the 2nd

defendant materially differ from each other as to the

basis of the claim, commencement of the prescriptive

period and the length of prescription. The 1st defendant

claimed prescription by reason of having possessed the

property over a period of 35 years and the 2nd defendant

claimed prescription independent of the 1st defendant.

The prescriptive claim of the 2nd defendant as presented at the trial extended to a period of around 10 years.

On a clear chain of title the plaintiffs established their title to the property in question and the learned district judge held inter alia that the plaintiffs are

the owners of the subject matter and the defendants were

unsuccessful in establishing their alleged prescriptive title. This appeal has been preferred by the defendants

ll it

f

c

challenging the propriety of the said findings,

judgement and decree entered by the learned district

judge.

Rosalin Nona, the 1st plaintiff is a daughter of the original owner of the land described in schedule 2 of

the plaint. In arriving at the conclusion favourable to

the plaintiffs' the learned district judge attached much

importance to document marked as P4. The document marked

P4 is a written undertaking given by the 1st defendant

in the presence of the Assistant Government Agent of

Meegahakiwula. The undertaking given in P4 was to the effect that the 1st defendant on or before 30.07.1990 i.e

within a period of five years from the date of the

execution of P4, would hand over vacant possession of

the subject matter to Rosalin Nona and her children. In

P4 the 1st defendant has unequivocally admitted the title of the plaintiffs. The learned district judge has

accepted P4 as a document duly signed by the 1st

defendant in the presence of the Assistant Government

Agent. The 1st defendant did not seriously dispute the

contents of P4. The contents of P4 negate any possibility of the 1st defendant prescribing to the

subject matter of the action unless she commences

adverse possession by resorting to an overt act for a

period of 10 years from 30.07.19990.

As regards the circumstances which led to the signing of

P4, the Assistant Government Agent has testified in detail. He appears to be an independent witness and the

evidence led through him is undoubtedly impartial and

remained uncontradicted until the conclusion of the trial. The learned district judge cannot be faulted for

placing reliance on the evidence of the Assistant

Government Agent. P4 in fact sheds enough light as to

i

II

'II!IIi

~ III I'II

c

the mode of possession and the nature of possession of

the subject matter by the 1st defendant.

The document marked P5 is a letter of demand addressed

to both defendants and sent through an attorney-at-law

by registered post demanding that the premises in

question be handed over to the plaintiffs as per

agreement P4. This important letter has not been replied to by the defendants. The failure of the defendants to

reply to such an important letter clearly shows that the position taken up by the plaintiff as regards the nature

of the defendants' possession of the subject matter is

more probable than the prescriptive claim of the set up

by the defendants.

Several important principles touching upon the law of prescription have been succinctly laid down in the

celebrated judgment in Corea Vs Iseris Appuhamy 15 NLR

65. This judgment laid down the principle that a person

who enters into possession of a land in one capacity, is

presumed to continue in possession in the same capacity

and a co-owner's possession in law tantamount to the

possession of his other co-owners. It is not possible

for him to put an end to that possession by any secret intention in his mind unless there is proof of nothing

short of ouster or something equivalent to ouster.

In the case of Thilakaratna Vs Bastian 21 NLR 12 the

Court held inter alia that where possession of immovable

property originally is not adverse, and in the event of

a claim that it had later become adverse, the onus is on

him who asserts adverse possession to prove it. Then

proof should be offered not only of an intention on his part to possess adversely, but a manifestation of that intention to the true owner against whom he sets up his

possession.

c

Quite remarkably, the defendants in this case have not

offered any such proof as contemplated above. On the

contrary, on a perusal of the evidence led at the trial it is quite clear that the plaintiffs have adduced

overwhelming evidence pointing to the defendants'

possession as being one of leave and licence under

Ratnayaka Mudianselage Punchibanda. The evidence relating to the leave and licence granted to them has

been accepted by the learned district judge after careful scrutiny. When the legal principle set out above is applied to the proved facts in this case, I do not

think it can be gainsaid that the possession of the

defndants' is referable to any lawful right. By reason

of their having commenced possession of the land in

question in this manner, it is incumbent to presume that the 1st and 2nct defendants had continued to possess the

property in the same capacity in which they took over

possession from Samarakoon.

No doubt prescription, as mode of acquisition of title

to immovable property is an illegality made legal due to

lethargy or inaction on the part of the title holder and

vigilance and alertness exercised by the person in

occupation of such immovable property. In this respect, it is worthwhile to examine the judgement in the case of

Siyaneris Vs De Silva, 52 NLR 2 98 (Privy Council) where it was held that in an action for declaration of title

to property where the legal title is in the plaintiff

but the property is in the possession of the defendant,

the burden of proof is on the defendant. If a person

goes into possession of a land as an agent of another, prescription does not begin to run until he has made it

manifest, that he is holding adversely to his principal.

c

·Quite significantly, in this case the plaintiffs have

established their paper title and also the mode of entry

and the nature of the possession of the defendants as

averred in the plaint. The defendants have not made it

manifest that they had commenced their possession of the

property holding adversely to the plaintiffs' from a particular point of time.

In the case of Kiriamma Vs Podibanda, the judgement of

which was published in 2005 BLR at 09 (Supreme Court)

held as follows:

"Onus probendi or the burden of proving possession is on the party claiming prescriptive possession.

Importantly, prescription is a question of fact.

Physical possession is a factum probandum.

Considerable circumspection is necessary to

recognize prescriptive title as undoubtedly it

deprives the ownership of the party having paper title. Title by prescription is an act of illegality made legal due to the other party not

taking action. It is to be reiterated that in Sri

Lanka prescriptive title is required to be by a title adverse to and independent to that of a

claimant or Plaintiff' . "When a party invokes the

Provisions of section 3 of the Prescriptive

Ordinance in order to defeat the ownership of an

adverse claimant to immovable property the burden

of proof rests fairly on him to establish a starting point for his or her acquisition of prescriptive rights".

It is equally important to make a brief reference to the salient points in the judgement of Rasiah Vs Somapala

(Court of Appeal) published in 2008 BLR at page 226

which reads as follows ..

I I !

"Where a party invokes the provisions of section 3 of the Prescription Ordinance in

order to defeat the ownership of an adverse

claimant to immovable proper~y, the burden of proof rests squarely and fairly on him to establish a starting point for his or her acquisition of prescriptive rights."

"as regards the mode of proof of prescriptive

statements

possession, mere general

regarding of witnesses

possession are not evidence of the

uninterrupted and adverse possession

necessary to support a title by prescription. It is necessary that the

witnesses should speak to specific facts

and the question of possession should be

decided thereupon by Court."

The close blood relationship between the original owner

and the husband of the 1st defendant was such which

required clear proof of adverse possession by the

defendants. The learned district judge in this respect

has quite rightly exercised greater care before he rejected the version of the defendants.

Undoubtedly, in this case the evidence to establish prescription was slender, despite the length of

possession. Although the 1st defendant has had possession

of the corpus for an uninterrupted period of more than

35 years, such possession, when examined in the light of

the circumstances peculiar to this case, cannot be

considered as adverse possession. The learned trial

judge has applied the law according to the well-

established principles prescription. In such a

and norms applicable to situation the Appellate Court

cannot interfere with such a decision which points to

the absence of any miscarriage of Justice. The learned district judge has had distinct privilege to hear the parties and their witnesses on the disputed question. In

such a situation where the credibility of the evidence

placed by the parties concerned played an important role in the decision-making process of the learned district

judge, an Appellate Court should be slow to disturb the

finding of facts by the trial judge who had the benefit

of observing the witness.

Let me now refer to the judgment in Siyaneris Vs De

Silva, 52 NLR 2 98 (Privy Council) in which it was held

that in an action for declaration of title to property

where the legal title is in the plaintiff but the

property is in the possession of the defendant, the

burden of proof is on the defendant. If a person goes

into possession of a land as an agent of another,

prescription does not begin to run until he has made it

manifest, that' he is holding adversely to his

principal.

For the reasons stated above, I am not inclined to disturb the findings of the learned district judge.

Accordingly, the appeal is dismissed without costs.

~-Judge of the Court of Appeal

NR/-.