==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA 843/98 F DC Kegalle 3410/L

Mohamad Azeez Sithy Nairne Wilpola, Aranayaka.

1st Substituted - Plaintiff-Respondent -Vs- Ginigamayalage Marathelis No: 321, Bazar Hotel, Dippitiya, Aranayake.

Defendant- Appellant

C.A. No: 843/98(F)

Before

Counsel

Argued & Decided on

K. T. Chitrasiri, J

D.C. Kegalle 3410/L

K. T. Chitrasiri, J

Upali Z. Gunawardena with Nimal Muthukumarana for the Defendant-Appellant.

M.S.A. Saheed with Purnika Hettiarachchi for the Plaintiff-Respondent.

26.02.2013

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the decision dated

25.09.1998 of the Learned District Judge of Kegalle. At the out set,

Mr. Upali Gunawardena brings to the notice of court that the

aforesaid decision dated 25.09.1998, is titled as "order and the

reasons for the order", by the Learned District Judge. He further

submits that the learned District Judge had failed to answer the

issues that were raised at the commencement of the trial.

Accordingly, learned Counsel submits that the decision that is

being challenged cannot be considered as a judgment in terms of

Section 187 of the Civil Procedure Code.

1

Section 187 of the Civil Procedure Code reads thus:

"The Judgement shall contain a concise statement of the case, the

points for determination, the decision thereon, and the reasons

fc hd . . « or sue ectszon .......... .

The said Section requires the Court to identify the points for

determination and to have clear answers to those points that need

determination. It is a sine quo non of a judgment.

Upon perusal of the impugned judgment, it is clear that the

learned District Judge has failed to answer the points for

determination that were suggested by the parties which had been

accepted by Court on the 20.10.1989. There are 11 points for

determination (issues). Learned Trial Judge has not given specific

answers to those issues. Therefore, it is my opinion that the

learned District Judge has failed to comply with Section 187 of the

Civil Procedure Code. In the circumstances, I set aside the

judgment dated 25.09.1998.

At this stage, it must be noted that the aforesaid decision of this

Court is made particularly due to the omission on the part of the

learned District Judge. Parties to an action should not be penalized

for such errors. Therefore, the District Judge who is sitting at the

District Court of Kegalle presently, is directed to . the possibility of

2

adopting the evidence that has already been recorded in this case

and thereafter to write the judgment, if the parties do not have any

objection to adopt the evidence.

However, if the learned District Judge is of the view that it is

desirable to have the evidence recorded afresh, he is at liberty to do

so without adopting the evidence already been recorded.

For the aforesaid reasons, this appeal is allowed without

costs. Learned District Judge is directed to hold a re-trial and to

take up this case expeditiously.

Appeal allowed without costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Na/-

3