==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A 192/2012 H.C. Monaragala 219/2008

H.M. Chulakumara Chandrawansa Magandanamulla, Monaragala.

Appellant

Vs. Hon Attorney General, Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

..

1

C.A 192/2012. H.C. Monaragala 219/2008.

Before H. N.J. Perera, J. & K.K. Wickramasinghe, J

Counsel Dr. Ranjith Fernando for the Accused-Appellant.

Argued & Decided on

H.N.J. Perera, J.

H.I. Peiris SSC for the State.

Accused-Appellant is present in court produced by the

Prison Authorities.

29.05.2015.

Counsel for the Accused-Appellant informs court that he will confine to

this appeal to the sentence imposed on the Accused -Appellant by the

learned High Court Judge. Counsel for the Accused Appellant also

submits to this court that the medical evidence led in this case does not

indicate that serious injuries had been caused to the victim of this case.

He also further submit that there had been some relationship between

the victim and the accused. Also moves this court to consider that the

accused is now 50 years of age and that he has no previous convictions.

Therefore he moves this court to consider these matters and reduce the

term of imprisonment imposed by the learned High Court Judge on the

accused - appellant and also to back date the sentence from the date of

conviction.

•

•

2

Learned Senior State Counsel leaves the sentence in the hands of

court.

After considering the fact and the circumstances and the

submissions made by the counsel, we substitute a term of seven years

Rigorous imprisonment on the accused -appellant. The fine Rs. 25,000/-

imposed by the learned High Court on the accused appellant should

stand but we substitute a term of six months in lieu of the fine and

further compensation which had been ordered to paid to the complaint

Rs. 100,000/- by the High Court Judge also should stand but we

substitute a term of one year Rigorous imprisonment in lieu of the said

compensation. Further acting under Section 359 of the Criminal

Procedure Code we direct that the said sentence implemented from the

date of conviction i.e 12.06.2012.

Subject to the variation of the sentence the appeal is dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

I agree.

K.K. Wickramaisnghe,

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

Vkg/-