==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No.388/99(F)

D.C. Colombo Case No. 11997/MR

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Appuhannadi Kotahewage Ariyapala

No.22, Bullers Lane

Colombo - 07

Derendant-Petitioner-Appellant

Vs.

People's Bank

75, Chittampalam A. Gardiner

Mawatha

Colombo 2

Plaintiff-Respondent

M.M.A. GAFFOOR J AND

JANAK DE SILVA J

V. Thevasenathipathy for the Defendant-

Petitioner-Appellan t

Rasika Dissanayake for the Plaintiff-Responden t -Responden t

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS TENDERED ON

ARGUED ON

10.11.2016 (Plaintiff-Respondent-Respondent) 17.01.2017 (Defendant-Petitioner-Appellant)

22.11.2017

1

J

,i"~IIIItI

J 1 I I . I I ! I I !

DECIDED ON 21.02.2018

M.M.A. GAFFOOR J

The plaintiff-respondent-respondent (hereinafter referred to

as the "plaintiff') filed plaint dated 12.03.1992 instituting an action

bearing No.11997 /MR in the District Court of Colombo. The relief prayed

was for recovery of a sum of Rs.561 ,682/ - together with the interest

thereon from the appellant. According to the appeal brief summons were

served on the defendant-petitioner-appellant (hereinafter referred to as the

"defendant") and when the case was taken up for trial on 27.08.1992 the

defendant was absent and unrepresented and therefore the case was fIxed

for ex-parte trial against the defendant. After the ex-parte decree was

entered the defendant made an application to purge his default under

Section 86(2) of the Civil Procedure Code. Subsequently, the plaintiff filed

the statement of objections against the defendant's application and thus

the matter was fIxed for inquiry. After the inquiry the Additional District

Judge dismissed the defendant's application by order dated 16.06.1999.

Being aggrieved by the said order the defendant has preferred an appeal

to this Court.

2

•

In this case the main issue to be decided evolves on the ex-

parte order of the learned District Judge in view of the fact that summons

to the defendant had not been served as argued by the said defendant.

Section 61 of the Civil Procedure Code states as follows:

61. When a summons is served by registered post, the advice of

delivery issued under the Inland Post Rules, and the

endorsement of service, if any, and where the summons is

served in any other manner, an affidavit of such service shall

be sufficient evidence of the service of the summons and of the

date of such service, and shall be admissible in evidence and

the statements contained therein shall be deemed to be correct

unless and until the contrary is proved.

At the inquiry only the defendant had given evidence, while

the plaintiff called the Fiscal/Summons server who is alleged to have

served summons on the defendant, who produced the affidavit marked

'P2'. It had been submitted by the plaintiff that the burden to purge default

is on the party who seeks to vacate the said order, the defendant in the

case in issue. Vide Section 102 of the Evidence Ordinance. In the case of

Fonseka v. Dharmawardena (1994) 3 SLR 49 the Court of Appeal has

held that:

"Summons will be served by the fiscal as an officer of court

and the discharge of his duty is evident by the report and the

3

1 1 I I

I I . I ! I I j

I, } I I

I ! I

I i

•

affidavit that should be furnished in terms of section 371 of

the Civil Procedure Code. In the circumstances, the

provisions of section 114(d) of the evidence Ordinance will

apply and the court may presume that the summons was duly

served. Hence in terms of section 102 the burden of proof

would lie on the defendant who asserts that there is no

service, because his application to set aside the decree will

fail, if no evidence is adduced by either party."

In the case of Ittepana v. Hemawathie 1981 (1) SLR 476 CA held inter

alia:

"Service of summons through the Fiscal personally is certainly

the better mode of service where by the Court could be satisfied

that summons/decree is served on the defendant."

Court further held that:

"The affidavit of the Fiscal could establish this fact and the

Court could then safely act on this evidence on an affidavit."

"It is incumbent on the respondent to lead evidence in order

to controvert and contradict the affidavit. The affidavit is

prima facie evidence of the fact that summons was duly

served."

In this case the defendant has failed to controvert the

evidence led by the plaintiff which shows that summons was duly

served on the defendant.

4

•

In view of the above facts and law we see no reason to interfere

with the order of the learned District Judge and we dismiss the appeal

I

with costs fIxed at Rs.25000/-.

i I JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL I ! ! i JANAK DE SILVA J

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

5

f

II

II!

II

1I; , f