==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRILANKA CA 875/98 (F) DC TANGALLE 2794/P

1.B. Jayalath Liyana Arachchige Somatilake No.159/2, Aarachchigedara, Getamanna North.

Defendant Appellant Petitioner Vs. 1. Ruwanpathiranage Ransinahami Getamanna.

Substituted Plaintiff Respondent 2. Hewathanthirige Jinadasa Karagaha, Koratuwa,Getamanna.

3rd Defendant-Respondent 1. Pragnawathie Kumasaru Getamanna North. 2. J.L.A Jayantha Nugegoda. 3. J.L.A.Karunasiri Getamanna North. 4. J.L.A.Kusumalatha Weeraketiya. 5. J.L.A.Piyaseeli Getamanna North 6. J.L.A.Shriyani Hakmana.

Respondents

,

CA 875/98 (F)

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED &

DECIDED ON:

1

DC TANGALLE2794/P

K.T. CHITRASIRI, J.

Nuwan Bopage for the 1A Defendant-Appellant.

C. Paranagama with W.R.Dilrukshi for the

Substituted 2A Defendant-Respondent.

Substituted-Plaintiff-Respondent IS absent and

unrepresented.

22.10.2013.

K.T. CHITRASIRI, J.

Su bsti tu ted -Plain tiff-Responden t namely Ru wan patiranage

Ransinahami is absent even though the notice dated 10.06.2013 has

been sent to her under registered cover informing her that this matter is

to be taken for argument today. In the same manner, another notice has

been sent by the Registrar to the Registered Attorney of the Substituted

Plaintiff-Respondent as well. However no appearance is made on behalf

of the Substituted Plaintiff-Respondent despite the said notice sent to the

Registered Attorney. Accordingly, this appeal is taken up for argument

in the absence of the Substituted-Plaintiff-Respondent.

II

,,

t

ff1I

2

Counsel for the appellant, referring to the impugned Judgment

dated 08.10.1998 which is at page 69 of the appeal brief, submits that

the learned District Judge has erroneously allocated shares to a person

naming that person as the 4 th defendant when no such 4 th defendant is

found in the original action. Accordingly, he submits that it is wrong to

have allocated 1/ 4 th share of the land to a person who is not a party to

the action and he, therefore moves that this Judgment be set-aside.

Counsel for the 2A Defendant-Respondent also accepts the position that

there is no defendant named as the 4 th defendant in this action filed in

the District Court of Tangalle.

I have perused the plaint dated 09.02.1987 filed in the District

Court of Tangalle. (page 42 of the appeal brief) In that plaint only three

defendants are found. The action had been proceeded on the said plaint

in which only three persons have been named as the defendants.

Therefore, it is clear that the learned District Judge has misdirected

himself when he, on his own, named a person as the 4 th defendant at the

time he wrote the judgment allocating 1/ 4 th share of the land to him

though he is not a party to this action.

However, it is seen that confusion has arisen as to the naming of

parties to the action since that other person, who was named as the 4th

defendant by the learned trial judge, has claimed rights to the land

sought to be partitioned before the Commissioner when the preliminary

survey was carried out.

t! f , !

\I

3

In the light of the above circumstances, both counsel agree to have

this matter referred back to the District Court of Tangalle to have a fresh

trial. Having considered the matters referred to above, the Judgment

dated 08.10.1998 is set-aside and the learned District Judge of Tanga1le

is directed to have a trial de novo upon issuing notices to all the parties

including the persons who have claimed rights before the surveyor.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Mmj-.

I

1! I

I t f i II i I ~ !! l i tr I

I

IIIII

J