==== BLOCKS ==== 

\

j I

I 1

f I

.. 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No 1322 /2000 F

D.C. Panadura No. 9311L

Gunetthi Dilman Nona, No. 428, Galpotta Road, Kiriberiya, Panadura.

Plaintiff

Vs.

1. Muthuwahendi Akmon Silva (deceased)

la.Muthuwahendi Rosalin Silva,

1 b.Deyaguge Somaratne Silva,

2. Muthuwahendi Punchi Nona Silva, 3. Muthuwahendi Matin Silva, (deceased)

3a.Labugamaralage Somawathie Peiris,

3b.Muthuwahendi Samanthi Silva,

3c.Muthuwahendi Rohana Silva,

3d.Muthuwahendi Kanthi Silva,

4. Muthuwahendi Adlin Silva alias Karunawathie Silva, by her legal Attorney Muthuwahendi Piyasena

Silva, all of No. 424A, Kiriberiya, Panadura, 5. Muthuwahendi Joslin Silva, No. 24411, Batalanda, Hirana, Panadura, 6. Muthuwahendi Moylin Silva alias Wayalat Nona,

If f [ I

I!

\I

I

t t i , 2 i

~ I Sea Beach Road, Angulana, ! I Moratuwa. i I 7. Muthuwahendi Roslin Nona, i I8. Muthuwahendi Caralein Silva, I both of Pettamukanda Janapadaya, t Haltota. lDefendants i lAnd Now Between

2. Muthuwahendi Punchi Nona Silva, 3. Muthuwahendi Matin Silva, (deceased) f

3a.Labugamaralage Somawathie Peiris,

3b.Muthuwahendi Samanthi Silva, !3c.Muthuwahendi Rohana Silva, I

3d.Muthuwahendi Kanthi Silva,

4. Muthuwahendi Adlin Silva alias Karunawathie Silva, by her legal

i Attorney Muthuwahendi Piyasena

fSilva, !all of No. 424A, Kiriberiya, Panadura, ! t 5. Muthuwahendi Joslin Silva, f No. 24411, Batalanda, Hirana,

I

Panadura, 6. Muthuwahendi Moylin Silva alias Wayalat Nona,

,

I

Defendant-Appellants

Vs

I

fI I Gunetthi Dilman Nona, II No. 428, Galpotta Road, I tI Kiriberiya, Panadura. I tI Plaintiff -Respondent i! I !

\ I

l f t I lI ~

\

j i I i I I 1

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

3

1. Muthuwahendi Akmon Silva (deceased)

1 a.Muthuwahendi Rosalin Silva,

1 b.Deyaguge Somaratne Silva,

7. Muthuwahendi Roslin Nona, 8. Muthuwahendi Caralein Silva, both ofPettamukanda Janapadaya, Haltota.

Defendant Respondents

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

Rasika Dissanayake for the 2nd to 6th Defendant Appellants.

Erusha Kalidasa for the Plaintiff Respondent

18.09.2013

21.11.2013

The Plaintiff Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the Respondent)

instituted the said action against the 1 st to 8th Defendants seeking a declaration of

title to the land described in the 2nd schedule to the plaint.

The 1 st to 6th Defendants filed answer denying the averments

contained in the plaint and praying for a dismissal of the Respondent's action.

I

r

I lIII

Jif Ii

}

rI

f!

t

tltlI

r

I

I

1 I

4

The case proceeded to trial upon 13 issues. After trial the learned

District Judge has delivered a judgment in favour of the Respondent. Being

aggrieved by the said judgment dated 12.12.2000 the 2nd to 6th Defendant

Appellants (hereinafter referred to as the Appellants) have preferred the instant

appeal to this court.

The Respondent's case was that she has acquired prescriptive title to

the land described in the 2nd schedule to the plaint. It is well settled law that in an

action for declaration of title the plaintiff must prove that he is the owner of the

land. A plaintiff cannot rely on the weaknesses of the Defendant's case without

proving his case.

In the present case the Respondent in her evidence has admitted that

the owner of the land in suit was one Jayanthie Karunarathne. She has further

stated that when she came in to occupation of the house situated in the said land in

1966 her mother in law, Adlin Silva, Careline Silva, Roslin Silva and her husband

were living in that house. She has further stated that the parents of her husband

with their family members have been in occupation of the said house as caretakers

of the said land under the previous owner Jayanthie Karunarathna. Even the

Respondent's witness Mahinda Jayasiri has testified that the respondent and the

Appellants were in occupation of the said house. Said evidence clearly shows that

the husband of the Respondent and his family members were in occupation of the

land in suit with leave and license of Jayanthie Karunaratne.

On the said evidence it is crystallised that the Respondent cannot

commence a prescriptive title against the Appellants unless she get rid of the

character of leave and licence. In this regard the Respondent in her evidence has

stated that said Mrs. Karunarathne, the owner of the land had promised her

I

I

\

f!I!It

5

husband's parents to give a plot of land. But prior to the fulfilment of said promise

parents of her husband had died. Thereafter said Mrs. Karunaratne had promised to

offer the said plot of land to her husband and prepared a survey plan. The

Respondent has produced a survey plan no. 33 marked P 1. She has further stated

that Lot No 4 depicted in P 1 was allocated to her and accordingly she was in

possession of the said Lot 4 since 1977.

Said Mrs Karunarathne in her evidence has stated that Baby Silva, the

father of the Respondent's husband was the watcher of her land called

Delgahawatta and he was in occupation of a hut situated at said Delgahawatta with

his family. When the said hut was destroyed they requested a piece of land to put

up a hut and thereafter they put up a new hut in lot 4 and all of them were in

occupation of the new hut.

It is apparent from the said evidence that the Respondent and her

husband with the other family members of Baby Silva were in possession of the

land in suit belonged to said Mrs. Karunaratne. Even the Respondent in her

evidence has admitted that they have constructed a house in the land in suit with a

hope that it would be given tb them by said Karunarathne. She further testified that

she made a request to the owners to transfer the said land to them.

In the light of the said evidence I am of the view that the Respondent

has failed to prove a title adverse to or independent of that of the Appellants.

Therefore the Respondent is not entitled to a judgment as prayed for in the plaint.

Hence I set aside the said judgment of the learned Additional District Judge dated

12.12.2000 and allow the appeal of the Appellants with costs.

Appeal allowed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

If

(

I

f , I

\

tIII

I

I,

I

fIf tI,

f f t ,