==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL

OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

W.Don Somaratne

No.73, Kesbewa Road, Boralesgamuwa.

Deceased 1st Defendant-Appellant

S.Srimathi Dias,

No.25, W.M.P.Jayawardena Mawatha, Bore1esgamuwa Substituted-l st Defendant-Appellant

C.A.No.25/94 (F) Vs. D.C.MT.LAVINIA CASE NO.399/SPL

BEFORE

COUNSEL

N . Thilakaratna No.4, Pragathi Mawatha, Boralesgamuwa Plaintiff-Respondent

2. W.Dona Ariyawathie 3A. K. Sompala Perera and others All of No.1 /16, Kesbewa Road, Bore1esgamuwa

Defendant-Respondents

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J

Gamini Marapane p.e.with Keerthi Sri Gunawardane, Navin Marapana and Harshula Seneviratne for the substituted 1 st Defendant-Appellant

1

I

\ III

!I

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON

DECIDED ON

CHITRASIRI, J.

Ms.J.R.Rajapakse for the Plaintiff-Respondent

18.11.2013

04th November 2013 by the substitutedl st Defendant- Appellant 04th November 2013 by the Plaintiff-Respondent

04.03.2014

In this appeal, the 1st defendant-appellant (hereinafter referred to

as the appellant) sought to set aside the judgment dated 9th February

1994, wherein the learned District Judge of Mt.Lavinia made order to

recall the Probate issued in the Testamentary Case bearing No.520 fT. In

that testamentary case, said Probate had been issued in the name of the

appellant and the effect of which is now been nullified pursuant to the

judgment which has been appealed against by having lodged this appeal.

The aforesaid Testamentary Case 520fT had been filed by the

appellant to prove a Last Will of the late G.Alice Perera who was the

mother of the parties to this action. (P16 - vide at page 295 in the appeal

brief) The said Last Will bears the No.24165 and it was executed by

Charles Boteju on the 18th February 1970. The Plaintiff-Respondent

(hereinafter referred to as the respondent) becoming aware of the

2

I

I

t i I I

t t ,,

\( I

[

I I!

l

II ! I

t r

issuance of the said Probate, filed this action in the District Court to

have the Probate issued to the appellant, recalled on the ground of fraud

practiced upoti Court, which relief was granted by the learned District

Judge. Being aggrieved by the said decision, the appellant preferred this

appeal.

Therefore, the issue in this appeal is to ascertain whether the

learned District Judge is correct in recalling the Probate issued in favour

of the appellant. In paragraph 8 of the plaint filed by the respondent,

she has averred several reasons upon which she alleges that fraud has

been committed by the appellant when obtaining probate. However, when

the issues were framed at the trial stage, the respondent has basically

raised the following matters (issue No.2) in order to establish fraud on

the part of the appellant.

./ Failure on the part of the 1St defendant-appellant to disclose the

pendency of the testamentary action bearing No.4 78 IT in the case

520/T filed by him though he was aware of filing Testamentary

action 478 IT prior to the filing of his action 520 IT;

./ Failure to serve summons on the plaintiff-respondent though she

was in Sri Lanka at all material times; and

./ Failure to make one of the daughters namely Siriyawathie of the

deceased Alice Perera, a party to the testamentary action 520 IT

and thereby failing to give her the notice of filing of the said

3

{I

! l i

~ ,

I

!III

testamentary action despite the fact that she is one of the

daughteJ:s of the late Alice Perera.

Learned District Judge accepted those allegations as correct and has

concluded that there had been fraud practiced upon the Court and made

order recalling the Probate issued in case 520 IT. Then the issue is to

ascertain whether the learned trial judge is correct when he decided that

those matters alleged by the 1st defendant-respondent would amount to

practicing fraud upon the Court.

It is settled law that a Probate can be recalled by filing a separate

action and also upon proving fraud practiced upon the Court. This

position in law had been upheld in cases including that of:

• Tissera v. Gunatillaka [13 NLR 261]

• Adoris v. Perera [17 NLR at 212]

• Gunasekara v. Gunasekera [41 NLR 351]

• Actalina Fonseka v. Dharshani Fonseka [1989 (2) SLR 95]

In the case of Adoris V. Perera, (supra) it was held:

((When an issue of probate has followed upon an order nisi (and

not upon an order absolute in the first instance), the summary

procedure for the recall of probate provided in Section 537

does not apply, and all parties are concluded by the issue of

probate. But where there is fraud in connection with the

obtaining of probate even upon an order nzSI, an

independent action might be brought to set aside the probate."

4

i !

~ I,t I f I I ! II

f i I

\ J , ,

\

l !

l

I I

! lI!

In this lt1stance, the appellant has filed a separate action to recall

the Probate and therefore it is clear that the appellant has observed the

law referred to in the decisions mentioned above when he filed this action

separately to the testamentary case in order to have the judgment in that

testamentary case 520 IT vacated.

In the case of Actalina Fonseka V. Dharshani Fonseka (supra)

Kulatunga J. quoting from Monir's "The Principles and Digest of the Law

of Evidence", has stated thus:

((Whether the decree is void and may be set aside would depend

on the totality of the evidence in the case and any such decision

would have to take into account the entirety of the rules

applicable in this sphere. The relevant principles have been fully

stated in Monir (14th Edition) pages 634 - 641.

The most salient principles are as follows:-

(a) In order to get rid of a former judgment it is not sufficient for a

person to prove constructive fraud, he must prove actual positive

fraud, a meditated and intentional contrivance to keep the

parties and the Court in ignorance of the real facts of the case

~ and the obtaining of that judgment by that contrivance.

(b) Fraud must be extraneous to the decree, it must be fraud

vitiating the proceedings in which the decree was passed. The

5

\ I,

II i I

~.

~ r I f I,I!

f I I I I,

J

~

f

\ , . II

f I ! i II

decree should have been obtained by fraud practiced upon the

Court.

(c) It must be a fraud that is extrinsic or collateral to everything that

has been adjudicated upon and not such as has been or must be

deemed to have been dealt with by the Court.

(d) It is not possible to show that the Court in the former suit was

mistaken, it may be shown that it was misled. In other words

where the Court has been intentionally misled by the fraud of a

party and a fraud has been committed upon the Court with the

intention to procure its judgment, it will vitiate its judgment.

(e) The decree cannot be set aside merely on the ground that it has

been procured by perjured evidence. It is not sufficient to allege

that the judgment was obtained by false evidence as the

judgment sought to be vacated must be taken to have decided

the question whether the testimony of any witness was true or

false and whether the document produced in evidence was

genuine or not.

Accordingly, I will now consider whether the learned District Judge

has evaluated the evidence in the manner as described by Kulatunga J in

Actalina Fonseka V. Dharshani Fonseka (supra) when he concluded that

the matters alleged by the plaintiff-respondent would amount to

committing fraud upon the Court. Hence, I have no option than to

consider the evidence in relation to those matters alleged by the plaintiff-

6

i

J

II I! [

respondent to ascertain whether those would constitute fraud practiced

upon the Court.

It was alleged that the appellant has failed to disclose the

pendency of the testamentary case 478jT, filed by the plaintiff-

respondent when he instituted the action 520 jT. Admittedly, the

testamentary case 478 jT had been filed in the year 1980 and the case

520 jT was filed in the year 1981. Case 520 jT had been filed a few

months after the institution of the action 478jT. However, the order to

make the publication of notice in order to give notice to the public as to

the filing of the action 478jT had been made only on the 29th November

1982. Therefore, it is clear that the date of pUblication of notice in 478jT

by which the notice to the public was given as to the filing of 478jT had

been made only on a date long after the institution of the action 520 jT.

Indeed, it is a date even after the conclusion of the case 520 jT, which

was in the month of February 1980.

Therefore, the appellant could not have known the fact of filing the

action 478 jT unless he was made a party to that action or by any other

means acceptable to Court. Significantly, the appellant was not made a

party in the case 478jT though he is a child of the late Alice Perera. (Vide

at page 272 in the original record). In support of this fact, the very first

petition filed in the said Case 478jT, had been marked in evidence as

P12. Furthermore, the appellant in his evidence has stated that the filing

7

j

I

of the action 478 IT was made known to him only after the respondent

told him about the action. (Vide proceedings at pages 163 & 164 in the

original record). Therefore, it is clear that there was no opportunity for

the appellant to become aware of filing the action 478 IT at the time he

filed the testamentary case 520 IT.

Those matters have not been looked at by the learned District

Judge. Had he considered the matters referred to above, he would have

realized that the appellant could not have become aware of a previous

testamentary action for him to mention the pendency of that action in

the testamentary case 520 IT which he filed subsequently. Therefore, it is

seen that the learned District Judge has misdirected himself when he

decided that the appellant has purposely concealed the pendency of the

case 478 IT in the District Court when filing the testamentary case

520/T.

The next issue is the failure to serve summons on the respondent

though she was in Sri Lanka at all material times and thereby failing to

give notice to the respondent of filing the action 520 IT. Clear evidence is

available to show that she was not in Sri Lanka during the period that

the summons was issued on her Power of Attorney holder. The officer

from the Immigration & Emigration Department has clearly stated that

the respondent was away from the country during the period

commencing from 26th July1979 up to 25th July 1982. The passport of

8

I ! I l I

,

l I

(

the respondent also was produced in evidence. Having perused the

entries made in the passport, the aforesaid witness from the Immigration

& Emigration Department has clearly stated that she was not in the

country during the said period. (vide proceedings at page 58 in the

appeal brief) Hence, it is incorrect to state that the respondent was

present in the country at all material times for the appellant to serve

notice Defendant- Appellant on her.

However, the respondent been a party to the action, the appellant

should have taken steps to give notice of filing the action 520 IT to the

respondent. According to the appellant, such notice was given to the

respondent by having served the notice to her Power of Attorney holder.

Serving summons to the power of attorney holder had been admitted if

not accepted by the respondent herself in paragraph 8(C) found in her

plaint. The aforesaid paragraph 8 (c) reads thus:

"8.(cg» oz®6J@C))OC ®@)@) o®u cg>~,a») Q)E) y,a) y,a)@) OO,a)l tl)®~@) O~

E)2))d ®@o qzc®~ qz(06) Q)@tl)0z ~D ®,a»)tl)S G»)o'( qztl) Q)E)a),

®tl)®d ®E)0)a) ~@) G»)o,(@) ~0)2))~~@ ®,a»)E),a) Q)E)a), ®o~E)) '(@)

Q®Q)~CJE) ~~Ooa) tl)O qztl) ~oz® 9tl))~C ~tl)®C~ sg(3)O)

~zlffi ~tl)cl ®,a»)E),a) Q)E)a), "

[vide at page 30 in the original record]

The respondent has not denied serving notices on her Power of

Attorney holder. Furthermore, the original of the Power of Attorney given

9

to K.Premasiri which bears the No.548 and dated 21.05.10980 also had

been marked Pll in evidence.

Accordingly, it is clear that the respondent has admitted that the

notice of filing action 520 IT was given to her Power of Attorney holder.

Such delivery of notice to the Power of Attorney holder amounts to giving

notice to the principal who is the respondent in this appeal. Therefore, it

is incorrect to state that no proper notice was given to the respondent as

to the institution of the testamentary case 520 IT.

The next issue IS the failure to gIVe notice of filing the action

520 IT, to one of the daughters namely Dona Siriyawathie of the

deceased Alice Perera, she being a daughter of the maker of the Will. It

is correct to state that the name Dona Siriyawathie is not found in the

caption to the petition filed in 520 IT in order to give notice of filing of the

same. However, an address is found in that caption without a name been

typed in front of the said address but in that same caption, there are six

other persons named as respondents instead of Dona Siriyawathie. The

reason as to why those names been cited in the caption is explained in

paragraph 6 found in the petition filed in the case 520 IT. In the said

paragraph 6, it is stated that the whereabouts of Siriyawathie Alwis is

not known and therefore her husband and the children have been named

as the 3rd to 8th respondents. The said paragraph 6 of the petition filed in

520 IT reads as follows:

10

\ !I!

(fzC ®E)~E)D (fzc®m &;o:n:u~~~ dE))@ goz~C) E)o!D o!D@~ (f@5d

QG) (fzc®m Q))~E)cd~)O t:'ozE)~ E)o!D (4) 8D (8) ~clE))

[vide page 297 in the original record]

Similarly, even in the affidavit filed with the petition in 520/T, the

name of Siriyawathie does not appear in the caption but her name has

been disclosed in paragraph 7 thereto as a daughter of the late Alice

Perera. Therefore, it is abundantly clear that there had been a valid

reason for the appellant not to make Siriyawathie a party to the

testamentary action 520 IT.

Those material facts have not been looked at by the learned

District Judge when he decided that Siriyawathie was not made a party

in the testamentary action 520 IT. Had he referred to those facts found

in the petition and in the affidavit filed in 520 IT, he would have realized

the reason as to why her name is not appearing in the caption in 520 IT.

11

I

I

I I t ! I

The matters referred to above in this judgment show that the

learned District Judge is incorrect to have decided that there had been

fraud practiced upon the Court. As discussed in the case of Actalina

Fonseka V Dharshani Fonseka, basically there shall have proof of actual

II

and positive fraud, a meditated and intentional contrivance to keep the

parties and the Court in ignorance of the real facts of the case and the

i I

obtaining of that judgment by that contrivance, if one needs to establish

practicing fraud upon Court, in order to have a judgment vacated. In this

instance, the circumstances alleged by the respondent do not even

indicate such a fraud committed by the appellant. Therefore, the plaint of

! the respondent should have been dismissed by the learned trial judge. II ! I In the circumstances, it is clear that the matters advanced by the I \

respondent to establish fraud, do not capable of establishing, committing

fraud by the appellant. Therefore, it is my considered view that the

learned District Judge has misdirected himself when he decided that

there had been fraud practiced upon Court for the reasons set out in

paragraph 8 in the plaint filed in this case.

For the aforesaid reasons, I set aside the judgment dated 9th

February 1994 of the learned District Judge of Mt. Lavinia and allow the

appeal of the appellant. The plaint of the plaintiff-respondent dated 3rd

12

July 1986 is to stand dismissed. Learned District Judge is directed to

enter decree accordingly.

I make no order as to the costs of this appeal.

Appeal allowed.

OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

13

t II If I1 IIII I j

\

f l

~ ! ! t

J Ir I

1 1 II