==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA PHC APN No: 105/13 H.C.Rev No. 797/2011 M.C.Case No. 62014

Miningala Sumanaratne, Koragahaliyadda,Maliduwa, Boossa.

1st Respondent-Petitioner- Petitioner-Petitioner Vs. Officer-in Charge Police Station Rathgama.

Complainant-Respondent – Respondent -Respondent Katukoliya Gamage Nandasena Maligaspe Koralage charlotte Both of Colombiawatte,Maliduwa,boossa.

2nd and 3rd Respondent- Respondent-Respondent- Respondents

,

CA (PHC) APN 105/2013

H.C. Galle Case No: Rev 797/2011

Before

Counsel

: A.W.A. Salam, J &

Sunil Rajapakshe, J.

:Ms. S. Serasinghe for the Respondent-Petitioner-Peti tioner-Petitioner.

Saliya Peiris with Lasitha Sachindra for hte Petitoner-Responden t -Responden t -Respondent.

Decided on : 16.09.2013.

A.W.A. Salam, J

Learned counsel for the petitioner heard in support of the

application for revision and interim order and the Learned counsel

for the Respondent heard in opposition.

The 1st Respondent-Petitioner-Petitioner has invoked the

revisonary jurisdiction of this court to revise the determination of

the learned Magistrate dated 10.06.2011 and the judgment of the

learned High Court judge dated 01.08.2013. The proceedings

relating to this revision application had begun under Section 66 of

the Primary Code Procedure Act with regard a dispute relating to

possession of immovable property. The learned Magistrate's

determination has been affirmed and the learned High Court judge

refused to vacate the determination directing that the

determination be given effect to without delay as the non

enforcement of the determination possibly may culminate in the

commission of a grave crime.

1

t

fff

\ 1 I I I I

~:.,~learned counsel for the respondent has raised a preliminary

objection and the issue presently revolves around as to whether

the petitioner is guilty of suppression or misrepresentation of facts.

According to the paragraph 2 of the petition the petitioner namely

Miningala Sumanaratne has become the owner of the subject

matter of the action by right of deed bearing No. 3209 dated

03.04.2003 attested by Ms. Hurly de Silva Notary Public of Galle.

The deed has been annexed to the petition marked as IDl.

According to ID 1 the owner of the subject matter is one

Kitulgodage Indrani and not the 1st Respondent-Petitioner-

Petitioner.

In the circumstances, we are of the opinion that there is a grave

misrepresentation which renders the petitioner guilty of not having

come to court with clean hands. As such we refuse to entertain the

revision application.

Revision application rejected.

:;;:~~ JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Sunil Rajapakshe, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

NRj-

2