==== BLOCKS ==== 

I !

1 I I

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA 150/2005 HC Galle 1371

Before

Counsel

Argued on Decided on

Ratnayake Liyanage Thilakatratne alias Soththi Mudalali

Accused appellant

Vs The Attorney General

Respondent

Sisira J de Abrew J (Acting PICA) & PWDC Jayathilake J

Rienzie Arasakularatne PC for the appellant. DPJ De Livera DSG for the Respondent.

12.12.2013 and 13.12.2013 13.2.2014

Sis ira J de Abrew J.

The accused appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of a man

named Madugata Kumarage J ayatissa and was sentenced to death. Being aggrieved

by the said conviction and the sentence he has appealed to this court. Facts of this

case may be briefly summarized as follows.

The deceased person at the time of the incident was a school boy. The

deceased person's family and the accused appellant were living in the same

neighbourhood. Mother of the deceased Sumanawathi says that five to six days

prior to the incident in this case, there was a brawl between two families due to a

land dispute. The incident where the deceased person sustained injuries took place

when the deceased person around 7.00 a.m. tried to board a bus to go to school.

The driver of the bus Palitha had seen the incident. Evidence of Palitha may be

1 I I

2

briefly summarized as follows. The accused appellant who was known to Palitha

boarded the bus driven by him two bus stops before the bus stop where the

deceased person tried to board the bus. When Palitha stopped the bus where the

incident took place three school children including the deceased person came

running to board the bus. At this stage the accused appellant who was standing on

the foot board attacked the deceased person who was attempting to board the bus.

Palitha says that he did not see the weapon used by the accused appellant. He saw

the attack on the deceased person by the accused appellant from the side mirror of

the bus. After the attack the deceased person who was bleeding from the nose and

the mouth came running in front of the bus and fell on the ground. Palitha shouted

to the conductor of the bus and addressed him in the following language. "Nondi

Mudalali (the accused appellant) attacked a child. The child is bleeding from the

nose and the mouth. Take him to the hospital soon." He got down from the bus and

saw the blood oozing from his mouth. He says that the child died on the spot. The

accused appellant ran away from the place of the incident. This was the summary

of the evidence of Palitha. Thilakarathne the brother of the deceased person, on

hearing that his brother had been stabbed, started running towards Happitigala

junction where the stabbing incident took place. But before reaching the said

junction he met the accused appellant who stabbed him. Then he grappled with the

accused appellant. At this stage one Amarajeewa, who was passing the place, tried

to stop the brawl and when he was unsuccessful in his attempts, he requested the

accused appellant to give him the knife. The accused appellant, who was still

grappling with Thilakarathne, said that he would give the knife. if it would not be

given to anybody. However Amarajeewa was able to get the knife from the

accused appellant. Later Amarajeewa gave the knife to the wife of the accused

appellant. This knife was identified by Amarajeewa at the trial.

The evidence in this case has been led before several judges. Learned PC

t 1 I

1 j

3

for the accused appellant submitted that the proceedings have not been adopted

when the succeeding Judge decided to proceed with the case. But when I go

through the case record it appears that the succeeding Judge had adopted the

proceedings.

Witness Palitha's position was that he saw the accused appellant attacking

the deceased person through the side mirror of the bus. Palitha was the driver of

the bus. He, in his statement made to the police and the evidence given at the

inquest, had not mentioned the fact that he saw the said incident from the side

mirror of the bus. This was marked as an omission by learned defence counsel.

Learned PC therefore contended that the evidence of Palitha cannot be believed. I

now advert to this contention. The omission was with regard to the witnessing of

the incident through the side mirror. It is not with regard to the witnessing of the

incident. The said omission does not suggest that he had not seen the incident. I

therefore hold that there is no merit in this contention. Learned defence counsel

marked another omission (X2) when Palitha gave evidence. This was marked as

X2. What is X2? Palitha had not stated in his evidence at the inquest that he saw

the accused appellant attacking the deceased. When he gave evidence at the inquest

he had already made a statement to the police. No such omission was marked with

his statement made to the police. Learned PC by pointing out these matters

contended that Palitha was not a reliable witness and that his evidence could not be

relied upon. I now advert to this contention. What was the behaviour of Palitha

soon after the incident? He addressed the conductor in the following language.

"Nondi Mudalali (the accused appellant) attacked a child. The child is bleeding

from the nose and the mouth. Take him to the hospital soon." This was his

immediate reaction. If he did not see the incident how did he immediately make

this kind of reaction. This shows that he had seen the incident. He made the above

observation from the driving seat itself. Thereafter what did he do? He got down

I

f I ,

I 1 I I I I

4

from the bus after stopping the engine. Due to the excitement he could not do

anything and could not move the bus. Palitha does not know the deceased child

personally. When I consider all these matters, the contention that Palitha had not

seen the incident and was not a reliable witness has to be rejected. Soon after the

incident the accused appellant was seen armed with a knife. The accused appellant

grappled with the deceased person's brother and stabbed him. When I consider all

these matters I hold that Palitha had spoken the truth and is a reliable witness. I

further hold that the prosecution has established a strong prima facie case.

The accused appellant, in his dock statement, says that he is not guilty;

that Palitha's evidence was false and that Palitha had taken different stand in his

evidence, Police statement and the evidence at the inquest.

The investigating officer took the accused appellant into custody when he

surrendered to the police on the same day. According to the police officer, there

were injuries on his body and the blood in the injuries had dried up. There was no

explanation to these injuries by the accused appellant. But there was some kind of

explanation to these injuries by the prosecution witnesses. Thilakarathne and

Amarajeewa say that the accused appellant was grappling with Thilakarthne and at

this time both had fallen on the road. There was no explanation by the accused

appellant to the strong evidence led against him at the trial. What is the position

when the accused appellant failed to offer an explanation to the incriminating

evidence? In order to answer this question, I would like to consider certain judicial

decisions.

In Sumnaweera Vs The Attorney General [1999] 3 SLR 137 His Lordship Justice

Jayasuriya held thus: "When the prosecution establishes a strong and incriminating

cogent evidence against the accused, the accused in those circumstances was

required in law to offer an explanation of the highly incriminating circumstances

established against him."

5

In Baddewithana Vs The Attorney General [1990] 1SLR 275 His Lordship

Justice PRP Perera held thus: "'From the failure of an accused to offer evidence

when a prima facie case has been made out by the prosecution and the accused is

in a position to offer an innocent explanation, an adverse inference may be drawn

under section 114(0 of the Evidence Ordinance."

In the case of Boby Mathew Vs State of Karanatake [2004] Cr.LJ Vol iii

3003 at 3015, the body of the deceased person with injuries was found tied to a cot

in the house of the accused appellant. The accused appellant failed to give

explanation as to how the body of the deceased person came to his house. The

Indian High Court remarked thus: "'No doubt it is true that under our Indian

Jurisprudence, accused has a right of silence and need not open his mouth as held

in earlier pronouncements 'he can be a silent spectator watching the prosecution

show to prove him guilty beyond reasonable doubt', the views of the Courts have

now changed to the limited extent that once the prosecution succeeds in prima

facie showing number of circumstances pointing unerringly accusing finger

towards the accused, it is for the accused to come out and say or at least explain

those circumstances which are shown to be against his innocence. If he still keeps

his mouth shut and it is not explained or even where he tries to explain certain

things which are found to be false, then the Courts are justified in drawing adverse

inference against the accused as to his conduct."

Applying the principles laid down in the above judicial decisions, I hold

that the failure of an accused person to offer an explanation when the prosecution

has established a strong prima facie case against him can be con~idered against him

and such failure suggests that he cannot contradict the prosecution case.

I have earlier held that the prosecution had established a strong prima

facie case. What is the explanation offered by the accused appellant? He says that

he is not guilty and that Palitha's evidence was false. What is his explanation to his

~II fi

J

1

1 I

t

1

6

injuries? Police Officer who arrested the accused appellant says that blood in the

injuries of the accused appellant had dried at the time of the arrest. He had offered

no explanation to these injuries. But the brother of the deceased person

Thilakarathne says that he and the accused appellant grappled. Amarajeewa says

that both the accused appellant and Thilakartahne were grappling on the ground. It

is therefore seen that there is an explanation to the injuries of the accused appellant

by the prosecution witnesses. Failure of the accused appellant to offer an

explanation to his injuries suggests that he could not contradict the evidence of the

brother of the deceased person. Thus the fact that the accused appellant, little away

from the place of offence, was armed with a knife and grappled with the brother of

the deceased person has to be accepted. When I consider all these matters I hold

that the dock statement cannot be believed and is not capable of creating a

reasonable doubt in the prosecution case.

Learned PC submitted that the learned trial Judge had not considered the

principles governing the evaluation of the dock statement. Therefore it is necessary

to consider the said principles. When evaluating a dock statement following guide

lines must be considered.

1. Dock statement should be considered as evidence subject to infirmities that

it was not a sworn statement and not tested by cross-examination.

2. If the dock statement is believed it must be acted upon.

3. If the dock statement creates a reasonable doubt in the prosecution case, the

defence of the accused must succeed.

4. Dock statement of one accused person should not be considered against the

other accused.

Learned PC contended that the learned trial Judge had not considered the 3rd

principle. But the learned trial Judge at page 469 of the brief had considered the

above principle. Therefore I am unable to agree with the above submission of

7

learned PC. When I consider the evidence led at the trial I hold the view that the

prosecution has proved the case beyond reasonable doubt.

The learned trial Judge referring to the dock statement made the following

observation. "The accused in his dock statement stated that he was not guilty and

that 6th prosecution witness Palitha had given contradictory evidence. However the

dock statement does not create a doubt with regard to his innocence. Court cannot

act on the dock statement because the evidence of the eye witness which has been

corroborated by circumstantial evidence is more acceptable." Learned PC pointing

out the above observation, contended that the learned trial Judge had decided the

case on balance probability. But it is difficult to agree with this submission as the

learned trial Judge had stated in the judgment that the case had been proved

beyond reasonable doubt. Can it be said that the learned trial Judge was unaware of

the principle that a criminal case must be proved beyond reasonable doubt? The

answer is no. I therefore reject the above submission.

The learned trial Judge when considering the omissions has considered the

statement of Palitha made to the police which was not produced as evidence at the

trial. This appears to be a misdirection. It was not necessary for the learned trial

Judge to consider the said statement when writing the judgment because the

Prosecuting State Counsel had admitted the omissions. If there was no such

admissions, defence counsel, by calling the investigating police officer, must prove

it. If the Prosecuting State Counsel takes up the position that there is no such

omission, then the trial judge for the purpose of deciding the validity of the

objection can peruse the statement in order to make a ruling. But this does not

mean that the trial Judge can use the said statement as evidence. In this connection

I would like to consider the judgment in Keerthi Bandara Vs The Attorney General

[2000] 2 SLR 245. Head note of the judgment states: "It is for the Judge to peruse

I

I I i i , 1 I

8

the Information Book in the exercise of its overall control of the said book and to

use it to aid the Court at the inquiry or trial." This should not be interpreted to say

that the Judge is empowered to use the statement of the witness which was not

produced at the trial when writing the judgment. It is pertinent to consider what His

Lordship in the above judgment said at page 258. "We lay it down that it is for the

Judge to peruse the Information Book in the exercise of his overall control of the

said book and to use it to aid the Court at the inquiry or trial. When defence

counsel spot lights a vital omission, the trial Judge ought to personally peruse the

statement recorded in the Information Book, interpret the contents of the statement

in his mind and determine whether there is a vital omission or not and thereafter

inform the members of the jury whether there is a vital omission or not and his

direction on the law in this respect is binding on the members of the jury. Thus

when the defence contends that there is a vital omission which militates against the

adoption of the credibility of the witness, it is the trial Judge who should peruse the

Information Book and decide on that issue." Where does he do it? Is it open Court

or Chambers of the Judge? Is it during trial or after conclusion of trial? It is very

clear that the Judge has to do the above things in open court during the trial

because he has to give a ruling whether he would permit the defence counsel to

mark the omission or not. If it is a trial by a judge, same procedure should apply.

When the defence counsel spot lights an omission or seeks to mark a contradiction,

the trial judge must peruse the Information Book and decide whether the sentence

in the statement which the defence counsel intends to mark as a contradiction is in

fact found in the statement or the defence counsel is trying to confront the witness

with an incomplete sentence in the statement or decide whether the omission is

correct. This is how court uses the Information Book to aid the trial or inquiry.

Thus the trial judge will have to peruse the Information Book in order to decide the

above matters. This does not mean that he can use statements of witnesses made in

I I

I

9

the course of investigation to the police officer as evidence. This view is supported

by following judicial decisions. In King Vs Soysa 26 NLR 324 His Lordship

Justice Jyawardene held: "A Judge is not entitled to use statements, made to the

police and entered in the Information Book, for the purpose of corroborating the

evidence of the prosecution."

In PAULIS APPU Vs DON DAVIT. 32 NLR 335 "Where at the

close of a case, the Police Magistrate reserved judgment, noting that he wished to

peruse the information book,- Held, that the use of the information book for the

purpose of arriving at a decision was irregular."

In WICKREMESINGHE Vs FERNANDO. 29 NLR 403 "Where a

Magistrate referred to the Police Information Book for the purpose of testing the

credibility of a witness by comparing his evidence with a statement by him to the

Police,-Held, that the use of the Police Information Book was irregular."

In INSPECTOR OF POLICE, GAMPAHA Vs PERERA 33 NLR 69

"Where, after examining the complainant and his witnesses, the Magistrate cited

the Police to produce extracts from the information book for his perusal, before

issuing process,- Held; that the use of information book was irregular."

In PEIRIS V s ELIY AT AMBY 44 NLR 207 It was held that entries in a

Police Information Book cannot be used as evidence for the purpose of testing the

credibility of a witness.

Having considered the above legal literature and observation, I hold that

in criminal trials court is not entitled to use statements made by witnesses to the

investigating police officer in the course of the investigation as evidence. A

statement made by a witness to the investigating police officer can be used for the

ft

10

purpose of contradicting the witnesses but the portion of the statement so produced

cannot be used as evidence. Such portion of the statement can be used to decide the

credibility of the witness. I further hold that the trial judge, when writing the

judgment, is not entitled to use statements made by witnesses to the investigating

police officer in the course of the investigation as evidence.

Now the question that must be considered is whether the Court of Appeal

should send the case back for retrial on the basis of the said misdirection? Why did

the learned trial judge consider the statement of Palitha made to the police? It is

necessary to state what the learned trial judge stated in his judgment. I will

reproduce below the passage of the said judgment on this point. "It should be

questioned whether the first omission marked in the 6

th witness's evidence is in

fact an omission. Because when his statement is considered as a whole it is clear

that he had seen the incident, but the failure to mention that he saw it through the

side mirror has not damaged the case." As I pointed out earlier the omission does

not suggest that Palitha did not see the incident. What it suggests is that Palitha

had, in his statement, failed to mention that he saw it through the side mirror. The

learned trial judge, without adopting the said method, should have invited counsel

for both sides to clarify this point in open court. What would have happened if the

trial Judge did not consider the statement of Palitha made to the Police? Could he

have rejected the evidence? The answer is obviously no because the omission

marked at the trial had not shaken the credibility of the witness. I have earlier held

that Palitha was a reliable witness. In my view the above misdirection has not

occasioned a miscarriage of justice. For these reasons I hold that the Court of

Appeal should not send the case back for retrial on the basis of above misdirection.

When the Court of Appeal forms the opinion that a criminal case has been proved

beyond reasonable doubt and if the Judge has made certain errors in the judgment

fIt

I

,

f i II

r r I

f t i r I f i

11

and if the said errors have not occasioned a miscarriage of justice or a failure of

justice, the benefit of such errors cannot be given to the accused appellant and

cannot be considered as a ground to allow the appeal or to secure a retrial because

such a course of action will not only create dents on the administration of justice

system of this country but also erode public confidence in the judicial system. The

Court of Appeal, in such a situation, is empowered in terms of proviso to Section

334 of the Criminal Procedure Code which reads as follows: "Provided that the

court may, notwithstanding that it is of opinion that the point raised in the appeal

might be decided in favour of the appellant, dismiss the appeal if it considers that

no substantial miscarriage of justice has actually occurred" to sustain the

conviction. This view is fortified by the following judicial decisions. His Lordship

HNG Fernando CJ in MHM Lafeer V s The Queen 74 NLR 246 at 248 remarked

thus: "there was both misdirection and non-direction on matters concerning the

standard of proof. Nevertheless, we are of the opinion having regard to the cogent

and uncontradicted evidence that a jury properly directed could not have

reasonably returned a more favourable verdict. We therefore affirm the conviction

and sentence and dismiss the appeal."

In The King V s Musthapa Lebbe 44 NLR 505 Court of Criminal Appeal

held thus: "The Court of Criminal Appeal will not interfere with the verdict of a

jury unless it has a real doubt as to the guilt of the accused or is of the opinion that

on the whole it is safer that the conviction should not be allowed to stand."

I have earlier held that the prosecution has established the case beyond

reasonable doubt.

i i i I

I

f

II

1I t I, f I

12

For the above reasons, I refuse to interfere with the judgment of the

learned trial judge and affirm the conviction and the death sentence. I dismiss the

appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

PWDC J ayathilake J

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

Judge of the Court of appeal.

( f I,II [ rIII ,