==== BLOCKS ==== 

CA/HCC/0317/25

1 | P a g e

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an Appeal made under

Section 331(1) of the Code of Criminal

Procedure Act No.15 of 1979 read with

Article 138 of the Constitution of the

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

Lanka.

Court of Appeal No: The Attorney General

CA/HCC/0317/2025 Attorney General’s Department

High Court of Anuradhapura Colombo-12.

Case No: HC/201/2011

COMPLAINANT

Vs.

Nandasirige Chinthaka Nishan

Arunashantha

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

BEFORE : P. Kumararatnam, J.

R. P. Hettiarachchi, J.

CA/HCC/0317/25

2 | P a g e

COUNSEL : Neranjan Jayasinghe with Randunu

Heellage for the Appellant.

Hiranjan Peiris, PC, ASG for the

Respondent.

ARGUED ON : 03/06/2026

DECIDED ON : 03/08/2026

******************************

JUDGMENT

P. Kumararatnam, J.

The above-named Accused-Appellants (hereinafter referred to as the

Appellants) along with three other accused persons were indicted jointly in

the High Court of Anuradhapura as follows:

1. On or about 12.10.2004, being in possession of an automatic gun,

thereby committing an offence punishable under Section 22(1) read

with Section 23(3) of the Firearms Ordinance No. 33 of 1976 as

amended by Act No. 22 of 1996.

2. In the same transaction, being in possession of 09 live bullets, thereby

committing an offence punishable under Section 9(1) read with

Section 27(1) (a) of the Explosive Act No.21 of 1956.

CA/HCC/0317/25

3 | P a g e

The trial commenced before the High Court Judge of Anuradhapura. After

the conclusion of the prosecution’s case, the Learned High Court Judge had

called for the defence and the Appellant had made a dock statement and

closed his case.

After considering the evidence presented by both parties, the Learned High

Court Judge who heard the case at the High Court of Anuradhapura

delivered the Judgement and had convicted the Appellant as charged and

sentenced him as follows:

● For the 1st Count – life imprisonment was imposed on the

Appellant.

● For the second Count - 02-years rigorous imprisonment with a

fine of Rs.2500/- on the Appellant. The fine is subject to 03

months simple imprisonment.

Being aggrieved by the aforesaid conviction and sentence, the Appellant

preferred this appeal to this court.

The Learned Counsel for the Appellant informed this court that the Appellant

has given consent to argue this matter in his absence. Also, at the time of

argument the Appellant was connected via the Zoom platform from prison.

Background of the Case.

In this case the Appellant was arrested on 12.10. 2004. The arrest and the

investigation were conducted by the officers attached to the Galgamuwa

Police Station.

PW1, IP/Rowel was attached to the Galgamuwa Police Station when the

incident had happened. According to him, on the day of the incident, upon

receiving an information about a group of armed individuals proceeding

CA/HCC/0317/25

4 | P a g e

through Galgamuwa Town in a van, he led a police team and proceeded to

the Galgamuwa junction and turned to the Nanneriya Road. Apart from the

colour of white, no other information was provided to them. Upon seeing a

van proceeding along the Nanneriya Road, they had followed the van. While

following the van, they had seen the said van skidding off the road due to

excessive speed and toppling off the road two or three times before it came

to a halt. PW1 had stopped his vehicle and gone near the toppled vehicle. At

that time, he had seen two persons running away from the vehicle while

carrying arms in their hands. When he went near the van, he had seen the

Appellant coming out of the van, holding a gun. He had arrested him at that

time with the gun, which had been produced as a production in this case.

Apart from his evidence, no other witnesses were called by the prosecution

to strengthen their case.

Although the Government Analyst Report was admitted under Section 420

of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act No.15 of 1979, the court had called

the Government Analyst and recorded his evidence.

The Appellant had filed the following grounds of appeal:

1. The evidence of the prosecution fails the test of credibility and the test

of probability.

2. The prosecution had failed to prove the chain of custody of the weapon.

3. The Learned High Court Judge had failed to consider the dock

statement.

4. The learned High Court Judge had adopted a wrong procedure in

leading evidence under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure

Act No. 15 of 1979.

In the first ground of appeal the learned Counsel for the Appellant contended

that the evidence of the prosecution fails the test of credibility and the test

of probability.

CA/HCC/0317/25

5 | P a g e

In this case the prosecution had only called PW1 in support of their case.

PW1 had started the mission upon receiving an information of a white

colored van which had been proceeding through Galgamuwa town. No other

information was provided. When they were on the Nanneriya Road, they had

seen a van and they had followed the same. Although it was his position that

he saw the van skidding off the road, in the cross examination he had

admitted that he did not witness how the van skidded off the road. When he

came to the spot, the van was already off the road with damages. The relevant

portion is re-produced below:

Pages 178-179 of the brief.

ප්‍ර : දැන් ඔබ දැක්කද ඔය වාහනය නාන්නන්රිය පහු නවනනකාට ඔය වාහනය නපරනෙනවා

උ : දැක්නක් නෑ ස්වාමීණී.

ප්‍ර: ඔබ දකිනනකාට නකානහාමද වාහනය තිබුනන්?

උ: වාහනය නපරලිො හිටන් ආනේ පියවි තත්වයට තිනයනවා.

ප්‍ර: ඔබ නකානහාමද කියන්නන් වාහනය නපරලිො පියවි තත්වයට තිබුනා කියො දකින්නන් නැතිව?

උ: ඒ වාහනය ඈත දිත් නේනවා වාහනය කැඩිො සම්පූර්ණනයන් පැත්තක් ගැෙවිො ගිහිල්ො

Deference ගැෙවිො ගිහිල්ො නරෝදයක් පැත්තකට නවො. අබෙන් තත්වනේ වාහනයක්. ස්වාමිණි

වාහනයක් පානරන් පිට පනිනවා නම්ප නම්පක ආපදාවකට ෙක් නවච්ච එකක් කියො අනුමාන කරන්න

පුළුවන්. නමාකද වාහනය පානණ නනනමයිනන් තිනයන්නන් ස්වාමීණී

ප්‍ර: ඒ කියන්නන් තමුන් දැක්නක් පානරන් ඉවතට පැනො තිබිච්ච වෑන් එකක් තිනයනවා දැක්නක්?

උ:එනහමයි ස්වාමිණි

Although he had seen two people escaping from the van, he had not taken

any action to apprehend them. Further, he had arrested the Appellant who

had come with a gun from the toppled vehicle. The learned Counsel

CA/HCC/0317/25

6 | P a g e

strenuously argued that the position taken up by PW1 is per se contradictory

and cannot be believed as no corroborating evidence was led by the

prosecution.

A per se contradiction refers to a substantial or irreconcilable inconsistency

in the testimony of a witness or between key pieces of evidence. In criminal

trials, such contradictions would destroy the credibility of the witness. In

situations where two statements could not practically be true at the same

time, it would amount to a substantial inconsistency, for which the

consequences would be severe. The prosecution would be responsible for

proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt; therefore, serious contradictions

would lead in the evidence being discarded, or the accused being given the

benefit of the doubt.

In the case of Kotuwila Kankanamalage Premalal Leonard Perera v

Attorney General [SC/Appeal/220/2014] decided on 09.11.2018 the

Supreme Court observed that

“It is evident that a Magistrate will only act on the evidence of a witness

if the witness is a credible witness and the credibility is tested mainly

on the demeanour or deportment of a witness after applying several

tests such as probability/ improbability, spontaneity, belatedness,

consistency/inconsistency, and/or interestedness/

disinterestedness/”.

In the case of K. Padmathilaka alias Sergeant Elpitiya v. The Director

General of Commission to Investigate Allegation of Bribery and

Corruption [2010] BLR 67 the court held that:

“Credibility of prosecution witnesses should be subject to judicial

evaluation in totality and not isolated scrutiny by the judge. When witness

makes an inconsistent statement in their evidence either at one stage or

two stages, the testimony of such witness is unreliable……It is a cardinal

CA/HCC/0317/25

7 | P a g e

principle that unreliable evidence cannot be rendered credible, simply

because there is some corroboration material”.

In the case of Joy Devaraj vs The State of Kerala (2024) INSC 473 it was

held:

“The threshold for disbelieving a witness is not mere discrepancy or

inconsistency but material discrepancy and inconsistency, which

renders the account narrated by the witnesses so highly improbable

that the same may safely be discarded altogether from consideration.”

In this case, the evidence given by PW1 creates a reasonable doubt about the

happening of the incident as described by him. The infirmities highlighted

above had escaped the attention of the Learned High Court Judge in

evaluating the evidence of PW1.

In the second ground of appeal, the learned Counsel for the Appellant

contended that the chain of custody of the weapon has not been proved by

the prosecution.

Chain of custody refers to the history of evidence which is documented and

verifiable, beginning from the moment of collection until the moment such

evidence is presented in court. As such, each and every update relating to

the evidence would be tracked, including its control, transfer, storage,

access, analysis and final disposition.

Each person handling the evidence would therefore be required to sign and

make a log of their respective interactions, including the time, date and

reason for each transfer. This would build up a clear legal record of

responsibility, therefore, as a result, any missing information on timelines or

unclear explanations would be potential vulnerabilities that the opposing

side could use and exploit to their advantage.

CA/HCC/0317/25

8 | P a g e

According to the prosecution, PW1 had handed over the gun to PW15 and

thereafter, there is no evidence as to who had taken the production and there

is no evidence regarding the chain of custody up to the Government Analyst.

As the prosecution had failed to prove exactly how and who had handled the

gun from the crime scene to the courtroom and the Government Analyst, I

conclude the evidence is deemed to be inadmissible or insufficient. This too

had escaped the attention of the Learned High Court Judge.

The learned Counsel raised the question whether the Learned High Court

Judge has evaluated the dock statement of the Appellant.

A dock statement refers to an unsworn statement made by an accused from

the courtroom dock rather than giving sworn testimony. The evaluation of

such statements would be extremely important, as they would be legally

considered to be evidence, and as such, must be carefully assessed to protect

the defendant’s right to a fair trial. Therefore, although a dock statement

would lack the full probative weight as cross-examined evidence would, it

still remains important to the case at hand. Further, even if the statement is

not fully believed, if its content is sufficient to create a reasonable doubt

regarding the prosecution’s case in the perspective of the jury or judge, the

accused would then legally be entitled to an acquittal.

In Queen V. Kularatne 71 NLR 529 at page 531it was held that: -

“when an unsworn statement is made by the accused from the dock,

the jurors must be informed that such statement must be looked upon

as evidence, subject however to the infirmity that the accused had

deliberately refrained from giving sworn testimony. But the jury must

also be directed that,

(a) if they believe the unsworn statement, it must be acted upon,

(b) if it raises a reasonable doubt in their minds about the case for

the prosecution, the defence must succeed, and

(c) that it should not be used against another accused.”

CA/HCC/0317/25

9 | P a g e

In Kathubdeen v. Republic of Sri Lanka [1998] 3 SLR 107 the court held

that:

“It is settled law that an unsworn statement must be treated as

evidence. It has also been laid down that if the unsworn statement

creates a reasonable doubt in the prosecution case or if it is believed,

then the accused should be given the benefit of that doubt.”

Election of making a statement from the dock is a statutory right of an

Accused, which should not be disregarded when evaluating evidence by the

trial Judge. In this case the Learned High Court Judge had completely

disregarded the dock statement of the Appellant and only considered the

prosecution evidence. He had said in the judgment that since the Appellant

had failed to adduce evidence, therefore, he considers only the prosecution

evidence. The relevant page is re-produced below:

Page 303 of the brief.

නකනස් නවතත් නමම නඩු විභාගනේදී විත්තිය විසින් සාක්ි කැඳවීමක් සිදු කර නනාමැත. එබැවින්

පැමිණිල්ෙ විසින් ඉදිරිපත් කර ඇති සාක්ි නමම අධිකරර්ය විසින් විශ්නල්ෂර්ය කළ යුතු නේ.

Hence, this ground too has merit.

In the final ground of appeal, the Appellant contended that the procedure

adopted in leading evidence under Section 439 of the Criminal Procedure

Code was wrong.

In this case, although the prosecution and defense admitted the Government

Analyst Report under Section 420 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, the

Learned High Court Judge had called the Government Analyst under Section

439 of the CPC. The learned Counsel for the Appellant contended that

directing the learned State Counsel to lead the evidence of Government

Analyst is wrong, as both the State Counsel and the defense only have the

right of cross examination. His argument is that the Court should have led

CA/HCC/0317/25

10 | P a g e

his evidence and left the witness to be cross examined by the prosecution

and the defense.

Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act No.15 of 1979 states:

Any court may at any stage of an inquiry, trial, or other proceeding

under this Code summon any person as a witness or examine any

person in attendance though not summoned as a witness or recall and

re-examine any person already examined; and the court shall summon

and examine or recall and re-examine any such person if his evidence

appears to it essential to the just decision of the case.

As per Section 439 of the CPC, the trial Judge can summon, recall or re-

examine any person if it is decided that their testimony is crucial to reach a

just and fair decision in that particular case.

Under Section 439 of the CPC and Section 165 of the Evidence Ordinance,

the Trial Judge is vested with a broad statutory authority to summon any

person as a witness or to examine anyone present in court, in order to obtain

the appropriate proof of any relevant facts. This is in line with the Court’s

responsibility to discover the truth, and not to merely silently observe.

When the judge calls a court witness, the established practice would be to

allow both the State Counsel as well as the defence to cross-examine the

witness. However, in situations where the testimony of the witness is with

the objective of establishing any facts favourable to the case of the

prosecution, or to bring forward primary facts originally produced before the

Court, the State Counsel will be directed to lead the examination-in-chief of

the witness. This is a generally accepted practice insofar as it facilitates the

systematic and practical gathering of evidence.

Therefore, I conclude that allowing the State Counsel to lead the evidence of

the Government Analyst called by the Court has not caused any prejudice to

the Appellant. It is pertinent to note that the prosecution and the defence

CA/HCC/0317/25

11 | P a g e

had admitted the Government Analyst Report under Section 420 of the Code

of Criminal Procedure Act.

In criminal trials, the probability of facts would be of utmost importance in

relation to fact-finding and evaluation of evidence. It would act as the

connecting link between the available circumstantial evidence and the final

conclusion, and as such, would assist in the decision of whether guilt has

been proven or not. Due to the practical difficulties in ascertaining absolute

certainty, the legal system contains high probability thresholds that must be

met in order to convict; this would protect the innocent from any wrongful

judgments.

In this case, considering the evidence given by PW1, there is a serious doubt

regarding the events explained by the witness. The non investigation with

regard to the involvement of the van which met with the accident is highly

questionable.

In Woolmington v DPP (1935) the Court ruled that in criminal cases, the

burden of proof is always on the prosecution to prove the defendant's guilt

beyond a reasonable doubt. The defendant is presumed innocent until

proven guilty, and it is not for the defendant to prove his innocence.

In The Queen v. K.A. Santin Singho 65 NLR 447 the court held that:

“It is fundamental that the burden of proof is on the prosecution.

Whether the evidence the prosecution relies on is direct or

circumstantial, the burden is the same. This burden is not altered by the

failure of the appellant to give evidence and explain the circumstances”.

In Miller v. Minister of Pensions (1947) 2 All E.R. 372 the court held that:

“…the evidence must reach the same degree of cogency as is required

in a criminal case before an accused person is found guilty. That degree

is well settled. It need not reach certainty, but it must carry high degree

of probability. Proof beyond reasonable doubt does not mean proof

CA/HCC/0317/25

12 | P a g e

beyond the shadow of a doubt. The law would fail to protect the

community if it admitted fanciful possibilities to deflect the course of

justice. If the evidence is so strong against a man as to leave only a

remote possibility in his favour which can be dismissed with the

sentence, “of course it is possible, but not in the least probable,” the case

is proved beyond reasonable doubt, but nothing short of that will

suffice”.

In The King Vs. W. P. Buckley 43 NLR 474, it was stated by Howard, C.J.:

“In arriving at a verdict of guilty, the majority of the jury must have viewed

the evidence in sections accepted and convicted the appellant on those

parts that were satisfactory and disregard those facts that pointed to the

improbability of the story put forward by the Crown. The jury should have

viewed the evidence as a whole. If they had done so, we are of opinion

that they must have had a reasonable doubt as to the guilt of the appellant.

The verdict is in our opinion, unreasonable, in as much as taken as a whole

the evidence does not support the conviction.”

In the case of Officer - In - Charge, Police Station Udu Dumbara Vs. U.G.

Sunil and Others (SC/APPEAL/27/2019), decided on 05.06.2024 it was

noted:

“It has been firmly established that, in a criminal case, that the charges

against the Accused should be proved beyond reasonable doubt. Proof

beyond a reasonable doubt generally means the Court must carefully

consider the entirety of admissible evidence to such scrutiny to see

whether the ingredients of the charges are proved. If the Court is not

satisfied the accused person must be acquitted.”

In this case as stated earlier, the Learned Trial Judge had come to a

conclusion that the evidence given by PW1 could be accepted as true

regarding the raid conducted in respect of the Appellant. But as stated

CA/HCC/0317/25

13 | P a g e

earlier, PW1’s evidence contained serious infirmities and inconsistencies

which certainly undermine his evidence. The grounds of appeal pleaded

above have merits which certainly disturb the judgment of the Learned High

Court Judge.

Due to the aforesaid reasons, I set aside the conviction and the sentence

dated 16/07/2025 imposed on the Appellant by the Learned High Court

Judge of Anuradhapura. Therefore, I acquit him from both charges.

Accordingly, the appeal is allowed.

The Registrar of this Court is directed to send this judgement to the High

Court of Anuradhapura along with the original case record.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

R. P. Hettiarachchi, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL