==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A. No. 69/1998 F D.C.Kurunegala No. 3453/P

M.P. Layanal Premalatha Rabe, Ma Eliya.

Appellant Vs. W. Somadasa Rabe, Ma Eliya.

Respondent

I

1

C.A. No. 69/1998F) D.C.Kurunegala No. 3453/P

BEFORE K.T. CHITRASIRI, J.

COUNSEL Parties are absent and unrepresented.

DECIDED ON 30th Janurary, 2014.

***********

K.T. CHITRASIRI, J.

Upon preparation of the briefs, the Registrar of this Court

has sent notices to the parties as well as to their registered Attorneys

directing them to collect the briefs and to be present in this Court on

12th December, 2013. When this matter was mentioned on that date

namely, 12th December, 2013 neither the parties nor their Attorneys

were present in Court, even though the notices referred to above had

been sent under registered cover to the addresses given in the petition of

appeal. Also, it is to be noted that those notices have not been returned.

Accordingly, this Court had no option than to fix the matter for

argument in their absence. The case was taken up for argument today.

The parties are not present even today.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the judgment dated

12th November 1997 of the learned District Judge of Kurunegala. In the

said judgment, learned District Judge, made order partitioning lot (1)

2

referred to in the plan bearing No.329/Kuru/91 drawn by R.B.

Premathilaka Bandara, Licensed Surveyor having allocated half share to

the plaintiff-respondent. The balance half share was not allocated to any

party due to not proving the title of the said half share. Being aggrieved

by the said judgment, the 3rd defendant-appellant filed this appeal

stating that she has established her title to the land sought to be

partitioned and also stating that the land had not been properly

identified by the learned District Judge.

Both these issues had been carefully considered by the

learned District Judge. In his judgment, the learned District Judge has

looked at the deeds marked 3V1 and 3V2. The deed marked 3V2 had

already been produced by the plaintiff having marked the same as P3.

The land referred to in the deed 3V2 is not a land subjected to in this

action.(vide proceedings at pages 92, 93 and 95). Therefore, it is seen I

(

that the learned District Judge has considered the deeds marked by the

appellant carefully and has decided that those are not relevant to this

action.

Learned District Judge has also looked at the question of

identity of the land sought to be partitioned. The 3rd defendant-appellant

has taken up the position that the land sought to be partitioned is not

the lot (1) in the plan marked "X" but it is the land referred to in the

plan bearing No. 1064A marked 3V4. However, she has not taken steps

1 3

to submit a plan to show the land she was referring to even though the

Court has given six opportunities for her to do so. It being a matter

within her knowledge and a matter she wanted to have established, the

burden is on the appellant to show the land with reference to the plan

she has marked as 3V4. Accordingly, the learned District Judge has

rejected her application and has decided that the plaintiff has

established that the land sought to be partitioned is lot (1) referred to

in the plan bearing No. 329 marked as "X".

In the circumstances, I do not see any error on the part of

the learned District Judge when deciding the case finally. For the

aforesaid reasons this appeal is dismissed without costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Kwk/=

I

\

i

~ i It I

\

f

\