==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

C.A 14-15/2003

High Court Hambantota

Case No: 15/97

Before

Counsel

Argued & decided on

1. Karalainge Prematilaka,

2. Maddumage Gardiyes

Vs.

The Attorney -General.

Sisira J. de A brew J. & P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J.

J. P. Gamage for the 1st Accused- Appellant.

Ranjith Meegahawatta for the 2nd Accused-Appellant.

Kapila Waidyarathna D.S.G for the Attorney -General.

27.05.2013.

2

Sisira J. de Abrew J.

The Accused-Appellants produced by the Prison Authorities

are present in court.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases. The

two accused-appellants in this case were convicted of the

murder of a woman named Korale Jayasinghe Arachchige

Maryhamy and the murder of a girl named Korale

J ayasinghege Cham pika Surangani. The learned Trial

Judge after conviction sentenced both Accused-Appellants to

death. Being aggrieved by the said convictions and the

sentences they have appealed to this court.

Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as follows. The

incident in this case took place on 27.05.1991 which was a

vesak full moon Poya day. The villagers in Walasmulla had

organized a musical show on this day. The deceased

woman Maryhamy with her three sons and the daughter

was returning home after attending the said musical show.

3

When they were retuning home Pushpakumara and

Padmakumara heard shouts of their sister. When they

turned back they saw the two accused persons holding

their sister Champika Surangani. When the mother

Maryhamy went near the two accused- appellants asking

for her daughter, the 2nd accused-appellant attacked

Maryhamy. Thereafter they both took Champika Surangani

towards a shrub jungle. Mother fell on the ground with

bleeding . . . InJunes. The two boys Pushpakumara and

Padmakumara were 11 years and 9 years old at that time.

On hearing the shouts of two boys one Kurunde Mama

came to the scene and on learning what has happened he

went and informed the Gramasevaka of the area who was at

the musical show at that time. Grama Sevaka immediately

informed the crime to the police and the police officers who

came to the scene found the dead body of Champika

Suranganie around 4.00 a.m. in a shrub jungle which was

around 300 meters away from the place where Maryhamy

was lying fallen. The two accused-appellants who were

unknown to Pushpakumara and Padmakumara were later

4

identified by them at an identification parade held by the

learned Magistrate. The only ground urged on behalf of the

1st accused-appellant was that the identification parade was

not conducted in accordance with the rules laid down in

Perera Vs. State 77 N.L.R. page 224. I now advert to the

said ground of appeal urged on behalf of the 1st accused-

appellant . In Perera Vs. State His Lordship Justice

Walgampaya observed the following facts. " Eleven prison

officers of W alikada Prison were suspects in the commission

of the offence of causing the death of a prisoner in the same

prison on 22.09.69. On receipt of various B reports from the

police, the Magistrate of the area recorded the statements of

certain witnesses on 24.09.69. At an identification parade

held on 09.10.69, 53 of the prison officers and 23 persons

from the public were all lined up in a room in the well of

the court, and identifying witnesses were called up one by

one to point out the various persons who committed the

various acts of assault on the deceased. Before the three

identifying witnesses were questioned they were reminded

5

by the Magistrate of the contents of the statements made by

them on 24.09.69.

Held, that with 53 prison officers in the parade and only 23

persons from the public, the parade was not properly

constituted. Although the 53 prison officers were not all

suspects, still it was evident that the ratio of one outsider

to two prison officers was inappropriate and unfair. The

proper procedure that the Magistrate should have adopted

was-

(a) that he should have held several parades in

conformity with the practice followed in similar

circumstances,

(b) to have asked the particular witnesses to identify

any suspect if he was in the parade.

(c) If a witness pointed out any person, then only

should the Magistrate have asked the witness

whether that the accused whom he pointed out

did any thing, and

(d) If so, the details of what he did."

6

In the present case when the two witnesses were brought to

the well of the court for the purpose of identifying the

witnesses, the Magistrate addressed the witnesses in the

following language. "On Vesak day you with your mother,

sister and brother went to see a musical show. On your way

back some people took your sister away after assaulting the

mother. Point out them if they are present here". This was

the language used by the learned Magistrate addressing the

witnesses. In Perera Vs. State 77 NLR 224 the witnesses

had made statements to the Learned Magistrate who held

the parade. The learned Magistrate when holding the

identification parade referring to the statements made by the

witnesses told them to identify the accused with reference to

certain features of the suspects stated in their statements.

In that case the learned Magistrate told the witness point

out the person whom he referred to as Boxing Mahatthaya

in his statement. Further the learned Magistrate told the

witness to point out the person whom he referred to as

Kannadi Peiris in his statement. Kannadi Peiris and Boxing

7

Mahaththaya were suspects at the parade and the

witnesses identified Kannadi Peiris and Boxing Mahatthaya.

It is therefore seen in the case of Perera Vs. State the

Magistrate had told the witnesses to identify the suspects

with refereqce to certain features of the suspects. In the

present case, the Magistrate had not taken such a step and

further the witnesses had not made statements to the

Magistrate. I therefore hold that the facts of Perera Vs.

State are different from the facts of this case. At this stage

it is pertinent to consider the judgment in the case of the

Attorney- General Vs. Joseph Alloysius and others [ 1992]

2 SLR page 264. A bench comprising Justices S.N. Silva and

D.P.S. Gunasekera considered the procedure that should be

followed in conducting an identification parade with

reference to Perera Vs. State 77 NLR page 224. His Lordship

Justice S.N. Silva in the said case held thus: " the witness

should not see or be reminded of any photograph or

description of the suspect or, be given any other indication

of his identity. If a witness is asked to identify a suspect at

a parade with reference to the act done by a person in the

8

commission of the offence, it would not be objectionable, in

relation to the provisions of the manual, circular or the

Code.

The proper procedure to be adopted at an identification

parade as stated by Walgamapaya J in the case of Perera Vs.

State 77 NLR 224 should be understood only in the context

of the objectionable features as noted in that case.

It would not be objectionable to request a witness at a

parade, to identify any person, with reference to the acts or

presence of persons who participated in the commission of

the offence. However, in addressing such a request or

question to a witness, reference should not be made to the

appearance or physical characteristic of any particular

participant, as would facilitate his identification at the

parade. Where an objection is taken to the evidence of

identification that is otherwise relevant and admissible, the

court has to consider not only whether there is a breach of

what is generally observed as the proper procedure but also

• 9

the extent to which such breach has impaired the fairness

of the proceedings. Such evidence of identification may be

excluded only if the court finds that its admission to have an

adverse effect on the fairness of the proceedings."

In the present case the Learned Magistrate at the

identification parade had only referred to the incident and

requested the witnesses who were 9 years and 11 years old

at that time to point out them. He has not made any

reference to the appearance or physical characteristic of any

suspect. I therefore hold that the procedure adopted by the

learned Magistrate in the present case is not objectionable

and is in accordance with the guidelines set out in the

Attorney -General Vs. Joseph Alloysius and others [ 1992] 2

SLR page 264. For the above reasons I reject the

submissions of learned counsel for the 1st accused-

appellant.

Learned counsel for the 2nd accused-appellant took up the

same objection with regard to the holding of the

• 10

identification parade. In addition to the said objection

learned counsel for the 2nd accused -appellant tried to

contend that it was easier for the witnesses to identify the

2nd accused-appellant at the parade since he had lost his

right arm. I now advert to this contention. Did the

witnesses, at the parade, identify the 2nd accused -

appellant because he had lost his arm. The answer is no. It

is admitted that, at the time that the 2nd accused-appellant

was produced at the identification parade, he did not have

his right arm. Have the two eye witnesses at the stage of

investigation, said that a person without an arm attacked

their mother or carried their sister? The answer is no.

Therefore the fact that the 2nd accused was a person who

was without an arm has not helped the two eye witnesses

Pushpakumara and Padmakumara to identify the 2nd

accused-appellant. In fact the 2nd accused at the parade had

not said that the two eye witnesses were able to identify

him due to his defect. What he had taken up at the parade

was that the witnesses were able to identify him as they had

come to his brother's place quite often. When I consider the

• 11

above matters I am unable to agree with the submissions of

the learned counsel for 2nd accused-appellant. Both counsel

did not urge any other matters before us. We have

considered the evidence led at the trial and see no reason to

interfere with the judgment of the learned trial Judge. For

the above reasons, we affirm the convictions and the

sentences and dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

P.W.D.C Jayathilaka. I agree.

Vkg/-

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL