==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

A. G. Ratnapala Samaraweera

No.46, Sir Earnest de Silva Mawatha

Colombo 07.

Plaintiff

Vs

C.A. Appeal No. 619/99(F)

D.C. Mount Lavinia Case No. 187 /95/RE

The Green Inn (Pvt) Limited

No.241/ 1, Galle Road,

Colombo 04

Defendant

And

The Green Inn (Pvt) Limited

No.241/1, Galle Road,

Colombo 04

Defendant-Appellant

Vs.

A. G. Ratnapala Samaraweera

No.46, Sir Earnest de Silva Mawatha

Colombo 07.

Plaintiff-Respondent 1

Before

Counsel

Argued on

Written Submissions

Tendered on

Decided on

A W A Salam, J

A.W.A. Salam, J.

C. Witharana with M. Gamage for the

defendant- appellant and Gamini Marapana P.C. with Nawin Marapana for the plaintiff-respondent.

27.09.2012.

07.12.2012

11.03.2013

This appeal raises the question as to whether the

plaintiff-respondent (plaintiff) is entitled to have the

defendant-appellant (defendant) ejected from the

premises leased out to the latter, on the ground of

areas of rent as alleged in the plaint. The plaintiff

further alleged that the premises in suit are excepted

premises within the meaning of Rent Act No 7 of

1972. The learned District Judge by his judgment

dated 30th December 1998 held inter alia that the

premises in suit are exempted from the Provisions of

the Rent. He further held that the defendant has

failed to pay the monthly rentals as agreed in terms

of the indenture of lease and therefore liable to be

ejected. The defendant has preferred the present

appeal against the said judgment. 2

The mrun question that anses for determination in

this appeal is whether the premises in suit are in fact

excepted premises within the meaning of the Rent

Act. According to the indenture of release bearing No

2633 produced at the trial marked as P2, the

contents of which are admitted by both parties, the

plaintiff has let to the defendant premises bearing

assessment No 239, Galle Road, Colombo 4 and the

open area bearing No 241, Galle Road Colombo 4.

There was no dispute that premises No 241/1 were

used as the means of access to premises No 239. In

terms of paragraph 6 (h), the premises in question

had been admittedly let to the defendant by the

plaintiff to carry on the business of a restaurant and

hotel. Based on the indenture of lease admitted by

both parties the premises in question had been

therefore intended to be used as business premises.

Section 21 of the Evidence Ordinance deals with

proof of admissions against a person who makes

them or his representative in interests. In this case

the defendant has admitted by subscribing it's

signature to the Lease Agreement that the premises

in question are intended to be put to the use of a

hotel or restaurant. The learned President's Counsel

for the plaintiff has submitted that by reason of the 3

Provisions of Section 21 of the Evidence Ordinance

the defendant cannot and is now estopped from

denying the fact that a restaurant is being run in the

premises in suit. The contention of the learned

President's Counsel on this matter, in my opinion is

not without merit.

The other allegation made against the defendant is

that he had fallen into arrears of rent from March

1993 to November 1993. As has been observed by the

learned District Judge, the defendant has failed to

establish that he has duly paid rentals for the said

period. Consequently, the learned Judge came to the

conclusion that the defendant has in fact fallen into

areas of rent as alleged by the plaintiff. Since the

finding of the learned District Judge on the question

as to whether the defendant had fallen into areas of

rent is based on factual matters arising from the

evidence led before him, I do not propose to analyze it

critically, for it appears to me as quite consistent with

the evidence led at the trial. In any event, as has

been clearly proved at the trial and admitted by the

defendant, the first assessment of the premises in

suit was in excess of Rs.6000 /-and therefore

undoubtedly the leased premises are not govemed by

the Provisions of the Rent Act.

4

The next question that must be adverted to at this

stage is whether the case of Wimalaratna V s

Linganathan 1984 1 SLR 14 7 has any relevance to

this case. The learned President's Counsel has

submitted that clause 6 (h) of the said lease P2 puts

this issue beyond doubt as the premises were leased

out for the specific purpose of running a restaurant

or hotel. He further submitted that as at the

commencement of the lease itself the parties had

agreed that the premises were to be considered

business premises and used as such and hence the

decision in the said case of Wimalaratna (supra) is of

no relevance.

Having considered the submissions made by both

parties, I am of the opinion that the learned District

Judge's findings with regard to the question of

arrears of rent and whether the premises in suit are

excepted premises cannot be faulted. In the

circumstances the impugned judgment is affirmed

and the appeal preferred by the defendant is

dismissed subject to costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

Kwk/-5