==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

CA (W j A) No.1142j06

In the matter of an application for a mandate in

the nature of writ of certiorari and mandamus in

terms of Article 141 of the Constitution.

Mohammed Abusally Ahamed Nazeer

224A, Bad ur School Road

Town Division 5

Akkaraipattu.

And Presently

No.60, Al Munawwara Road,

Akkaraipattu 14

Vs.

1. Divisional Secretary

Divisional Secretariat

Akkaraipattu

2. Secretary

Petitioner

Ministry of Agriculture Development

"Govijana Mandiraya"

Rajamalwatte Road

Battaramulla

3. Minister of Agriculture Development

Ministry of Agriculture Development

"Govijana Mandiraya"

Rajamalwatte Road

Before:

Counsel:

Argued On:

Decided On:

S.Sriskandarajah J

2

Battaramulla

4. M.M.M. Nizar

224 Badur School Road

Town Division 5

Akkaraipattu

S. Sriskandarajah J, P(C/ A)

Nizam Kariappar,

for the Petititoner

Milinda Gunatillake, Senior State Counsel,

for the 1 st to 3rd Respondents.

T. Machado, for the 4th Respondent.

04.05.2011

15.07.2011

Respondents

The Petitioner is a resident of Akkaraipattu in the district of Ampara and he owns a

property about 250 meters away from the beach of the eastern coast. The Petitioner

submitted the tsunami that struck on the 26th of December 2004, damaged and

destroyed the house of the Petitioner and as a result the Petitioner and his family were

displaced. The Petitioner further submitted that about 70 meters east of the Petitioner's

property there was a school named Al Badur School which was also affected by

tsunami waves and was damaged. The Divisional Secretary of Akkaraipattu caused a

gazette notification published in June 2007 in terms of Section 2 of the Land Acquisition

3

Act to ascertain the suitability of the Petitioner's land to acquire the Petitioner's land for

a public purpose.

Thereafter an Order in terms of section 38 proviso (a) of the Land Acquisition Act was

published in the Gazette dated the 25th of May 2006 acquiring the Petitioner's land. The

Petitioner contended that there are alternative lands in the vicinity of the school and the

owners of those lands are willing to sell the said lands to the school for the expansion of

the school. The Petitioner further contended that the school Development Society has

also recommended several other lands in the vicinity of the school that are suitable for

the expansion of the school. The 1st Respondent has not taken into consideration all

those recommendations, but has taken steps to acquire the Petitioner's property which

is the property in respect of which the petitioner was intending to obtain assistance to

rebuild the house that was affected by tsunami and to go into occupation.

The Respondents' position was that the Al Badur Vidyalaya was destroyed by tsunami

and the students of the said school are been accommodated in a temporary shed and

they were suffering immense hardship, as a result their school cannot be rebuilt in the

same place where it was situated and that there was an urgent need to acquire private

lands in that area as there was no government land to put up the said school. In view of

this a survey was conducted by the 1st Respondent after publishing a Section 2 notice

and certain lands were identified for acquisition for the said school. Due to the

urgency, to relocate and re-build Al Badur Vidyalaya, a notice under Section 38 Proviso

(a) of the Land Acquisition Act was published. The funds for the re-building of the

school had been made available by UNICEF, and it is of utmost importance that such

funds are utilized for re-Iocation and construction of the said school.

The Petitioner's challenge to the said acquisition is on the basis that there are other

alternative lands that could have been acquired. The Land Acquisition Act and the

Land Manual provide the procedure for acquisition of land, and the Land Manual states

4

that after publishing a section 2 notice under the Land Acquisition Act, the relevant

officer has to inspect the lands that are available and identify a suitable land that could

be acquired for the required public purpose. In this regard Section 2 notice was

published and the Petitioner's land and four other lands were identified for the said

acquisition and to be utilized for the re-building of the school. As stated by the

Respondent, the said school was affected by tsunami and thereafter the children of that

school were housed in temporary sheds, hence it has become necessary to acquire the

said lands urgently and to put up buildings. The Respondent has also sated that

necessary funds were available to accomplish that task.

Orders under Section 38 proviso (a) could only be made if there is urgency exist in

acquiring the said land. In Moris Indira Fernandopillai v E.L. Senanayake Minister of Lands

and Lands Development 79 (2) N.L.R.115 the Court held an order by the Minister under

the proviso (a) of Section 38 of the Land Acquisition Act can be made only in case of

urgency and an order made under this provision can be reversed by the Court. It is

however a matter for the Petitioner who seeks the remedy by way of certiorari to satisfy

the Court that there was in fact no urgency and his application cannot succeed should

he fail to do so. In this case the Petitioner has failed to establish that there is no urgency,

but on the other hand, the Respondent had shown that there is urgency and the

acquisition is justified under section 38 proviso (a) in the given circumstances.

In view of the above the Court is of the view that the petitioner has not established

sufficient grounds to challenge the acquisition and therefore the Court dismisses this

application of the Petitioner without costs.

~ /-,/ t .- •

./"Pieside~t of the Court of Appeal