==== BLOCKS ==== 

\ 1

\

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI lANKA

C.A. 992/99(F) N.G.S. Rajaratne

D.C.Gampaha 38571/l Mukalana Junction, Kanduboda

BEFORE:

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

Delgoda

Defendant-Appellant

Vs

leena Abeywickrema

Muthuwella Mawatha

Colombo 15

Responden~Respondent

A.W.A. Salam J.,

Sunil Rajapakse J.,

S.Gunawardena with A.liyanage for the Appellant

Rohan Sahabandu, P.C with Ms.S.Kumarawadu for the

Respondent

8,03.2013

12.11.2013

2

Sunil Rajapakse J.,

The Plaintiff Respondent instituted action in the District Court of

Gampaha against the Defendant-Appellant seeking to eject the Defendant

Appellant from premises 3A in extent 18 perches. The Appellant Respondent

failed to file his answer on 14.08.1997. Thereafter an exparte trial was held and

the learned District Judge entered judgment against the Appellant Respondent

on 06.05.1998. The Court has granted relief prayed for by the Plaintiff.

Thereafter decree was served on the Defendant Appellant by the Fiscal on

02.11.1998 and the Respondent filed petition and affidavit to have the said

exparte judgment and decree of the District Judge set aside. At the inquiry on

14.06.1999 the Appellant Respondent had given evidence and thereafter the

Appellant filed his written submissions. The Court has pronounced its order on

24.11.1999 refusing the application of the Defendant to purge the default.

Being aggrieved with the said order the Defendant had filed this appeal.

I am of the view that Section 86(2) of the Civil Procedure Code is the

provisions which confers jurisdiction on the District Court to set aside a default

decree.

Section 86(2) states as follows :/Where within 14 days of the service of

the decree entered against him for default, Defendant with notice to the

,

I

I

i f II II I

~ i

I I

3

Plaintiff makes application to and thereafter satisfies court that he had

reasonable grounds for such default, the court shall set aside the judgment and

decree and permit the Defendant to proceed with his defence as from the stage

of the default upon such terms as to cost or otherwise as to the court shall

appear proper.

In this case I note when the matter was fixed for Answer on 14.8.1997 the

Defendant Appellant was absent and unrepresented and on an application

made by the Plaintiff Respondent the matter was fixed for exparte trial. After

the exparte trial Judgment was entered in favour of the Plaintiff Respondent. In

this case the Defendant Appellant seeks to set aside exparte judgment on two

grounds.

(i) That his Attorney at Law has not filed his answer though instructed;

(iiJ The Appellant could not come to court as he was sick;

The Defendant in his application to set aside the exparte decree must

satisfy the District Judge for his default. If the learned District Judge is satisfied

with the reasons given by the Appellant he has powers to vacate the exparte

decree. At the inquiry to set aside the judgment the reasons given by the

Appellant's for his default in filing answer was the negligence of the Appellant's

IIrI

tt

IIII

4

Attorney at law and illness of the Appellant. The learned District Judge correctly

not satisfied with the reasons given by the Appellant and delivered his Order

refusing the application of the Appellant to have the exparte judgment set

aside. This matter was taken up for inquiry on 14.06.1999 after notice to the

Plaintiff. The Defendant Appellant testified at this inquiry. No other witnesses

were called on behalf of the Defendant. At the inquiry the position taken up by

the Appellant was that the failure to file his answer on the due was his ill

health. But the Appellant failed to prove this argument in the District Court. I

note at the default inquiry that the Appellant did not tender a medical

certificate to Court. Further the Appellant has failed to call the doctor who

treated him for his illness. Appellant has given 3 days to file his answer. But the

Appellant had not taken steps to file his answer. Proceedings reveal that the

Appellant or his registered Attorney at law were not present in court on the day

the case was called for answer. Appellant's second argument in the District

Court was due to the negligence of the Attorney at law, to represent him at that

stage was one of the reasons for failure to file his answer.

In this regard I cite the following authorities.

f I

5

The Attorney General vs Herath and another - 2003 2 SlR 162, it was

held that mistake could be excused, negligence of counsel is not a reasonable

ground to set aside the proceedings.

Schanenguivel vs Orr 28 NlR 302 it was held that the Plaintiff must suffer

for the proctors negligence.

l

Ekanayaake vs Gunasekera - 1986 2 SlR page 253 - it was held that even

if the Defendant had succeeded in establishing that the Defendant was

attributable to the negligence of his Attorney at law, the application to have

the exparte judgment set aside must fail.

Ramasami vs Kanawade - 1986 2 CAlR 250 - Negligence of the Attorney

at law was held to be negligence of the party in default.

David Appuhamy vs Yassasi Thero - 1987 1 - 253 it was held certainly the

negligence of the Attorney at law is not a valid excuse.

Section 86(2) of the Civil Procedure Code requires a Defendant lito satisfy

the court that he had reasonable grounds for the default". But I observed that

the Defendant Appellant has not made any submission to support his position.

6

The Appellant has not satisfied the court that he had reasonable grounds for the

default.

After considering the submissions made by Respondent Plaintiff, I am of

the view that THE learned District Judge has acted on the available evidence and

has correctly refused the application to have the exparte judgment and decree

set aside.

For the aforementioned reasons, I don't propose to interfere with the

Order of the learned District Judge, of Gampaha, dated 24.11.1999.

The Appeal is dismissed with costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Salam J.,

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

\ I II I II

f II

~ fI

l

~rtif

I!

r