==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 206 / 2000 F

D.C. Matale No. 2433 / D

Pahala Gedara Sarthchandra Kulasuriya,

No. 6/1, Thalgahagoda, Dullewa,

Matale.

Plaintiff

Vs.

Pahala Gedara Tikirihamy alias Pahala

Gedara Chandrika,

'Laksman Niwasa' Temple Road,

Nirangamuwa, Aluthgama

Mananwatta.

Defendant

And Now Between

Pahala Gedara Tikirihamy alias Pahala

Gedara Chandrika,

'Laksman Niwasa' Temple Road,

Nirangamuwa, Aluthgama

Mananwatta.

Defendant-Appellant

Vs

Pahala Gedara Sarthchandra Kulasuriya,

No. 6/1, Thalgahagoda, Dullewa,

Matale.

Plaintiff -Respondent

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPAL Y ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

UP AL Y ABEYRA THNE, J.

Defendant Appellant is absent and unrepresented

Upendra Walgampaya for the Plaintiff Respondent

06.11.2013

30.01.2014

The Plaintiff Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the

Respondent) instituted the said action against the Defendant Appellant (hereinafter

referred to as the Appellant) seeking for a declaration of nullity of marriage on the

grounds mentioned in the plaint. The Respondent filed answer denying the

averments contained in the plaint and praying for divorce a vinculo matrimonii on

the ground of malicious desertion. The case proceeded to trial on 09 issues. After

trial the learned District Judge delivered a judgment in favour of the Respondent.

Being aggrieved by the said judgment dated 14.02.2000 the Appellant has

preferred the present appeal to this court.

The Respondent has taken up the position that the Appellant has

contracted a second marriage with him and her first marriage has not been

dissolved in law. It seems that at the trial the Appellant has admitted that she was

previously married to one Siberatne and had 03 children by the said marriage. She

3

has further stated that said Siberatne had died. But the Appellant has not produced

the death certificate of said Siberatne to prove the death of her legal husband.

The learned District Judge considering the said evidence has rightly

concluded that the Appellant was not entitled to a judgment as prayed for in her

answer. In the said circumstances I see no reason to interfere with the said

judgment dated 14.02.2000. Therefore I dismiss the appeal of the Appellant

without costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

,

!