==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALSIT

REPUBLIC OF SRI-LANKACA.

Mahepala Edirisinghe of

Meegahatenne.

Plaintiffs/Appellants

M.K. Chandradasa of

Bota lawa la, Meega haten ne.

2(a) Defendant/Respondent.

I No.781/88(f)

D.C.Matugama No.2385/P. I I

Counsel:S.N. Vijithsingh for I i Plaintiff/Appellant. f !

~

K.V.Sirisena for

2nd Defendant/Respondent

Written Submissions: 8-12-09 (Appellant)

8-3-2010(Respondent)

Before: Rohini Marasinghe J.

2

Judgment: 22-2-2011-

Rohini Marasinghe J

The Plaintiff/Appellant hereinafter referred to as the appellant instituted a

partition action to partition the land called IIDawatagahawatte" situated in the

district of kalutara. The said land was surveyed by a commission issued by

court. The said survey plan bearing no 360 dated 10-4-1967 was marked as IIX"

at the trial. There was no dispute that the original owner of this land was one

Allis Appu. The plaintiff contended that the said original owner of the land in

question had two children namely, Podinona and Dochchinona. To the

contrary the contesting defendants alleged that said Allis Appu had 2 more

children by a subsequent marriage. Their names were Balahamy alias

Ungihamy and Podihamy Therefore, the said Allis Appu as contended by the

contesting defendants had 4 children as heirs of Allis Appu. The learned District

Judge held with the contesting defendants. This appeal was filed against that

judgment.

Admittedly, only dispute in this case was whether the said Allis Appu had 2

children alleged by the plaintiff or 4 children as alleged by the 1st and 3rd

plaintiffs/appellants. The parties raised issues on that basis. The issues No 5

was raised by the plaintiff. And issue No's 8 and 9 were raised by the

contesting defendants. And after hearing evidence on this point the learned

trial judge answered the issues of the defendants in their favour. According to

the evidence led before the trial court the witness of the 3rd defendant had

disclosed that the said Allis Appu had married one Soidahamy. And by that

3

marriage there were two children. Thereafter the said Allis Appu had married

one Lokuhamy alias Madduma Hamy. And by the second marriage Allis Appu

had 2 more children. And according to the findings of the learned trial judge

the undivided ~ share of Allis Appu should devolve on all four children as

intestate heirs of Allis Appu. The submissions of the appellants were that the

learned trial judge had erred in coming to this conclusion. As contended by the

appellants, the trial judge had reached this finding without a marriage

certificate of Allis Appu or the birth certificates of his children. However, in the

impugned judgment it is disclosed that the marriage certificates of the two

children which were marked as 1 Vl and 1 V2 had disclosed that the father of

the two children namely Ungihamy and Podihamy was Allis Appu. In addition

to these documents the witness Milix in his evidence had established the fact

that Allis Appu had contracted a second marriage and had 2 children by that

marriage. The page 5 of the judgment deals with this question of fact. The

learned trial judge had preferred to accept the evidence of the 3rd defendant

on this point. Unless there was a gross misdirection by the trial judge of the

oral testimony led at the trial which had resulted in a miscarriage of justice the

appellate court do not interfere with the findings of a trial judge.

As I have dealt with the main ground of appeal, I do not intend to deal with the

preliminary objection raised by the respondent that this appeal had been filed

contrary to the provisions contained in section 754{4} of t he cpc.

The appea[:ssedo

Rohini Marasinghe J

Judge of the Court of Appeal.