==== BLOCKS ==== 

..

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI

LANKA

C.A. Application No. SSS/2007(Writ)

In the matter of an application for Writ

of Mandamus under Article 140 of the

Constitution of the Democratic Socialist

Republic of Sri Lanka

1. Mohamed Cassim Abdul Hameed

No. 27, Rodrigo Lane,

Dehiwela.

2. Adam Lebbe Mohamed Kaleel,

No.26, Main Street, Colombo-01100

3. Yoosuf Lebbe Ahamed Mohideen

No. 38/21, Vijayaraja Mawatha,

Nikape, Dehiwala.

4. Mohamed Zarook Mohamed Ruzaick,

No.212/2, Ganawala Road,

Gonawala, Kelaniya.

5. Mohamed Sherief Abul Haseen,

No. 207/1, Tharul Karam,

Akkaraipattu-02.

1

6. Meera Mohideen Mohamed Cassim,

2

No. 46, Bazaar Street, Badulla.

And nine ( 09) others).

Petitioners.

-Vs-

1. The Inspector General of Police,

Police Head Quarters,

Colombo 00100

2. The Senior Superintendent of

Police, Batticaloa

Batticaloa.

3. The Officer-in-Charge,

Kattankduy Police Station,

Kattankudy.

And five ( OS) others.

Respondents.

Division,

Before:

Counsel:

Argued on

Anil Gooneratne, J &

Deepali Wijesundera, J

M.A. Sumanthiran with Ermiza legal and Ms.

Juan ita Arulananthan for the Petitioner.

S. Rajaratnam DSG for 1st to 3rd Respondents.

M. Nizam Kariappar with M.I.M. lynullah and M.C.M.

Muneer for 4th and 5th Respondents.

14.05.2013

Judgment delivered on 03.06.2013

Anil Gooneratne, J

When this Writ Application was taken up for hearing on 14.05.2013,

learned counsel appearing for the Petitioners informed this Court that the ..2.!!!Y

relief as prayed for in sub para 'F' of the prayer to the Petition would be pursued

and that the other remedies prayed for in the prayer to the petition would not be

3

pursued. As such this application is restricted, to Sub para 'F' of the prayer to the

petition which reads thus:

"Issue a mandate in the nature of Mandamus compelling the 4th and sth

Respondents to return the body of the spiritual leader Shewhul Muflihin MSM

Abdulla (alias Pailvan Wrestler) to the Petitioners particularly the 14th Petitioner.

The learned counsel for the Petitioner submits that the spiritual leader referred to

in sub para 'F' above, died on or about 06.12.2006. Attention of Court was drawn

to Journal Entry 11.02.2010 and the submissions of learned counsel for the 4th

and 5th Respondents as stated therein, that learned Counsel for the 4th and 5th

Respondents have received instructions that body of the spiritual leader was

buried by the people of Kattankudi. Our attention was also drawn to affidavit

dated 03.12.2010 of the 1st Petitioner and more particularly to paras 3and 4 of

same. lt is averred in the said paras that the spiritual leaders body was burnt by

the people of Kattankudy and para 4 states that the body was not burnt but

buried at the cemetery of the Nooraniya Jumma Mosque. Several other bodies

have been buried in the same area and the said body cannot be located.

4

The affidavit of Chairman Kattankdy one Marzork, dated 20.08.2010 reveals that

unauthorized building located at Abdul Latheef Mawatha, Kattankudy was

removed by the officers of the Urban Council and at the time of removal as

aforesaid a body was found. Thereafter the body discovered was buried at an

authorized burial ground after having performed the religious rites. In the

affidavit it is averred that at the time the body was recovered the Senior

Superintendent of the Police and the Officer-in-Charge of the relevant police

station was present.

The material made available to this court does not show a consistent approach as

regards the body of the spiritual leader referred to above. i.e whether the body

was buried or burnt. lt appears to be somewhat a disputed fact, and the affidavit

of Chairman Urban Council makes no reference to an identifiable body, but

merely that a body was found. On the other hand learned counsel for the

Petitioner submitted that the spiritual leader died on or about December 2006. As

at the date of Judgment so many years have lapsed, with uncertainties mentioned

above. Nor have the Petitioner disclosed proper statutory provisions to establish

5

..

the required public duty to invite this Court to consider granting a writ of

Mandamus.

In all the above circumstances we are of the view that this a futile application.

Further when disputed facts are disclosed Court will not interfere. Vide Thajudeen

Vs Sri Lanka Tea Board and another 1981 (2) SLR 471. Per Gunawardana, J.. .. lt is

worth observing that the review procedure is not well suited to the determination

of disputed facts, in Public Interest Law Foundation Vs Central Environmental

Authority and Another 2001 (3) SLR 330. This Court also observe that the

Petitioner has failed to establish the required public and statutory duty to

consider granting such a writ. Therefore we dismiss this application without costs.

&YG~~

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Deepali Wijesundera, J

I agree. r-'J YYlfY1IVIt ~ Judge of the 'Court of Appeal

Kpm/-

6