==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

Hewafonsekage Priyari Sriyantha alies Upul,

Wasantharama Road,

CA.125/2011 Wadduwa.

H.C. (Panadura) No. 1494/2001

Accused-Appellant

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General,

Attorney Generals Department

Colombo 12.

Complainant-Respondent

Before Sisira J. De Abrew, J

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J

Counsel Tennny Fernando for the Accused-Appellant.

Warunica Hettige SC for the AG

Argued &

Decided on 04.11.2013

1

I

f 1 1 i I

Sisira J.De Abrew. J

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases. The accused

appellant in this case was convicted for committing the offence of attempted

murder on a person named Hilary Zoysa. He was also convicted of the

offence of unlawful assembly common object of which was to cause injuries

to said Hilary Zoysa. The prosecution alleged that the accused appellant, the

other three accused (all four accused in the indictment) and the people

unknown to the prosecution have committed the offence.

On the 1 st charge he was sentenced to a term of SIX months simple

imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs. 2500/- carrying a default sentence of

six months simple imprisonment.

On the 2nd count he was sentenced to (the accused appellant-4th accused)a

term of three years rigorous imprisonment, to pay a fine of Rs.5,000 /-

carrying a default sentence of 06 months simple imprisonment and to pay a

sum of Rs.50,000 / -to the victim carrying a default sentence of one year

imprisonment. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence the

accused appellant has appealed to this court. The 1 st, 2nd and 3rd accused

in the indictment have pleaded guilty and the learned High Court Judge has

imposed the suspended sentence on them on the 1st and 2nd counts. No

punishment was imposed on the 2nd count. The fourth accused was tried in

absentia. The facts of this case may be briefly summarised as follows.

2

The 1 st accused on the day of the incident had an exchange of words with

Hilary Soyza at a funeral house. When the victim came home the four

accused and the people unknown to the prosecution entered his land. On

seeing the accused appellant and others unknown to the prosecution

entering the land, Hilary Zoysa tried to jump over the fence.

At this stage the 2nd accused attacked Hilary Zoysa with a sword. The 4th

accused was armed with a weapon at the scene of the offence. He was in

unlawful occupation of Hilary Zoysa's land. When we consider all these

facts, we hold that the presence of the 4th accused at the scene of offence

"V was a participating presence and that the 4th accused had shared~~~ti6n

with the 1st, 2nd and 3rd accused. When we consider all the matters we

affirm the conviction. The question that must be considered is whether the

sentence imposed on the accused appellant was excessive.

The 1st, 2nd and 3rd accused were given suspended sentences. The person

who inflicted injuries namely the 2nd accused was also given suspended

sentence. In our view, the fact that the 4th accused (accused appellant)

absconded from the trial should not be considered as an additional ground

when imposing the punishment.

3

When we consider all these facts, we feel that the justice would be served if

a suspended sentence is imposed. We set aside the term of three years

rigorous imprisonment on the 4th accused (the accused-appellant) in respect

of Count No.02 and sentence him to a term of two years rigorous

imprisonment on count No.02. We direct that the term of six months

rigorous imprisonment imposed on count No.Ol and the term of two years

rigorous imprisonment imposed on count No.02 should run concurrently

and suspend the term of two years rigorous imprisonment(both terms of

imprisonment)for a period of ten years. The fine imposed on the 1 st count

remains unchanged. The fine and the compensation imposed on the 2nd

count remain unchanged. The accused appellant, who is on bail, should

submit to his bail. The operation of suspended period will begin from the

date he surrenders to court or is brought before Court.

Subject to above variation of the sentence, the appeal of the accused

appellant is dismissed. The default sentence imposed by the learned trial

judge should be implemented if the fines and the amount of compensation

are not paid.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Na/-

4