==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A 47/98 (F) D.C. Colombo Case No: 5816/ZL

Suriya Arachchige Karunawathie, No.16/15, Athula Place, Kirillapone, Colombo 15. Presently at No.4/62A, Thalakotuwa Watte, 4th Lane, Polhengoda, Colombo 04.

Defendant-Appellant-Petitioner Vs. 01. Ananda Gamini Gardiye Punchihewa, No.504, Rajagiriya Road, Rajagiriya. 02. Ruwan Charitha Gardiye Punchihewa, No.504, Rajagiriya Road, Rajagiriya.

And Now No.5660, Algonquin Way, Sanjose, California, 95138, USA.

Respondent (Proposed Parties)

..

C.A 47/98 (F)

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED &

DECIDED ON

K. T.CHITRASIRI,J.

1

D.C. Colombo Case No: 5816/ZL

K.T. CHITRASIRI, J

Athula Perera with Ranjith Perera and Chathurani De Silva for the Defendant-Appellant

M.U.M. Ali Sabry P.C with Lasantha Thiranagama For the Plaintiff -Respondents

01.11.2013

Heard learned counsel for the Appellant in support of this appeal.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the judgment of the learned District

Judge of Colombo delivered on 06.01.1998. By that judgment, learned District

Judge decided that the Plaintiff is entitled to the reliefs prayed for in the prayer

to the amended plaint dated 22.11.1989. Learned Counsel for the Appellant

submitted that it is wrong to have rejected the claim of the Defendant -

Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Defendant) made on the basis of

prescription having decided the case in favour of the plaintiff. Refusal to accept

the claim of prescription seems to have been the contradictory nature of the

evidence of the Defendant in relation to her possession to the land in question.

The Defendant in her evidence has stated that the 2nd Plaintiff obstructed

taking her lorry into the disputed land on 12.05.1981. Consequently, there had

been an application made under Section 66 of the Primary Courts Procedure

Act, filed in the Magistrate Court in Colombo shortly thereafter seeking for an

t,jI!I

Ii I

• 2

order as to the possessIOn of the disputed land. [vide proceedings at pages

386,437,462 and 468 in the appeal brief). The case filed in the Magistrate's

Courts bears the number 16112/3/81 and in that action an order had been

made on the 08.07.1981 directing the 2nd Plaintiff in this case who is the 1 st

Defendant-Respondent in that case, to file a civil action. Accordingly, the

learned Magistrate had directed the parties to maintain the peace thereafter.

(Vide at page 562 of the Appeal Brief). Furthermore, the Plaintiffs have dug a

well within the land in question in the year 1988. This action had been filed

immediately after the digging of the well.

The above circumstances show that there had been a dispute

between the parties as to the possession of the land in question since the year

1981. Therefore, it is clear that there had been disturbances taken place as far

as the possession claimed by the Defendant is concerned even if she was in

possession of the particular land. She should have established undisturbed

and uninterrupted possession of the land, independent of the Plaintiffs, for a

period of 10 years previously to the bringing of this action, for her to have

prescriptive title to the land. [Section 3 of the Prescription Ordinance]

This action has been instituted on 21.06.1988. Admittedly, as

mentioned before there had been disturbances created by the plaintiffs to the

possession, alleged to have claimed by the Defendant, during the year 1981.

Therefore, it is clear that the possession claimed by the Defendant had been

physically disturbed within a period of 10 years prior to the filing of this

action. Accordingly, the Defendant is not entitled to claim prescriptive title in

terms of Section 3 of the Prescriptive Ordinance to the land in dispute.

\

Ir1I

3

Moreover, it must be noted that there is hardly any evidence as to

the manner in which the Defendant had her possession in relation to the land

in suit. No evidence is-rorthcoming as-tb-any ptantati6h or any construction

made by the Defendant on this land though it is situated in close proximity to

the place where the Defendant lives. It is only a bare land.

In the circumstances, it is clear that the Defendant has failed to

establish prescriptive rights as required in terms of the provisions contained in

the Prescriptive Ordinance. Therefore, the learned District Judge is correct

when she rejected the claim of the Defendant made on the basis of

prescription. Hence, I am not inclined to interfere with the decision of the

learned District Judge.

For the aforesaid reasons, this appeal is dismissed with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Vkg/-

fI

fIt