==== BLOCKS ==== 

1 I I 1 1

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

1. H. C. Wickremasinghe of

No. 52, Thenna, Matale.

2. M.S. Ratnayake

3. C. P. Nawimana

4. J. M. Nawimana

5. H. N. Nawimana

All of No. 52, Oville Thenna,

Matale.

PETITIONERS

C.A 248/2007 (Writ)

Vs.

1. H. Don Cyril Dissanayake of

No. 97, Tenna, Matale.

2. People's Bank

Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner

Mawatha, Colombo 2.

3. Inquiring Officer,

Land Redemption Department,

People's Bank

No. 18, 1st Floor, Welikada Plaza,

Rajagiriya.

RESPONDENTS

II

i1f fi,! I r,I•,

! f ,I

,I1! f

r,I I I!ffI,

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERATNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Deepali Wijesundera J.

H. Withanachchi with Shantha Karunadhara for the Petitioners

Athula Perera for the 1st Respondent

Kushani D Alwis P.e. with K. Navaratne and D. Abeyasena for the 2nd & 3

rd Respondents

17.09.2013

20.01.2014

2

This is an application for a Writ of Certiorari and Mandamus.

However the prayer to the petition of 27.02.2007 (sub paragraph (i)) has been

incorrectly stated to read as "a mandamus in the nature of writ of certiorari". At

the hearing of this application on 17.9.2013 the Respondents raised a preliminary

objection as regards the maintainability of this application and moved court to

dismiss the application. The basis of the objections is that the Petitioners have

failed to comply with the mandatory provisions of Rule 3(1)(a) & (b) of the Court

of Appeal (Appellate Procedure) Rules 1990 (Petitioner's failure to file material

1

J ! , I I " ! 1 \

3

documents along with the application). A mere glance at the petition of the

Petitioner indicate the following list of documents are in fact not annexed to the

petition.

Pl- plan 2971

P3 - plaint of mortgage suit

P3 - copy of fiscal conveyance

P4 - deed of 2891

P6 - deed of 2099

P12 - recommendation of 3rd Respondent

Pll- proceedings of 29.06.2005

P9 - proceedings tendered but not the entirety

This application should have been rejected. The journal entry of

04.05.2007 indicates that the Petitioners were granted time to produce same but

it had not been done and as such time was granted till 17.05.2009. However on

18.05.2007 this application was supported for notice and court had issued formal

notice. Perusal of the docket I find that by motions of 30.03.2007 & 14.05.2007

documents P11 & P12 had been produced. The motion of 08.03.2007 it is stated

that documents P2, P5, P7 P8 & P9 are produced without the documents

mentioned in the list of documents mentioned above. Document P11 the

purported proceedings of 29.06.2005 seems to be submitted to supply an

i

1 i I

1 !

j j I

I I

4

omissions, but it is certainly not the function of court to inquire as to whether the

entirety of the proceedings are made available. Does documents P11 & P9

constitute all the proceedings held before the 3rd Respondent? It appears to this

court that Petitioner has in a very haphazard manner attempted to smuggle

documents into the record. This court need to comment on the Petitioners role

and conduct, which does not seem to favour the stance taken by him in this

application, due to absence of due diligence.

However before I consider the preliminary objection, it would be

necessary to briefly state the facts relevant to this application. The 1st Respondent

(Dissanayake) was the owner of the property in dispute. By bond 1830 dated

12.05.66 the Respondent mortgaged the property to one Heen Amma for Rs.

3750/-. Owner Dissanayake failed to discharge the mortgage and it was put in

issue in D.C. Matale Case No. 1002. Judgment was entered of consent against the

1st Respondent. In execution of decree property sold at a fiscal sale to Heen

Amma. Sale confirmed by the District Court on 11.09.80. Fiscal conveyance in

favour of Heen Amma executed on 22.09.80 (P3 fiscal conveyance not included in

the record). On or about 29.11.1984 the 1st Respondent made an application to

the Land Redemption Department of the People's Bank under Section 71 of the

Finance Act No. 11 of 1963 to get the property redeemed. However after inquiry,

5

by P7 application of 1st Respondent was rejected and the Bank decided not to

redeem the property due to delay. The 1st Respondent filed a Writ ApplicJtion

earlier (P8) and in that application court held in favour of the 1st Respondent on

21.08.1995.

Inquiry was held in the Land Redemption Department of the 2

nd

Respondent (vide proceedings at P9 -incomplete document). Para 12 of the

petition it is pleaded that on 30.06.2004 the 1st Respondent commenced his

evidence and while the 1st Respondent was under examination in chief, on

31.08.2004 further inquiry was postponed for 18.10.2004. Court notes that

proceeding P10 not produced at any stage of this case. In paragraph 13 of the

petition it is pleaded as follows:

On 29.06.2005, when the inquiry was to be resumed the inquiring officer

observed inter alia: -

(i) That the respondent and the said Sirimanna were absent and

unrepresented.

(ii) That the 1st petitioner was absent but his son was present

(iii) That since the application had been pending from 1984 and since the

parties had shown lack of interest in the case she decided to conclude

the inquiry by calling the parties to file written submissions.

6

The basis of contesting this application is contained in paragraph 18 of the

petition. This court has taken note of the matters pleaded therein. What has been

stressed is that the 3

rd Respondent acted without jurisdiction by allowing the

application without holding a proper inquiry and that there had been a breach of

the principles of natural justice, by the acceptance of untested evidence, in the

manner pleaded by the Petitioner.

The Petitioner in this Writ Application seems to rely only on

documents Pll & p12. Both documents Pll & P12 were in fact tendered to court

at a very late stage and not annexed to the petition. P 12 is the recommendation

of the 3

rd Respondent. Pll seems to be the journal entry or proceedings of

29.06.2005. Perusal of same indicates that except for a person called Rohana

Pathirana, all others inclusive of lawyers were absent and parties unrepresented.

It is stated in Pll that the application was tendered as far back as 18.10.1984 but

parties had been absent from time to time and that it shows a lack of diligence to

proceed with the inquiry and such proceedings to be terminated. It is recorded in

Pll inter alia as follows:

"~ 000 o~ (i6»Ol;®rID® ~) (i~ ~ ~OOoS (iC5)6) cot® ~ ~

~~t»>e>c.od ~ 00 ~ C06> ~ ~,~fJeifJc.o ~~ ~6) ~ tmO®.

(i~O~c6® ecsSsm ~) t»@ (iC5)>m ~tOO ~ ~ t»@ (06) OOC) E><toJcJco

l I f I I I I I

7

O@ ~ ~) ~ e®c.o et~ aa®C) ~oi e~. The 2nd paragraph of PII

express the reasons to terminate proceedings, and state very clearly that it is

difficult to proceed with the inquiry in the circumstances that prevailed at that

time. However parties had been given the opportunity, to file written submissions.

The proceedings or journal entry referred to as PI 0 had never been

produced by the Petitioner. It is very apparent that the entirety of the inquiry notes

or proceedings are not tendered to court. In the light of the observations made in

P 11 by the 3 rd Respondent it is important to have the full set of proceedings. r am

unable to accept the views of the Petitioner that based on P 11 and P 12 alone this

application could be decided. On the other hand it is a bad practice to decide cases

in the absence of proper documentation, being made available to court. Petitioner

having not acted with due diligence as recorded in P 11, cannot be heard to

complain of jurisdictional issue or a breach of natural justice as the Petitioner had

himself failed to act diligently before the inquiring officer. Further this court

cannot decide on an important issue as jurisdiction or natural justice in the absence

of the entire proceedings being made available to court. PI I which is made

available to court is a photocopy and the seal affixed therein is hardly legible with

the hand written words 'true copy'. Failure of the Petitioner to make available the

entire set of proceedings gives rise to certain doubts as regards the position taken

up by the Petitioner. In a case of this nature it is equally important and relevant to

{I

\

8

consider an issue from all perspectives. Cases should not be decided only on

isolated bear facts. Petitioner has also failed to provide an acceptable reason or

explanation not to produce the entirety of the proceedings. This court need to

interpret the Appellate Courts Procedure Rules very strictly, and certainly not

leniently. The position of the Respondents should not be dismissed by merely

pointing the finger to be highly technical. It is not technical in the manner

submitted by the Petitioner. Non compliance of the Appellate Procedure Rules

would be fatal and I uphold the preliminary objections of the Respondents and

dismiss this application.

However before I conclude I would also incorporate the following

authorities in this judgment some of which were in fact cited by the Petitioners,

and the Respondents.

Kiriwanthe v. Navaratne (1990-2 SLR 393 per M.D.H. Fernando J.

The weight of authority thus favours the view that while all these Rules must be complied with

the law does not regulate or permit an automatic dismissal of the application or appeal of the

party in default. The consequence of non-compliance (by reason of impossibility or for any other

reason) is a matter falling within the discretion of the Court, to be exercised after considering the

nature of the default, as well as the excuse or explanation therefor, in the context of the object of

the particular Rule. In the case before us, the Court of Appeal was clearly wrong in upholding

the preliminary objection based on Rule 46.

His Lordship, Kulatunga, J. while delivering a separate Judgment observed "in exercising its

discretion the Court will bear in mind the need to keep the channel of procedure open for justice

1 1

1 1

.. 9

to flow freely and smoothly and the need to maintain the discipline of the law. At the same time

the Court will not permit mere technicalities to stand in the way of the Court doing justice".

Imperative Nature of Rules

Shanmugavadivu Vs. Kulathilaka 2003 (1) SLR 215(SC)

The requirements ofmles 3 (1)(a) and 3 (1) (b) are imperative. In the circumstances of the case

the Court of Appeal has not discretion to excuse the failure of the Plaintiff to comply with the

rules.

Karunasekara Vs. Rev Chandananda (2004) 2 SLR 82 and 83

In the statement of Objections of the Plaintiff judgment creditor Respondent, the Petitioner's

failure to file the necessary documents has been specifically raised but even thereafter the

Petitioner has not taken steps to file those documents. Thus there is a clear failure to comply with

the mandatory provisions of rule 3(1 )(b) of the Appeal Rules 1990.

Perera Vs. Perera (2001) 3 SLR 30

The absence of the originals of the documents material to the order or duty certified copies or in

the event of inability to obtain such documents and the absence of satisfactory explanation of

such non-compliance, is fatal.

Urban Development Authority Vs. Ceylon Entertainments Limited & Others (2004) 1 SLR

95

\ i I f I I

Il I

~ Ii

rI I

Ii

\,

· \ 10

The appellant failed to file the Court of Appeal duly certified copies of the material documents as

required by rules 3(b) read together with 3(a) of the Supreme Court Rules. It is settled law that

Rule 3 of the Supreme Court rules must be adhered to.

In all the above circumstances it is apparent that the Petitioner's

failure to comply with the Court of Appeal (appellate Procedure) Rules 19~O is

fatal since same is imperative and mandatory. Further we find that sub paragraph

(i) of the prayer to the petition, vague and meaningless. As regards sub paragraph

(iii) of the prayer to the petition a Writ of Mandamus cannot in any event issue

against the 3rd Respondent who has not been named. Nor can court direct to issue a

mandamus in a particular way i.e to dismiss the application, in the absence of

explaining the public statutory duty. The grounds urged in any event cannot be the

basis for issue of the prerogative writs prayed, writs being issued in the discretion

of court. As such we uphold the preliminary objections and dismiss this application

without costs.

Preliminary objection upheld. Application dismissed,

Q;YX~

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

I agree.

r-/ d ~j~

Deepali Wijesundera J.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

I! I I

\ i

t , , r I

\ Ii !

f II, t I

~ i II I

I II i I