==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Aliyar Iqubal

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

C.A. 07/2010

H.C. Trincomalee HCT/193/2007

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney-General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

RESPONDENT

Anil Silva P.c. for the Accused-Appellant

Dilan Ratnayake s.s.c. for the Respondent

25.03.2014

29.05.2014

1

it!I

~

fItl

~

IIi!

~1,!! f,I1

2

GOONERATNE J.

In this case two accused were indicted for murder and convicted and

sentenced in the High Court of Trincomalee. Petition of appeal dated 24.3.2010

was filed and the prayer to the petition pleads to set-aside the conviction and

sentence imposed on 18.3.2010. It appears that only the 1st Accused-Appellant

preferred an appeal. In the body of the petition, it is pleaded that trial Judge on

18.3.2010 convicted the Appellant for murder and imposed a death sentence. The

brief is in the Tamil language and same has been translated into English. However

based on the translation counsel on either side consented to argue this appeal.

The Journal Entry and proceeding (translated) of 18.3.2010 indicates

that the charge of murder was reduced to culpable homicide not amounting to

murder (Section 297). 1st Accused was sentenced to 12 years rigorous

imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 5000/- which carried a default sentence of 6

months R.I. The 2nd Accused was sentenced to 2 years R.I suspended for 7 years

and a fine of Rs. 5000/- (in default a sentence of 6 months R.I). We could clearly

see the discrepancy in the petition of appeal and the above Journal Entry.

ft

itI

fI

3

The facts of this case as far as I could gather from the translation

made available is that the incident occurred at about 6.30/7/00 p.m. There has

been a political meeting and the electricity supply had been cut suddenly and

over that there was a commotion and the people gathered at the meeting had

expressed the view that it was the 1st Accused who was responsible for cutting

down the electricity supply. The material made available was that people

gathered fought and the 1st Accused had fled the scene and returned to the place

of incident after prayers, in a white van, with a weapon (T 56 gun) and fired

several shots which ultimately hit the deceased.

When I examine the proceedings, I observe that the way evidence

had been led and presented in the High Court is very unsatisfactory. The eye

witness says the 1st Accused fired several gunshots. He also states the 1st Accused

shot the deceased. Prior to the alleged shooting incident the material suggest that

the 1st Accused was assaulted may be by the deceased for disrupting electricity.

The trial Judge has considered the version of the Accused and told that evidence

given on behalf of the Accused is not trustworthy and had been fabricated. The

judgment include a narration of evidence of eye witness which does not appear to

be properly recorded. The charge is one of murder which entail a capital

punishment. The trial Judge had reduced the charge of murder to culpable

Ii III

f I

f , l t: f II

~ i ~-

I 1 f I ,

~ I ,

j

I I I I I I

4

homicide not amounting to murder. I cannot find the reasons recorded to do so.

The evidence placed before the High Court appears to be highly unreliable. Trial

Judge emphasis on the Accused version of the case, and gives the impression that

he had erred in convicting the Accused. There is no proper analysis of the

evidence. In all the above circumstances we are not satisfied with the prosecution

version and it is doubtful whether the prosecution has proved the case beyond

reasonable doubt. As such we set aside the conviction and sentence and allow the

appeal.

Appeal allowed.

@

;£J(~..a ( ~ J GE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

I

~i fIi~ r

~ftt