==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

In the matter of an Application for a

mandate in the nature of Writ of

Certiorari under Article 140 of the

Constitution.

Lanka Marine Services (Private) Limited,

69, Walls Lane,

Colombo 15.

Petitioner

CA. Writ Application No: 609/2008 Vs

BEFORE

COUNSEL

1. K.M.5arathchandara,

No. 53/2, Nawala Road,

Nugegoda.

And thirty nine (39) others.

Respondents.

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J.(P/CA)

Maithri Wickremasinghe with R. Jayathunga

for the Petitioner

Milinda Gunathilake SSC

for the 4th Respondent.

D .H.5iriwardena

for the 5th to 10th ,12th to 17th 19th ,22nd ,24th to 28th

30th ,35th , 37th to 39th Respondents

Argued on

Decided on

S.Sriskandarajah J

31.05.2011

12.12.2011

2

An Industrial dispute was referred by the Minister of Labour to the 1st

Respondent Arbitrator under Section 4(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act. The

industrial dispute is as follows:

"Whether the thirty six (36) employees referred to in the attached schedule

who were attached to the Lanka Marine Services (Pvt) Ltd while they were

serving in the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation and now retired from service of

the said company are entitled to receive half months salary for each year of

service as service benefit of the Thrift Society that was enjoyed by them in the

Corporation and if so entitled what quantum of payment should be granted

to each of them as service benefits".

The Petitioner submitted that the evidence led before the arbitrator revealed

that the Petitioner was incorporated on the 1st of March 1993 consequent upon

the incorporation of the Petitioner, the bunkering business of the Ceylon

Petroleum Corporation (4th Respondent) was transferred to the Petitioner.

Along with the transfer of the said business, several employees of the 4th

Respondent including the persons named as party of the first part in the

arbitration were appointed as employees of the Petitioner with effect from 1st

April 1993 by letter addressed to them by the 4th Respondent and by the

Petitioner. They were so employed on the same terms and conditions as that

enjoyed by them as employees of the 4th Respondent.

The Ceylon Petroleum Corporation Thrift Society Limited was a society

incorporated under the Societies Ordinance whose membership was limited

to employees of the 4th Respondent. The constitution of the said Society

3

restricts the membership of the said society to the permanent employees of

the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation. A permanent employee of the Petroleum

Corporation by an application for membership could join as a member of the

Ceylon Petroleum Corporation Thrift Society Limited. The members were

required to pay a monthly contribution based on the salary of such member.

The constitution of the said society specifically provides that any member of

the said society resigns, retires, discontinued or dismissed from employment

in the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation shall ceased to be a member of the

Society forthwith. The said Constitution also provides that a member who

ceases to be a member is entitled to be paid the balance of his contribution

and lump sum contribution and interest thereon after recovery of all dues to

the Society.

The Petitioner contended that the persons referred to as party of the first part

in the said reference were members of The Ceylon Petroleum Corporation

Thrift Society Limited while they were in employment of the 4th Respondent.

In terms of the constitution of the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation Thrift

Society Limited they ceased to be members of the said society in 1993 on

becoming employees of the Petitioner on 1st April 1993.

When they ceased to be members of the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation Thrift

Society Limited on 1st April 1993 they received their entitlement from the

funds of the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation Thrift Society Limited in terms of

the Constitution of the said society.

The 5th to the 39th Respondents admitted that they received the said sum from

the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation Thrift Society Limited. These Respondents

position was that their memberships were not lapsed and that they expected

4

the deduction of their monthly contributions to the Thirift Socity Ltd from

their salaries but it were not done due to the laps of the Petitioner.

It is in evidence that the said Respondents received lump sum contribution

from the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation Thrift Society Limited at the time

they resume duties with the Petitioners. It is also in evidence and an admitted

fact that the said Respondents had not paid their monthly contribution to the

Ceylon Petroleum Corporation Thrift Society Limited after they assumed

duties in the Petitioner Company. As this is not a statutory payment the

Petitioner is not bound to make this payment unless the said Respondents

request the Petitioner to make the payment.· Even though the said

Respondents were aware that the said contributions were not deducted from

their salaries by the Petitioner they did not take any steps to pay the said

contribution. By their conduct the said Respondents ceased to be members of

the said Society.

The arbitrator without taking these facts into consideration has relied on the

evidence of an employee of the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation who was

absorbed to the Petitioner company and retired on 6th November 2002 was

paid a gratuity from the Thrift Society. This witness in his evidence said that

the said sum was paid on the basis that he was in continuous employment

with the Petroleum Corporation and with the Petitioner until 2002 at the time

the Petitioner Company was privatised. On this evidence alone the arbitrator

has come to the conclusion that the 36 employees of the party of the 1st part

who retired between 01.04.1993 to 31.08.1998 were left out unfairly of their

Thrift Society benefits.

The above payment was explained by the Petitioner. The Petitioner company

was privatised on 20.08.2002 at that time the Board of the Ceylon Petroleum

Corporation determined that employees of the Petitioner who were in

5

employment at the time of the privatisation would be paid from the 4th

Respondent's fund half months wages (after deducting the sum already paid

to them from the funds of the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation Thrift Society

Limited and their contribution) for each year of service from the date they

became employees of the 4th Respondent until the date the shares were

transferred consequence upon the privatisation. 90% of the shares of the

Petitioner were transferred to John Keels Holdings Limited by share sale and

purchase agreement dated 20th August 2002 and 10% of the shares reserved

for and transferred to the employees of the Petitioner. The Petitioner

contended that the said payments were made for and on behalf of the 4th

Respondent on a decision made by the 4th Respondent and not as a payment

by the Petitioner.

None of the persons named as party of the first part in the said arbitration

were in employment at the time (i.e 20th August 2002) the 4th Respondent

made the said decision to make payment to its employees who are serving in

the Petitioner Company in lieu of privatisation. The complaint which led to

the reference to arbitration was made long after the retirement of all the

persons named as party of the first part, they retired between 01.04.1993 to

31.08.1998. But in any event the Petitioner cannot be held liable to make

payment to the said party of the first part of the said sum paid to the other

employees on a decision made by the 4th Respondent in lieu of privatisation.

This sum was not paid consequence of any term or condition In the

employment but was made by the 4th Respondent voluntarily to the

employees who were in service at the time of privatisation in 2002.

The duty of an arbitrator is to make an award that is just and equitable.

Rajaratnam J when explaining the requirements of just and equitable order in

Ceylon Tea Plantations Co.Ltd v Ceylon Estate Staffs' Union SC 211/72 SC minutes

15.05.1974 observed:

6

"A just and equitable order no doubt is an order that the tribunal is

empowered and obliged to make as may appear to the tribunal just and

equitable. But it is an order that can be reviewed by this court on the

acceptance of the findings of the Tribunal and if this order has been made

without any consideration for the employer or the management and the

business efficiency of the particular industry. A just and equitable order must

be fair by all parties. It never means the safeguarding of the interest of the

workmen alone."

In the given circumstances the award made by the arbitrator is without any

basis as this amounts to an error in the face of the record. I quash the said

award dated 30th April 2008 published in the Gazette No 1,555/22 dated 26th

June 2008. The application of the Petitioner for a writ of certiorari is allowed

without costs.

/' //L .. -"'President of the Court of Appeal