==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for Writ of

Mandamus in terms of Article 140 of the

Constitution.

*******

C.A. (Writ) Application No.246/2007

1

1. Karunanayake Liyanage Marian

Roshani Perera.

No. 57, Anderson Road, Negombo.

2. Mahipala Mudalige Winnifreda

Paris.

No.57 A, Anderson Road, Negombo.

3. Panambarage Nihal Laxman

Vs

Fernando.

No.14,Kimbulapitiya Rd, Negombo.

PETITIONER

1. Negombo Municipal Council

Municipal Council Office,

Negombo.

2. Nimal Lanza

Mayor

Negombo Municipal Council

Negombo.

)

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

2

3. Hon.Janaka Bandara Tennakoon

Minister of Land and Land

Development

Ministry of Land and Land

Development

Sampathpaya, Battaramulla.

4. Divisional Secretary

Negombo Divisional Secretariat

Negombo.

RESPONDENTS

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

: Ruwantha Cooray for the

Petitioners

Widura Ranawaka with Menaka

Warnapura for the 1 st and 2nd

Respondents.

Yuresha Fernando DSG for the

3rd and 4th Respondents.

: 14th July, 2014

: 10th October, 2014

Oeepali Wijesundera J.

Municipal Council of Negombo has passed a resolution to acquire

the land which is the subject matter of this application to develop the

Public Library on 17/12/1998 (P13). A notice under Sec. 2 of the Land

Acquisition Act was published and a declaration under Sec. 5(1) of the

Land Acquisition Act stating that the land was required for a public

purpose was published by the Minister of Lands (P18) and thereafter

Sec. 38(a) notice was published. The petitioners to this application did

not handover possession and an action was filed in the Magistrates

Court and an order was issued by court to deliver possession to the

Divisional Secretary. The petitioners thereafter have filed an action to

stay the Magistrate's order and another application to quash the Sec. 38

order in the Court of Appeal. The application for the stay order was

dismissed and the Divisional Secretary has taken over the land in April

2003. Steps have been taken to award compensation under Sec. 17

and the petitioners have appealed against the award to the appeals

board. (3R2 and 3R3).

The application filed in the Court of Appeal by the petitioners to

quash the Sec. 38 order was withdrawn by them (P64) on 15/11/2006.

Thereafter they have filed the instant application on 05/02/2007 seeking

3

a mandate in the nature of a writ of Mandamus directing the 3rd

respondent to divest the land in dispute under Sec. 39 A of the Land

Acquisition Act.

The learned counsel for the petitioners submitted that the land

which was acquired for a public purpose has not been used for such

purpose and only a statue of Jesus Christ has been erected and no

library was built or commenced work to build the library building.

Therefore under Sec. 39A the 3rd respondent could exercise the duty

caste upon him under Sec. 39 A to divest the said land. The petitioners

submitted that the 3rd respondent has the discretion to determine a

question pertinent to divesting and that this discretion can be judicially

exercised to arrest the injustice by quashing the vesting order and

issuing a writ of Mandamus compelling the 3rd respondent to divest the

land. He cited the judgments in De Silva Vs Athukorala Minister of

Irrigation and Mahaweli Development (1993) 1 SLR 283, Rashid Vs

Rajitha Senaratne Minister of Land and others 2004 (1) SLR 312 and

submitted that in both these cases a Writ of Mandamus was issued to

compel the Minister to make an order under Sec. 39A to divest the

property.

4

In both cases it was brought to the notice of court by documents

and evidence that the land which was acquired for public purpose was

not made use of or the public benefit had "faded away".

The petitioner's counsel also cited the judgment in Horana

Plantations Limited Vs Anura Kumara Dissanayake and Others 2012

B.L.R.P. 164. In this case it has been stated that it is the duty of the

Minister to act with care since he is the final authority regarding the

decision to acquire land under Land Acquisition Act.

The petitioners' counsel submitted that their actions did not cause

inordinate or unexplained delays to the respondents. The petitioners

stated that the respondents did not make use of the land acquired for a

public purpose therefor the land has to be divested under Sec. 39A.

The learned counsel for the respondents submitted that the land

was acquired for the building of a Public Library and funds were

allocated for same (2R5 and 2RS). Petitioners were awarded

compensation under Sec. 17 of the Land Acquisition Act (3R2 and

3R3). While this was in progress the petitioners have filed two writ

applications in the Court of Appeal. The respondents' counsel stated

5

that the land was used for developing the public library which was

stoped by the petitioners by obtaining a stay order from the Court of

Appeal.

The respondents stated the land was required to construct a new

library for the use of large number of university students and students

from Higher Education Institutes and other students who wished to

make use of the library and that they needed space to sit and refer

books. The respondents submitted that there was no other suitable land

available in the Negombo Municipal Council area to build the said

library. Citing the judgment in De Silva Vs Athukorala 1993 1 SLR 183 at

291 the respondents counsel submitted that once the Minister makes a

decision under Sec. 5 (1) of the said act that the land was required for a

public purpose that decision cannot be agitated by way of a writ.

Citing the judgments in Kingsley Fernando Vs Dayaratne and

Others 1991 (2) SLR 129 and Mendis Vs Jayaratne 19972 SLR 220 the

respondents submitted to demand a reversal of the acquisition process

set out in Sec. 39A or 39(1) the previous owners will have to show the

land was no longer required for a public purpose.

6

The learned counsel for the respondents citing the judgment in

Amarasinghe Vs /ayathilaka Director General of Customs and Others

2004 (2) SLR 169 submitted that where a person whose land has been

acquired and considering the fact that there is no statutory right to have

the land divested a writ of Mandamus cannot be used to compel the

Minister to exercise his discretion in a particular way.

The counsel for the respondents submitted a small portion that is

30 feet by 40 feet has been given to erect a statue of Jesus Christ at the

request of the Parish Priest but the land belongs to the Municipal

Council which is clearly shown in P59 marked and produced by the

petitioners. The respondents submitted that the petitioners document

P59 show that the public purpose is still in existence.

The respondents stated that the inordinate delay mentioned by

the petitioners was caused by the petitioners themselves by the

institution of applications and obtaining stay orders in the Court of

Appeal. Therefore the respondents submitted the delay that has

occasioned cannot be considered as an abandonment of the project to

build the public library.

7

i,I!.!

~i

r

lII

!. 1iIt!

r!I! I

t ii

On the submissions made by both parties and the documents

submitted this court has to decide whether there was a public purpose

for acquiring the said land, if so is it still in existence if not can the 3rd

respondent divest the said land under Sec. 39A of the Land Acquisition

Act and can this court issue a writ of Mandamus to compel the 3rd

respondent to divest the land.

Sec. 39 A (1) and (2) reads thus;

(1). Notwithstanding that by virtue of an Order under

section 38 (hereafter in this section referred to as a "vesting

Order") any land has vested absolutely in the State and

actual possession of such land has been taken for or on

behalf of the State under the provisions of paragraph (a) of

section 40, the Minister may, subject to subsection (2), by

subsequent Order published in the Gazette (hereafter in this

section referred to as a "divesting Order'') divest the State of

the land so vested by the aforesaid vesting Order.

(2). The Minister shall prior to making a divesting Order

under subsection (1) satisfy himself that-

(a) no compensation has been paid under this Act to

any person or persons interested in the land in

8

relation to which the said divesting Order is to be

made:

(b) the said land has not been used for a public

purpose after possession of such land has been taken

by the State under the provisions of paragraph (a) of

section 40;

(c ) no improvements to the said land have been

effected after the Order for possession under

paragraph (a) of section 40 had been made; and

(d) the person or persons interested in the said land

have consented in writing to take possession of such

land immediately after the divesting Order is

published in the Gazette.

The petitioners have not shown that the land acquired has not

I

been used for a public purpose. As stated by the respondents the

petitioners have prevented the respondents developing the land

I

therefore they can not go on the basis that the land was not used for a

public purpose. Petitioners have been allocated compensation and they

have complained it is not sufficient. The documents P1 to P69 marked

9 i I

by the petitioners does not show the public purpose have ceased or the

land is not used for a public purpose.

All 3 judgments cited by the petitioners and mentioned above are

not disputed but they are not applicable to the instant case. The

petitioners did not show that the land acquired was not used for a public

purpose. In fact the delay in building the said public library was due to

the petitioners filing one case after the other.

Both actions filed prior to the instant application in the Court of

Appeal have been dismissed and the present application has been filed

over seven years after the acquisition.

On perusal of the documents and the submissions made it can

be seen that there is a valid public purpose and the acquisition was in

the public interest. A library is to be built for the students of the area who

are the future of this country. To develop a country the youth have to be

educated, a library is a necessary part of that education. Therefore it

can be said that there is an urgent public need for a library for the

benefit of the students of that area.

10

For the aforestated reasons I decide that this is not a fit and

proper case where a writ of Mandamus should be issued compelling the

3rd respondent to divest the land which is the subject matter of this

application. Application of the petitioners is dismissed with costs fixed at

Rs. 50,0001=.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

11