==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

1. Devayalage Upaneris 2. Devayalage Ariydasa 3. Devayalage Herathhamy

Plaintiff-Appellants

Vs. CA Appeal No: 136/96 (F) DC A vissawella 16181lL

Before

Counsel

1. Devayalage Piyasena 2. Devayalage Wimalasuriya 3. Devayalage Puransina ( deceased) Defendant-Respondents Devayalage Piyasena Devayalage Wimalasuriya

Substituted 3rd Defendant-Respondent Sisira de Abrew J & Anil Gooneratne J

Lakshman Perera with U. Walagampaya for the appellants PL Gunawardene with KWS Karaliyadda for the respondents.

Argued on : 26.11.20] 0 and 29.11.2010

Decided on: 3.02.2011

Sisira de Abrew J.

Plaintiff appellants filed this case III the District Court of

\

2

A vissawella to get a declaration of title to 113 rd of share of the land described

in the schedule to the plaint. The learned District Judge, by her judgment

dated 24.4.96, dismissed the action of the plaintiff appellants. Being

aggrieved by the said judgment, the plaintiff appellants have appealed to this

court.

Parties have admitted that Devayalage Babanis· who was the

original owner of undivided 3/4th share of the land in suit transferred his

rights by deed No. 21228 dated 19.7.1911 to Andiris, Suta alias Sutan and

Saima and that Sutan died on 22.10.1980.

Three plaintiffs took up the position that they were the children of

Sutan, by his 1 st marriage. Defendant Respondent took up the position that

after the death of 1 st wife of Sutan, he, in 1949, started living with Puransina

as husband and wife and that during this period she gave birth to six children

whose father is Sutan. In 1970 the marriage between Sutan and Puransina

was registered. Puransina, the 3rd defendant took up the position took up the

position that the land in question was gifted to her six children by Sutan by

deed No. 1952 attested by Milroy Jayawardene on 3.6.1974. The case

proceeded on following six issues.

1. Are the plaintiffs the legal heirs of Sutan?

2. Did the plaintiffs derive rights of Sutan after his death?

3. If the above two issues are answered in favour of the plaintiff, are the

plaintiff entitled to the relief claimed?

4. Did Sutan transfer his rights to the defendants in this case by deed

No.1952 attested by Milroy Jayawardene on 3.6.1974?

5. If the issue No.4 is answered in the affirmative can the plaintiff

maintain this action?

3

6. Is deed NO.1952 dated 3.6.1974 produced by the defendant a genuine

deed in fact executed by Sutan?

Learned District Judge answered issue No 6 in the affirmative.

Learned counsel for the plaintiff appellant complained that answering issue

No.6 in the affirmative was wrong. He submitted that Sutan never came and

signed the deed NO.1952 and that it was not proved. He submitted that to

prove a deed, the evidence of the Notary Public and two attesting witnesses

was not sufficient. I now advert to this contention. It is relevant at this stage

to mention here that the EQD could not express a definite opinion about the

handwriting in the signature of Sutan appearing in deed NO.1952 and other

documents sent to him.

Learned counsel for the appellant contended that in 1949 Sutan was

gored by a bull and as a result of this attack he was stooping and walked

with aid of a walking stick. To strengthen this contention he relied on the

evidence the 3rd plaintiff. Rev.Premaratne who said that in 1949 his father

was gored by a bull and as a result of this attack he was stopping. His

evidence was challenged by the defendants when a suggestion was made to

him that he being a Buddhist priest was uttering falsehood, he did not reply.

He was the only person who spoke about Sutan's stoop. Both attesting

witnesses to the deed NO.1952 Aranolishamy and Galadeniya who knew

Sutan said that he could walk properly. Galadeniya who was the clerk of the

Notary said that Sutan was a hefty man who could walk properly. In fact

when learned counsel who appeared for the plaintiff at the trial suggested to

the witness Aranolishamy that Sutan could not walk due to defect in the

body, he denied this suggestion (vide page 112 of the brief).

r 1

4

Puransina who claimed that she got six children from Sutan was

not questioned about Sutan's stoop. According to Puransina, she was living

with Sutan from 1949 to 1980. But learned counsel who appeared for the

plaintiff did not question her on this matter. In my view she was the best

witness to answer this question (whether Sutan was stooping). Failure on the

part of the plaintiff to question Puransina about the alleged stoop suggests

that thee is no truth in the allegation that Sutan was stooping. Learned

District Judge has placed more reliance on the evidence led by the

defendants. When I consider all these matters, I hold the view that there is

no sufficient evidence to conclude that Sutan was stooping at the time he

signed the deed.

Learned Counsel for the appellant submitted that to prove a deed

the evidence of the Notary and two attesting witnesses was not sufficient. In

support of his contention he cited Solicitor General V s A vaumma 71 NLR

512. In that case Court observed that "in a criminal case involving the

offence of forgery of a deed of transfer of immovable property, the two

attesting witnesses of the execution of the deed were the 3rd and 4th accused.

The prosecution, as its contention was that it was not competent for it to call

the two attesting witnesses, sought to call, as witnesses, an owner of the land

and the notary who attested the deed. Counsel for the defence objected to the

production of the deed on the ground of a lack of compliance with section 68

of the Evidence Ordinance. The trial Judge upheld the objection and

acquitted the accused."

Held; that section 68 of the Evidence Ordinance had no application to a

criminal case where the prosecution had made the attesting witnesses also

5

accused in the case and, far from seeking to use the deed as evidence, was

impugning it as a forgery committed as a result of the abetment of the said

offence on the part of the witnesses and the vendee. In such case, ·the

elements of the charges which have to be established by the prosecution may

be established in any of the ways permitted by law."

When I consider the above judicial decision and the facts of this case,

I hold that the above judicial decision has no application to the contention

raised by learned counsel for the appellant.

Since learned counsel foe the appellant contended that deed

No.1952 was not proved and that the evidence of the Notary and two

attesting witness was not sufficient to prove a deed, I must consider whether

the deed No.1952 had been proved. In order to find an answer to this

question I must consider Section 68 of the Evidence Ordinance which reads

as follows: "If a document is required by law to be attested, it shall not be

used as evidence until one attesting witness at least has been called for the

purpose of proving its execution, if there be an attesting witness alive, and

subject to the process of the court and capable of giving evidence."

Is a deed of gift required by law to be attested? Answer to this

question is found in Section 2 of the Prevention of Frauds Ordinance which

reads as follows: "No sale, purchase, transfer, assignment, or mortgage of

land or other immovable property, and no promise, bargain, contract, or

agreement for effecting any such object, or for establishing any security,

interest, or incumbrance affecting land or other immovable property (other

than a lease at will, or for any period not exceeding one month), nor any

6

contractor agreement for the future sale or purchase of any land or other

immovable property, and no notice, given under the provisions of the

Thesawalamai Pre-emption Ordinance, of an intention or proposal to sell . . any undivided share or interest in land held in joint or common ownership,

shall be of force or avail in law unless the same shall be in writing and

signed by the party making the same, or by some person lawfully authorized

by him or her in the presence of a licensed notary public an two or more

witnesses present at the same time, and unless the execution of that writing,

deed, or instrument be duly attested by such notary and witnesses."

It is clear from the above section that deed of gift is a document

which is required by law to be attested. Has the deed No.1952 been proved?

In order to answer this question I would like to consider a judgment of

Bonser CJ. In Amolis Vs Mutu Manike 2NLR 199 Boncer CJ held: "In

order to prove a mortgage bond attested by a notary and two witnesses it is

not necessary that the notary and both the attesting witnesses should be

called. It may be proved by the evidence of only one witness although as a

matter of precaution it may be advisable in many cases to call the attesting

witnesses." His Lordship in the said judgment remarked thus: Mr.Drieberg,

the Acting District Judge of Ratnapura, held that as a matter of law it was

necessary to call both the attesting witnesses. I am unable to agree with that

statement of law. A deed can be proved by the evidence of one witness,

though as a matter of precaution it may be advisable in many cases to call all

the witnesses."

ERSR Coomaraswamy in his book titled "The law of evidence

Vol.ll(book1) at page 108 states: "The object of requiring attestation by

7

more than one witness is to guard against the difficulties arising out of death,

unavailability, absence from jurisdiction and other causes. If one witness is

called and he speaks to the attestation, the document is prima facie proved."

Applying the principles laid down in the above legal literature, I

hold that a deed can be proved by the evidence of one attesting witness. I

therefore reject the contention that the evidence of Notary and two attesting

witnesses is not sufficient to prove a deed. In the instant case the two

attesting witnesses and the notary gave evidence about the execution of deed

No 1952. Both attesting witnesses said that Sutan who was known to them

signed the deed. For these reasons, I hold that deed No.1952 has been

proved. For the above reasons, I hold that issue No.6 has been correctly

answered by the learned trial Judge.

Learned counsel who appeared for the plaintiff appellant at the

trial framed following additional issues in his written submission.

1. Is the deed No.1952 dated 3.6.1974 a deed ofgift7

2. Have the donees accepted the gift given on deed No.1952 dated

3.6.19747

Donees have not signed the deed. Learned counsel therefore contended that

this was not a valid gift. He cited the judgment of the Court of Appeal in

Bertie Fernando Vs Missie Fernando [1986] lSLR page211 wherein the

court held: "The burden of proving acceptance of a deed of gift is on the

party claiming under it. Where there has been no valid acceptance of a deed

of gift, the donor is perfectly entitled to revoke it even unilaterally and make

another disposition."

• 8

In the present case the learned trial judge considered the two

issues and observed that deed No.1952 dated 3.6.1974 was a deed of gift.

There is' evidence that Puransina and her children continued to occupy the

property in the deed of gift. The learned trial judge has considered these

matters in page 8 and 9 of the judgment. In my view thee is evidence to

answer the said two issues in the affirmative. When the above issues are

answered in the affirmative plaintiff's case should fail. However the learned

trial judge has remarked that these two issues were not relevant to the case.

When I consider the evidence and the judgment of the learned

trial Judge I hold the view that there is no reason to interfere with the

judgment of the learned trial Judge.

F or the reasons stated above, I dismiss the appeal of the plaintiff

appellant with costs.

Judge of the Cou of Appeal.

Anil Gooneratne J

I agree.

(j1$~Q~

Judge of the Court of Appeal.