==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Weerasekera Arachchilage Piyaratne

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

C.A 59/2009

(H.C. Ratnapura 101-1999)

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDNET

Indika Mallawarachchi for the Accused-Appellant

Jayantha Jayasuriya P.c., A.S.G. with Ayesha Jinasena D.S.G.

For the Complainant-Respondent

30.06.2014

16.09.2014

~ t

~ I

I!IIIi !

II

tit

\

2

GOONERATNE J.

Accused-Appellant was indicted for committing rape on or about

08.03.1997 on one Disna Kumari who is mentally or physically disabled, an

offence punishable in terms of Section 364(2)(F) of the Penal Code as

amended. Accused was convicted and sentenced to 18 years rigorous

imprisonment and fined Rs. 10,000/-, which carries a default sentence of one

year rigorous imprisonment and compensation in a sum of Rs. 10,000/- which

also carries a default sentence of one year rigorous imprisonment.

In brief the case of the prosecution as revealed in evidence was that

the victim had gone for a bath with her sister. On the way the Accused had

dragged and assaulted her. Victim explains as 'e>~>D ~ CSXS> CSXS> er~c!(5)6)

C«,o)'. She was taken to a place which is described by the prosecutrix as 'C!6@@

@CS>D (fC65 C«,o)'. Thereafter she had been raped by the Accused-Appellant.

The victim describes the incident of rape in the best possible way in which she

could describe and explain the act of rape. The victim had, on the first

available opportunity informed her mother when the mother came home in

the evening of the day in question. Victim identified the Accused. Though the

,1t. I!1I!

3

defence position was a doubtful identification, the victim made a dock

identification and was able to explain in her own way the identity of the

Accused person. The mother of the prosecutrix in her evidence had explained

the physical and mental condition of her daughter the victim in this case. It is

in evidence that the daughter is subject to epileptic fits and some form of

physical disability. There are also certain spells and intervals when the victim is

unable to talk. Evidence reveal that the victim needs assistance and the other

sister even abandoned her school education to help the victim, in her day to

day life.

The learned defence counsel submitted to this court that the

evidence relied upon by the prosecution is more or less hearsay evidence

(mother's evidence). There is no proper clue as to the date of incident.

Learned counsel no doubt was critical of the trial Judge's views expressed at

pg. (182), on demeanor and deportment and on the aspect of reasonable

doubt. Trial Judge seems to have given his candid views of reasonable doubt.

As to how the learned trial Judge equate reasonableness to reasons and in the

event reasons cannot be adduce would not amount to reasonable doubt needs

a better explanation by the learned trial Judge. Reasonable would ordinarily be

agreeable to reason which is not absurd. Another definition would be to say

4

endowed with reasons, reasoning. Nevertheless it appears to this court that

the learned High Court Judge has given his mind to the defence case.

The following pages of his judgment at folios 182 - 185 seems to be

his explanation when the Judge considered the available time factor and the

value of evidence of the defence. The other witness called by the defence is

not supportive of the Accused version as regards his presence at the

community centre at times suggested for a function. In other words the

suggested alibi cannot be fortified by the evidence of the other defence

witness. Accused in his evidence maintains that he was present at the

community centre at all relevant times of the day to demonstrate that he was

elsewhere and not at the scene of the crime. The probabilities to be

elsewhere does not tally with the evidence of the other defence witness. This

seems to be the factual position and the trial Judge's conclusion on same

cannot be faulted and this court does not wish to interfere with same,

although burden of proof of 'alibi' is not on the defence.

The trial Judge has also considered the medical evidence. No doubt

the Doctor's evidence and the medical report support the prosecution case.

Defence counsel had at the trial cross-examined the Doctor who gave evidence

to show that the injury was not recent. Doctor was able to explain wit h clarity

1

5

all necessary details to meet the defence position. At this point of this

judgment I would refer to the plea of alibi and the defence witnesses, as

described in the following decided case ..

In Dudh Nath Pandey vs. State of u.P. AIR 1981, 912 S.c.

Defence witnesses are entitled to equal treatment with those of the prosecution and,

Courts ought to overcome their traditional, instinctive disbelief in defence witnesses. Quite

often, they tell lies but so do the prosecution witness. (para 19)

The plea of alibi postulates the physical impossibility of the presence of the accused at

the scene of offence by reason of his presence at another place. The plea can therefore

succeed only if it is shown that the accused was so far away at the relevant time that he

could not be present at the place where the crime was committed.

In all the above circumstances we are not inclined to intervene and

interfere with the conviction and sentence. As such we affirm the conviction

and sentence, and proceed to dismiss this appeal

Appeal dismissed.

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne J.

I agree. H.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

[

!

tf

~