==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Samarasinghe Kankanamalage Sirisena

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

C.A 47/2009

H.C. Matara 135/2007

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

Vs.

The Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

RESPONDENT

Indika Mallawarachchi for the Accused-Appellant

Dappula de Livera for the Responden

20.05.2014

27.05.2014

1

2

GOONERATNE J.

The Accused-Appellant was convicted of murder of one Ranasinghe

Liyanage Martin Sirisena and sentenced to death. The deceased had

complained to the police that the Accused had cut some plantain trees

belonging to the deceased. As a result the deceased complained to the police.

Evidence suggest that there were only three houses in the compound where

both the Accused and the deceased lived and the houses were situated in

close proximity to each other.

The witness No.1 was a 19 year old student who testified as regards

the incident. The evidence reveal that the witness, her mother, sister,

mother's sister and two of her unless lived in one of the above three houses

which consisted of two rooms. One of the unless happened to be the deceased

and the other uncle was disabled and cannot walk. The deceased and the

other uncle stayed in a shed attached to the house, and the shed had some

planks which has been used as the entrance to the shed which cannot be

locked as a door. On the day of the incident the Accused had been shouting

I

1

II

JII

and threatening the deceased to withdraw the police complain. All this

3 f

f 1

happened at about 10.00 p.m and the Accu7sed was armed with a club.

The Accused had damaged the plants with a club and entered the

shed when the deceased was seated and had struck the deceased with the

club several times. Witness was able to identify the Accused since a light was

kept on and sufficient to identify the Accused? When the Accused assaulted

the deceased with a club the deceased had not resisted.

At the hearing of this appeal it was suggested that the Accused had

been provoked by the deceased. This court on perusal of the proceeding and

the views of the learned High Court Judge finds that all suggestion ahd been

rejected by the witness .

The prosecution case has been conducted properly and this court

finds as stated by the trial Judge the case had been proved beyond reasonable

doubt. The Accused had chosen to give evidence and it was the version of the

Accused that he was provoked by the deceased. The learned High Court Judge

has rejected the case of the Accused-Appellant.

The learned High Court Judge has correctly analaysed all the

evidence led before the High Court, inclusive of medical evidence. We see no

4

basis to interfere with the conviction and sentence imposed by the learned

High Court Judge. As such conviction and sentence of the High Court is

affirmed.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

I I