==== BLOCKS ==== 

· .

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

DDM Vitharana

2 nd Respondent-Appellant

Vs

CA (PHC) 20/2001 HC Matara Writ 66/99

Before

Counsel

Argued on Decided on

Vidanagamage Fransis

Petitioner-Respondent

Assistant Commissioner Agrarian Services Matara

1 st Respondent-Respondent

Sisira de Abrew J & KT Chitrasiri J

Sarath Abeysinghe for the 2nd respondent-appellant No appearance for the petitioner-respondent

Nuwan Peiris SC for the 1 st respondent petitioner

12.5.2011 28.6.2011

Sisira de Abrew J.

The Assistant Commissioner of Agrarian Services (hereinafter

referred to as the Commissioner), on a complaint sent by the appellant,

r I j

2

acting under Section 18 of the Agrarian Services Act No. 58 of 1979 (the

Act), by letter dated 15.7.1981, directed Vidanagamage Fransis (the

respondent) to pay due share of the paddy field to the appellant who is the

owner of the paddy field. Since the respondent did not comply with the said

direction, the Commissioner, acting under Section 18(2) of the Act issued an

eviction order dated 20.10.1981 on the respondent. The court of Appeal,by

judgment dated 29.4.1987, quashed the said eviction order. Leave to appeal

application filed by the appellant against the said order was refused by the

Supreme Court. Thereafter the Commissioner, acting in terms of the

judgment of the court of Appeal, by letter dated 25.10.95, directed the

appellant to hand over the possession of the paddy field to the respondent.

The commissioner again issued a letter dated 16.1.96 directing the appellant

to hand over the possession of the paddy field to the respondent. The

appellant did not comply with the said direction. Since the Commissioner

failed to place the respondent in possession of the paddy field, the

respondent filed a petition in the High Court praying for a writ of Mandamus

directing the Commissioner to establish his ande rights. The Learned High

Court Judge (HCJ), by his order dated 12.9.2000, issued a writ of Mandamus

directing the Commissioner to implement the judgment of the Court of

Appeal.

It has to be noted here that the Court of Appeal by its judgment

dated 29.4 1987 quashed the decision of the Commissioner evicting the

respondent. If the decision of the Commissioner evicting the respondent was

quashed, he must be placed in possession of the paddy field. When the court

of Appeal made an order on a public officer it becomes the public duty of

the said officer to implement it. The public officer cannot interpret the order

of the Court to give an absurd meaning. The contention of learned counsel

3

for the appellant that the Commissioner has no public duty to place the

respondent in possession of the paddy field cannot be accepted. Learned

counsel for the appellant cited a case reported in 73 NLR 261 (The Eksath

Engineru Saha Samanya Kamkaru Samithiya Vs S.C.S De Silva). In that

case Supreme Court held: "Where an order of an inferior tribunal is quashed

by the Supreme Court in Certiorari proceedings on a ground which does not

deal with the merits of the case, the inferior tribunal has jurisdiction to

rehear the case. But if the order was made by an Industrial Court, the proviso

to section 22(2) of the Industrial Disputes Act does not enable to such re-

hearing if the members of the panel from which the Industrial Court was

constituted ceased to be members of the panel either during the pendency of

the certiorari proceedings or thereafter." In my view it has no application to

the facts of this case.

F or the above reasons, I hold that there is no reason for this Court to

interfere with the judgment of the learned HCJ dated 12.9.2000. I therefore

dismiss the appeal with costs fixed at Rs.50,0001-.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

C.A.(PHC)20/2001 28. 06.2011 H.C. MATARA WRIT 66/99

K.T. CHITRASIRI, J.

Having perused the judgment of His Lordship Justice Sisira de Abrew, it is my

desire to express my views on the issue whilst agreeing with His Lordship's conclusion.

Impugned order of the learned High Court Judge of Matara was made pursuant

to an application made by the petitioner-respondent namely Vidanagamage Francis

(hereinafter referred to as the respondent) for a Writ of Mandamus in order to compel

the 1st respondent-respondent namely the Assistant Commissioner of Agrarian Services

(hereinafter referred to as the Commissioner) in order to obtain possession of the paddy

field called Dolamawatha alias Mahakumbura, ensuring his ande govi rights over that

property.

Since there were several applications in this connection by the parties, to court as

well as to the Commissioner, it is necessary to refer to the events that had taken place in

a chronological manner.

• Admittedly, the respondent had been the ande cultivator of the land in question

for many years whilst the 2nd respondent-appellant namely D.D.M.Vitharana

(hereinafter referred to as the appellant) had been the owner of the land.

• By letter dated 15.07.1981, the appellant made a complaint to the Commissioner

alleging that the respondent did not give the owners share of the harvest to him.

• The Commissioner without affording an opportunity to the respondent to present

his case, made order directing the respondent to leave the land in dispute by his

letter dated 20th October 1981. Interestingly, nothing is mentioned in the said

2

letter as to whom the possession of the land was to be handed over. Purportedly,

this direction was made in terms of Section 18(2) of the Agrarian Services Act

No.58 of 1979.

• However, the Circumstances reveal that the appellant had taken over the

possession of the paddy field. The said possession of the land is still in the hands

of the appellant and it is now nearing 30 years.

• Pursuant to the aforesaid dispossession, the respondent made an application to

the Court of Appeal by filing the case bearing No.CA 1276/82 and sought relief

by way of a writ.

• In that application, the Court of Appeal issued a Writ of Certiorari quashing the

decision of the Commissioner referred to in the aforesaid letter dated

20.l0.1981. However, no specific order was made in the Judgment by the Court

of Appeal as to who is entitled to the possession of the land though the

possession had already been taken over by the appellant on the strength of the

said decision that had been nullified.

• A Leave to Appeal Application also had been filed against the aforesaid decision

of the Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court refused the said application for

leave affirming the decision of the Court of Appeal dated 29.4.1987.

• However, the possession of the land remained with the appellant though the

decision to hand over the possession of the land had been quashed. Even the

Commissioner did nothing until he sent two letters dated 25.10.95 and 16.01.96

after a long delay of more than 7 years directing the appellant to hand over

possession to the respondent.

• The appellant did not adhere even to the said belated directives of the

commissioner and continued to be in possession of the land in dispute.

3

• Obviously, the respondent had no option than to file another application for a

writ of mandamus to compel the Commissioner to hand over possession of the

land to the respondent in the Provincial High Court where such jurisdiction had

been conferred on that court by then.

• High Court upon consideration of the merits, issued a Writ of Mandamus

compelling the Commissioner to hand over the possession of the disputed land

to the respondent. It is the decision that is being canvassed in this Court now.

Learned Counsel for the appellant argued that the learned High Court Judge should

not have relied and acted upon the earlier order made on 29.4.1987 by the Court of

Appeal when issuing the writ of mandamus on the Commissioner to hand over

possession of the land to the respondent. In support of this contention he has referred to

the case of The Eksath Engineru Saha Samanya Kamkaru Samithya v. S.C.S.de.

Silva, 73 NLR at 260. Ratio decendai in that case is that where an order of an inferior

tribunal is quashed by the Supreme Court in Certiorari proceedings on a ground which

does not deal with the merits of the case, the inferior tribunal has jurisdiction to re-hear

the case".

Therefore the contention of the learned Counsel is that the parties in this instance

should have taken steps to have a re-hearing of the matter rather than resorting to file

another action. He also argued that the earlier order of the Court of Appeal was only to

quash the decision of the Commissioner on the basis that it was made without affording

an opportunity to the respondent to present his case, violating the principles of natural

justice. He further said that there was no directive made by the Court of Appeal to hand

over the possession of the land but it was merely to quash an executive decision. His

..

4

position therefore is that the learned High Court Judge was wrong when he issued the

writ of mandamus relying upon the earlier decision ofthe Court of Appeal.

Then the question arIses whether the Commissioner could have directed the

appellant to hand over possession to the respondent in the absence of a specific order to

do so merely on the strength of the writ of certiorari that was issued by the Court of

Appeal. The order of the Court of Appeal was made on the basis that there had been no

proper inquiry held by the Assistant Commissioner to arrive at his decision referred to

in the letter dated 20.10.1981. In such a situation, the parties concerned should have

taken proper steps, particularly the Commissioner, to have a proper inquiry giving both

parties an opportunity to present their respective cases.

Without resorting to such a process, the Commissioner has kept a blind eye on the

issue for many years. More importantly, even the respondent without making a request

to the authorities to hold an inquiry into the complaint of the appellant namely not

giving the proper harvest share to the owner, sought the assistance of the Commissioner

and the Court, to obtain possession of the land through them. The Commissioner too

may have not pursued the requests of the respondent to hand over possession since there

was no order compelling him to hand over the possession of the land. Therefore, it is

not incorrect to argue that the Commissioner cannot be compelled by way of a writ of

mandamus to hand over possession of the land on the strength of the writ of certiorari

issued by the Court of Appeal.

However, it is important to note that the order of the Court of Appeal dated

29.4.1987, quashing the decision contained in the letter of the Commissioner dated

20.10.1981, makes all the subsequent acts done on the basis of that letter, invalid.

5

Accordingly, even the taking over of the possession of the land by the appellant, it

being one such act should necessarily has no force or effect in the eyes of the law. In

other words dispossession of the respondent pursuant to the letter dated 20.10.1981

from the land in question becomes unlawful and untenable.

Against such a background, it is clear that a public duty is cast upon the

Commissioner to restore the status of the land in question to the position that prevailed

at the time he issued the directive to hand over the possession to the appellant by his

letter dated 20.10.81. In fact, the Commissioner should have issued a directive to hand

over the possession of the land, back to the respondent immediately after the issuance of

the order quashing his decision by the Court of Appeal on 29.04.1987. In this instance,

he has failed to do so until he wrote the letter dated 25.10.1995.

Accordingly, it is my considered view that a writ of mandamus would lie to

make a direction on the officer namely the Commissioner to perform the said public

duty restoring the position that was in existence before the taking over of the possession

of the land by the appellant. Certainly, the learned High Court Judge when he issued the

writ of mandamus compelling the Commissioner to hand over possession of the paddy

field to the respondent must have had addressed his mind to these matters. Therefore, I

am not inclined to interfere with his decision and hold that the issuance of the writ of

mandamus by the learned High Court Judge is correct.

At this stage, it is noteworthy to mention that had the lawyers for the respondent

moved for a writ of certiorari and for a writ of mandamus simultaneously in the first

application that was made in the year 1982 against the decision of the Commissioner,

, •

6

this protracted litigation would have been avoided and obtained the relief pending a

proper inquiry by the Commissioner. Also, it is to be noted that due to the wrongful

dispossession of the respondent from the paddy field, he had lost his income that he

could have received by cultivating this land for nearly 30 odd years or at least from the

date of the decision of the Court of Appeal, namely 29.04.1987.

I also must mention that though the possession of the land is to be handed over

to the respondent on the basis that I have mentioned hereinbefore, the appellant's right

to pursue his complaint made to the Commissioner dated 15.07.1981 still persists and it

has not come to an end. Therefore, he has every right to take necessary steps to act

accordingly.

With those comments, I also conclude that this appeal should stand dismissed

with costs as my brother judge, Justice Sisira De Abrew has decided.

Appeal dismissed with costs fixed at Rupees Fifty Thousand (Rs 50,0001-).

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL