==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A . 451/2008 (Writ)

W. Ashoka Jennet Silva

No. 15/7, Chakindarama Road,

Ratmalana.

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. Urban Development Authority 6th & ih Floors, Sethsiripaya, Battaramulla.

2. The Chairman,

Urban Development Authority 6th & ih Floors, Sethsiripaya, Battaramulla.

3. The Municipal Council

Dehiwela Mount Lavinia Anagarika Dharmapala Mawatha, Dehiwela.

4. The Mayor The Municipal Council Dehiwela Mount Lavinia Anagarika Dharmapala Mawatha, Dehiwela.

5. The Municipal Commissioner The Municipal Council

Dehiwela Mount Lavinia Anagarika Dharmapala Mawatha, Dehiwela.

RESPONDENTS

AND NOW

1

1. Mallika Wanigasekera No. 15/7, Chakindarama Road, Ratmalana.

2. Hemawathie Kannangara

No. 15/7, Chakindarama Road, Ratmalana.

3. L. Lalitha Ranjani Fernando

1\Jo. 15/7, Chakindarama Road, Ratmalana.

4. M. D. Malkanthi Peiris

No. 15/7, Chakindarama Road, Ratmalana.

5. M. Rohana Warnapriya Peiris

1\Jo. 15/7, Chakindarama Road, Ratmalana.

INTERVENIENT-RESPONDNETS

Vs.

W. Ashoka Jennet Silva

1\Jo. 15/7, Chakindarama Road, Ratmalana.

PETITIONER-RESPONDNET

1. Urban Development Authority 6th & ih Floors, Sethsiripaya, Battaramulla.

2. The Chairman, Urban Development Authority 6th & ih Floors, Sethsiripaya, Battaramulla.

2

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

H. N. J. Perera J.

3. The Municipal Council Dehiwela Mont Lavinia Anagarika Dharmapala Mawatha, Dehiwela.

4. The IVIayor The Municipal Council

Dehiwela Mount Lavinia Anagarika Dharmapala Mawatha, Dehiwela.

5. The Municipal Commissioner The Municipal Council

Dehiwela Mount Lavinia Anagarika Dharmapala Mawatha, Dehiwela.

RESPONDENTS-RESPONDENTS

Dr. Jayatissa de Costa P.C. with Lahiru Silva for Petitioner

W. Dayaratne P.C. with R. Jayawardena & D. Dayaratne

For 3rd- 5th Respondents

Victor Fernando for 6th- 10th Intervenient-Petitioners

07.02.2013

02.04.2013

3

4

GOONERATNE J.

This is an application for a Writ of Certiorari and Mandamus. The

application more particularly relates to a demolition order, and the Petitioner has

sought a Writ of Certiorari to quash the decision taken by 3rd to 5th Respondents

to demolish Petitioners house bearing assessment Nos. 15/7, 15/7 1/1 and 15/7

Y2. A Writ of Mandamus is sought to compel the 3rd to 5th Respondents to

minimize the demolition to the extent of the old house and regularize a new

building plan for the dwelling house of the Petitioner bearing the above

assessment numbers. However on the issuance of a Writ of Mandamus, this court

observes that learned President's Counsel for the Petitioner in his oral

submissions as well as in the pleadings/written submission was not able to

demonstrate the required public purpose and or the statutory duty to qualify for

the issuance of a Writ of Mandamus.

What was stressed by the learned President's Counsel for the

Petitioner was the question of the 3rd to 5th Respondents not having jurisdiction to

invoke the provision of the Urban Development Authority Act No. 41 of 1978 as

amended by Amending Acts of 1982 and 1984. lt was the position of learned

President's Counsel that there is and was a total patent lack of jurisdiction for the

local authority {3rd to 5th Respondents) in taking steps to invoke the provisions of

the above statute. He argued that all matters pertaining to planning in terms of

the above statute is a matter for the Urban Development Authority and it cannot

be delegated to the local authority. Learned President's Counsel also cited the

cases reported in 2003 (3) SLR 40 Jayasinghe's case and contended a patent lack

5

of jurisdiction on the part of the 3rd to sth Respondents. This was the only basis on

which the Petitioner sought to canvass the decisions of the 3rd to sth Respondents

in their exercise of taking steps to demolish the building in question.

The learned Counsel for the Intervenient-Petitioners as well as

learned President's Counsel for 3rd to 5th Respondents demonstrated to this court

that the learned Magistrate as contained in document P2A has made order for

demolition of the premises in question, and that the Petitioner had not a\s any

stage canvassed the order of the learned Magistrate. The learned Counsel for the

Intervenient Petitioners referred to us the case of Municipal Council Vs. Selvam

reported in 2012 Bar Association Law Reports Pgs. 58 - 61. He also argued his

case on the footing of the Petitioner's application to court is futile in the context

of the order made by the leaned Magistrate.

However the question of delegation must be sorted out at the very

out set by perusing the following sections of the Urban Development Authority

Act as Amended.

Section 23(5) of the Urban Development Authority Act as Amended by Act No. 4

of 1982 reads thus:

"The Authority may delegate to any officer of a local authority, in consultation with that local

authority, any of its powers, duties and functions relating to planning within any area declared

to be a development area under section 3, and such officer shall exercise, perform or discharge

any such power, duty or function so delegated, under the direction, supervision and control of

the authority

6

Section 28 A of Act No. 4 of 1982 is also reproduced and reads thus:

(1) Where in a development area, any development activity is commenced, continued

resumed or completed without a permit or contrary to any term or condition set out in

a permit issued in respect of such development activity, the Authority may, in addition

to any other remedy available to the Authority under this Law, by written notice require

the person who is executing or has executed such development activity, or has executed

it to be executed, on or before such day as shall be specified in such notice not being

less than seven days from the date thereof-

(a) To cease such development activity forthwith; or

(b) To restore the land on which such development activity is being executed or has

been executed, to its original condition; or

(c) To secure compliance with the permit under the authority of which that

development activity is carried out or engaged in, or with any term or condition of

such permit and for the purposes of compliance with the requirements aforesaid-

(i) to discontinue the use of any land or building; or

(ii) to demolish or alter any building or work.

(2) lt shall be the duty of the person on whom a notice is issued under subsection (1) to

comply with any requirement specified in such notice within the time specified in such

notice or within such extended time as may be granted by the Authority on application

made in that behalf.

(3)

(a) Where in pursuance of a notice issued under subsection (1), any building or work

is not demolished or altered within the time spe,:ified in the notice or within

such extended time as may have been granted by the Authority , the Authority

may apply to the Magistrate to make a mandatory order authorizing the

Authority to demolish or alter the building or work, and the Magistrate on

serving notice on the person who had failed to wmply with the requirement of

the Authority under Subsection (1) to demolish or alter the building or work,

may, if he is satisfied to the same effect, make order accordingly.

(b) If such person undertakes to demolish or alter the building or work, the

Magistrate may if he thinks fit postpone the operation of the order for such time

7

not exceeding two months as he thinks sufficient for the purpose of giving the

person an opportunity of demolishing or altering the building or work.

(4) Where a mandatory order has been made under subsection (3), it shall be the

duty of the police authorities to render all necessary assistance of the Authority

in carrying out the order.

(5) The Authority shall be entitled to recover any reasonable expenses incurred by

the Authority in demolishing or altering any building or work in pursuance of an

order made by the Magistrate under Subsection (3).

Having perused the above sections of the said law we find that the

question of delegation has been dealt in the case of Pt.~rera, Special Commissioner

Vs. Selvam 2012 BLR 58 ...

Held:

(i) The scope of Section 28A is free from obscurity that the legislature intended to secure

compliance with the development plan so that proper implementation of the said plan

is carried out.

(j) While Section 8A to 8H deal with the manner in which a development plan has to be

prepared, Section 8J makes it clear that the purpose of issuing a permit is to ensure that

all development activities in development area sbould conform to the development

plan.

(k) Section 8K further provides that upon the completion of any development activity by

any person under the authority of a permit, he should apply for a certificate from the

Authority confirming that the development activity has been carried out in accordance

with the permit.

(I) The provisions contained in Section 28A(3) fall within the scope of the term "planning"

and therefore the powers, duties and functions referred to therein can be delegated by

the UDA to any officer of a local authority.

The above decided case has also dealt with Jayasinghe Vs.

Seethawakapura UC by Justice Sripavan and observes that Jayasinghe's case dealt

8

with a situation where there was no delegation and state further that the dicta in

Jayasinghe's case is distinguishable from the above 'Selvams' case.

We have had the advantage of perusing the written submissions of

all parties. Although on the above basis this application need to be rejected, this

court has no doubt that it could reject this application on the basis of futility also.

As observed above the learned Magistrate's order for demolition has not been

canvassed and the attempt to file this application before this court is futile in the

facts and circumstance of this case. Writs would not bE~ issued if the writ would be

futile in its result. Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lanka Vs. Messrs Jafferijee &

Jafferjee 2005 (1) SLR 89 at 93.

Nevertheless, there are instances however passage of time has been

held to render Mandamus futile. For instance, 1\/'a·,damus was once sought to

compel the Respondent to take steps to issue a butcher's licence for the year

1965 to the Petitioner. The steps to be taken required the Respondent to publish

the Petitioner's application in the Gazette Deliverirg the judgment in October

1965, the Writ was refused partly because of futility. Jayasena Vs.

Punchiappuhamy 1980 (2) SLR 43,48. An application for Writs of Certiorari and

Mandamus seeking, to quash orders made by the R1~spondents, refusing the

Petitioner's application to admit his child in the year 1984 to the Kindergarten

class of a school and, to direct them to admit the (::hild to that class, was refused

by judgment of December 1985, partly because t~e child was, by them, overage

to be admitted to the kindergarten class, and "the court will not lend itself to

making a stultifying order which cannot be carri~d out. Per Siva Selliah J.

Hulangamuwa Vs. Siriwardena, Principal Visaka Viday;:•daya 1986 (1) SLR 275, 278.

A writ will not issue where it would be futile or vexatious (1958) 61 NLR 491, 496.

9

The Writ of Certiorari clearly will not issue where th1~ end result will be futility,

frustration, injustice and illegality. Per Soza J. Sidlect Vs. Jacolyn Seneviratne

(1984) (1) SLR 90. Followed by Marsoof J. Ratnasiri Vs. Ellawella (2004) 2 SLR 180,

208.

In all the above circumstances we ~re Jf the view that the writs

sought cannot be issued in law where a person fail:; to adhere to the requirement

of the notice, Section 28A(3)(a) authorizes the municipality (as in Selvam's case)

to commence proceedings before a Magistrate and obtain an order for demolition

of the development activity to restore the land to its previous condition. All the

necessary procedural steps have been taken by the 3

1-d to sth Respondent and

there is no challenge to the order of the Magistrate. As such writs sought cannot

be issued in law. Application dismissed without costs.

Application dismissed.

(5:JJJCs~7

JUDGE OF Tl~ APPEAL

H. N. J. Perera J.

I agree.