==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL

OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A.NO.656/98 (F)

D.C. KULIYAPITIYA

CASE NO.I0947/L

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON

DECIDED ON

Vithana Arachchilage Rupawathie

Halimulle Watta

Yakkennehera

Metiyagane

Defendant-Appellant

Vs

1. Herath Mudiyanselage Lionel

Bandara Rathnayaka

And others All of Ihala Nakalagamuwa

Nakalagamuwa

Plaintiff-Respondents

K. T.CHITRASIRI, J.

MALINIE GUNARATNE, J.

Bimal Rajapaksha with S.A.Kulasoorya

for the Defendant- Appellant

Collin A. Amerasinghe with R.Munasinghe

for the Plaintiff-Respondents

28.07.2014

21.05.2014 by the Defendant-Appellant

09.07.2014 by the Plaintiff-Respondents

17TH SEPTEMBER 2014

CHITRASIRI, J.

This is an appeal seeking inter alia to set aside the judgment dated

21.07.1998. In that judgment, the learned Additional District Judge of

Kuliyapitiya made order to enter decree as prayed for in the plaint dated

11.05.1994, filed by the plaintiff-respondents. (hereinafter referred to as the

respondents) As a result, the respondents along with two others were declared

entitled to the land referred to in the schedule to the plaint and an order also was

made evicting the defendant-appellant from the aforesaid land described in the

schedule to the plaint. The respondents were made entitled to the damages as

well. Being aggrieved by the said judgment the appellant preferred this appeal to

this Court.

Learned Counsel for the appellants, at the commencement of the argument

restricted this appeal to two grounds. His first argument is that the respondents

being the plaintiffs in this case have failed to terminate the licensee status of the

appellant alleged by the respondent themselves before filing the action. This

action has been filed accepting the appellant as a licensee having averred so in

paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 in the plaint. In those paragraphs contained in the plaint,

respondents have averred that the defendant and her husband came into

occupation of the land referred to in the schedule to the plaint, with the

permission of the predecessors-in-title of the appellants. Indeed, the respondents

have sent a notice to the defendant-appellant (hereinafter referred to as the

appellant) directing him to hand over the premises in dispute to the 1st plaintiff-

2

I

1 1

I I I

respondent. Accordingly, learned Counsel for the appellant contended that the

respondents could not have filed and maintained this action without terminating

the licensee status of the appellant, upon which ground the respondents have

filed this action.

Even though the respondents have pleaded in such a manner accepting the

appellant as a licensee, neither the respondents nor the appellant have raised

issues on such a basis when the trial was taken up in the Court below. Hence, it

is seen that the issue of terminating the licensee of the appellant was not at all an

issue when this case was pending in the District Court. Indeed, this case had

proceeded there in the District Court, treating the defendant as a trespasser.

Even the line of questioning by the learned Counsel for appellant at the trial held

in the District Court would clearly show such a proposition. Therefore, it is

apparent that the issue of over-holding licensee of the appellant was never an

issue in the Court below.

Moreover, averments in the plaint had been set out to establish basically

the title of the land put in suit treating the defendant as a trespasser even though

the matters as to a licensee also had been averred therein. The appellant too, in

her answer has claimed prescriptive title to the land which she has described in

the schedule to her answer filed in this case. In that answer, the appellant has

pleaded that she had been in possession of a land in extent of 1 and 1/2 acres,

having refuted the status of licensee referred to in the plaint. The issues raised by

the appellant also are to claim prescriptive title to the land that she has claimed

title. In the circumstances, it is clear that the action of the plaintiff-respondents

3

is to have a decree as to the title of the land put in suit on the strength of their

title deeds and accordingly to have the appellant evicted therefrom rather than to

evict him on the basis of a licensee.

Accordingly, it is my view that merely because the respondents in their

plaint have referred to a letter addressed to the appellant directing him to leave

the premises in suit considering her as a licensee, it will not be a bar to obtain

the reliefs prayed for in the plaint relying upon the title deeds they have

submitted and then treating the appellant as a trespasser. In the circumstances,

failure to terminate the licensee of the defendant will not be a reason in this

instance to disturb the findings of the learned Additional District Judge.

The second argument advanced by the learned Counsel for the appellant is

the failure on the part of the plaintiff-respondents to identify the land from which

the defendant is to be evicted. Section 41 of the Civil Procedure Code stipulates

that when the claim is for a specific portion of land, then that specific portion

also must be described in the plaint so far as possible by reference to physical I

f metes and bounds or by reference to a sufficient sketch, map or plan to be I

appended to the plaint.

The necessity to identify the land to which title is claimed by a party to an

action had been discussed by Marsoof, J in the case of Jamaldeen Abdul Lateef

v. Abdul Majeed Mohamed Mansoor another [2010 (2) SLR at page 333) as

well. It was again referred to in Ananda Kodagoda vs. Moraj Megji Udeshi by

this Court. [C.A.Minutes dated 22.1.2014 in C.A.No.175/98 (F). Then the issue

4

IS; were the plaintiff-respondents successful In identifying the land that they

claim title in this instance?

Admittedly, the respondents' claim is to a larger land which has an extent

of 16 acres. The boundaries to the aforesaid 16 acre land had been clearly

described in the schedule to the plaint. However, no sketch or plan has been

produced either with the plaint or in evidence to establish identity of the part of

the aforesaid 16 acre land which is subjected to in this case as alleged by the

appellant. Appellant has claimed only a land in extent of 1 V2 acres from the said

larger land. In such a backdrop, the question arises as to the identity of the part

of the larger land occupied by the appellant. Then it is necessary to ascertain

whether the plaintiff-respondents were able to identify the land where the

defendant-appellant was occupying or in other words the land subjected to in this

action as alleged by the appellant.

As mentioned hereinbefore in this judgment, identification of the land in

dispute was never an issue when the case was taken up before the learned

District Judge. The manner in which the case has proceeded show that the

parties were well aware of the land that the plaintiffs were claiming and there had

not been a dispute as to the identity of the corpus at that stage. The appellant

herself has admitted that she is claiming prescriptive title to a land that has an

extent of 1 1/2 acres which falls within the land called Halimulla Estate. The

name of the land claimed by the respondents also is Halimulla Estate to which

they have established the ownership.

5

III

f !I

Northern boundary of the 16 acre land called Halimulla Estate claimed by

the respondents is the land belonging to Piyatunga. Eastern boundary of both the

lands referred to in the two schedules found in the plaint as well as in the answer

is the roadway. Southern boundary of the lands referred to in both the said

schedules is the land belonging to Piyasena. Western boundary of the 16 acre

land is the paddy field belonging to villagers whereas the western boundary of the

land claimed by the defendant is the land claimed by the plaintiffs. Northern

boundary of the land claimed by the appellant is the land belonging to villagers.

When considering those boundaries, it is clear that the land occupied by

the defendant falls within the 16 acre land claimed by the respondents. Clear

evidence also is forthcoming to show that the appellant had been in occupation of

a land within the land claimed by the respondents which has an extent of 1 1/2

acres. The appellant has not disputed the location of the land at any stage.

Indeed, the defendant-appellant has claimed a land in extent of 1 1/2 acres

within the land claimed by the respondents.

In the circumstances, it is clear that the respondents have successfully

established that the land claimed and occupied by the appellant falls within the

land described in the schedule to the plaint to which the plaintiff-respondents

along with two others have claimed title. Appellant also was well aware of the

identity of the land claimed by the respondents. Therefore, it is clear that the

identity of the land put in suit had been established by the respondents even

6

though no sketch or map had been submitted to Court by them for the purpose of

identifying the land where the appellant is in occupation. In the circumstances, I

am not inclined to accept the position that the respondents have failed to identify

the land as required by law.

Learned Counsel for the appellant did not dispute the title of the

respondents to the land described in the schedule to the plaint. Indeed, the

deeds marked PI and P2, clearly show that the plaintiffs have become co-owners

to this land. When they established the co-ownership to the land, they have the

right to seek for eviction of the persons who has no right or title to occupy the

same. This position was clearly upheld by S.N.Silva J (as he then was) in the

case of Hariette v. Pathmasiri. [1996 (1) SLR at page 358] Accordingly, it is my

opinion that the learned Additional District Judge is correct when he decided the

case in favour of the plaintiff-respondents as prayed for in the plaint.

For the aforesaid reasons, I am not inclined to interfere with the judgment

of the learned Additional District Judge. Accordingly, this appeal is dismissed f

with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

E OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

MALINIE GUNARATNE, J

I agree

7