==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C. A. 448/2009 (Writ)

S.M. Mangala Pushpakumara

"Wewagedara", Hindagolla.

Kurunegala.

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. Air Chief Marshal Roshan Gunathilake

The Commander of Air Force

Air Force Headquarters,

Colombo 2.

2. Air Vise Marshal Karannagoda

Director (Administration) of Sri lanka

Air Force, Air Force Headquarters,

Colombo 2.

3. Squadron leader K.W.M.P.K. Wijekoon

Deputy Director (Administration) of Sri

lanka Air Force, Air Force Headquarters,

Colombo 2.

4. Group Captain D.G.C. Weerakoon

Group Commander,

Air Force Camp, Parawasakulama,

Vavuniya.

5. Honourable Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

RESPONDENTS

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERATNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J. &

H. N.J.. Perera J.

J. M. Wijebandara for the Petitioner

Vikum de Abdrew Senior State Counsel

28.01.2013

28.03.2012

2

The Petitioner who joined the Sri Lakna Air Force on or about 1988

and who was subsequently promoted as a Flight Sergeant, has filed this Writ

application seeking Mandates in the nature of Writ of Certiorari to quash

documents marked P15 & P19 by which the Petitioner had been discharged from

the Sri Lanka Air Force for the reasons contained therein and for an order

permitting the Petitioner to retire under the clause determination of engagement

according to document P12A.

The material disclosed in the affidavit of the Petitioner, it is stated

that he had 22 long years of commendable service and to establish same has

annexed documents P1 to P11 A to P11D. His service of 22 years would be

completed on 9.5.2010. Petitioner has produced document P12A which refer to

as

110n termination of engagement, 11Which letter of discharge is dated 9.3.2009.

3

Petitioner describes this as a way of retirement under the normal circumstances

after same became due by operation of regulation.

In the pleadings filed by the Petitioner it is disclosed that the

Petitioner was charged for a minor offence of conduct prejudicial to Air Force

discipline. (visiting the woman quarters without informing relevant official).

Charge sheet is produced P13 and after inquiry, Petitioner was imposed a

punishment of 12 days detention (P14A). According to the Petitioner it is a minor

punishment under Section 133 of the Air Force Act. Punishment imposed on

18.12.2008. Petitioner also demonstrate that after the punishment the Petitioner

who was in service was in fact promoted as substantive Flight Sergeant on

1.2.2009 (P14B). Thereafter whilst in service the Petitioner was served with letter

of 7.5.2009 (P15) titled ~~provisional clearance on discharge" of Petitioner. Deputy

Director (Administration) inform the Petitioner that the Commander of the Air

Force had approved the discharge of the Petitioner under clause

11SNLR" -Service

No Longer Required. The Petitioner being dissatisfied of P15 submitted letters

P16; P17 seeking redress of grievance from the 1st Respondent. By P18 the 1st

Respondent informed the Petitioner that permission cannot be granted to meet

the 1st Respondent.

The Petitioner seeks to challenge letter P15 and state ;t is

unreasonable, arbitrary and capricious and ultra-vires the provisions of the Sri

Lanka Air Force Act for the following reasons.

(a) No provision to impose a punishment twice and further punishment could

not be imposed

(b) A discharge as in P15 is highly excessive considering the charge in P13.

4

(c) Violating legitimate expectation of Petitioner who has already been chosen

for retirement as in P12A. (termination of engagement)

Paragraph 19 of the Petitioner's affidavit seems to connect letter P19 which

is sought to be quashed. The said paragraph reads thus:

"Therefore the letter issued by the Third Respondent dated 24th June 2009,

informing the Petitioner that he is discharged from service, under c~luse

SNLR is ultra-vires, illegal and unreasonable. A copy of the said letter is

annexed hereto marked as P19 and pleads same as part and parcel of this

petition".

The above letter P19 refer to 3 offences committed by the Petitioner

and the Petitioner states that those matters do not amount to military offences.

This court observes that only by a perusal of P19 that one can gather the offence

committed by the Petitioner. Unlike in paragraph 9 where Petitioner makes :::~ full

disclosure of the offence, there is no other paragraph in the pleadings disclosing

the matters stated in P19.

Merely to file a document along with the Petition of the Petitioner

seeking a prerogative writ, without stating in the petition that such document

exists, does not amount to a disclosure of such document by the Petitioner.

Athula Ratnayake Vs. Jayasinghe (1975) 78 NLR 35, 39- 40. Further, if a material

fact contained in a document is not expressly referred to in the petition and

affidavit, the Petitioner is guilty of suppression of that material fact, even if that

document itself is filed along with the petition and affidavit and the fact that the

5

document is being filed is mentioned in the petition and affidavit Alphonso

Appuhamy Vs. Hettiarachchi (1975) 77 NLR 131, 135 at 135

It was one of the main points urged by the learned counsel for the

Petitioner that the Petitioner cannot be tried twice or re-imposition a punishment

is blatantly ultra-vires since the three items mentioned in P19 had been

separately dealt in disciplinary procedures held against him. The question is

whether issuance of P15 & P19 amount to a punishment?

In the written submissions and submissions before this court the

Petitioner attempted to demonstrate the difference between "On termination of

Engagement" and "Service No Longer Required" (SNLR). Learned counsel for

Petitioner sought to stress that the eligibility of the Petitioner is confirmed bv the

Respondents when document P12A was issued. This would under normal

circumstances entitle the Petitioner for a pension and other statutory benefits. It

was the case of the Petitioner that the above 'SNLR' applies to those who cannot

be discharged under any other category of the relevant regulations. The

Petitioner also stress that under SNLR it is the Petitioner who has to make an

application and refer to column 5 of Rule XII of schedule B (R1). This court having

perused pg. 15 of R1 and column 5 in paragraph (Xii), it is apparent that the

Petitioner has erred on this point and need to be stated so since column 5 of Xii

and Xiii are under different circumstances.

The other point stressed by the learned counsel for the Petitioner is

that P19 refer to only minor offences where he has been warned and punished.

As such Respondents cannot impose another punishment to discharge the

Petitioner without a pension. Petitioner also state that in terms of the Air Force

Act there is no provision to impose punishment twice.

6

The learned Senior State Counsel on the other hand submitted to this

court that letter P19 refer to a decision (letter of 22.6.2009) of the 1st Respondent

and the Petitioner has not annexed same, and therefore application should be

dismissed for non compliance of Rule 3(1) of the Court of Appeal Rules. No doubt

that compliance with Appellate Court Rules is imperative. Vide Shanmugavadivu

Vs. Kulathillake 2003 (1) SLR 215 at pg. 220. However the decision of the 1st

Respondent referred to in P19 would be the decision makers view to discharge

the Petitioner from service by resorting to 'SNLR'. In a strict sense it is necessary.

The Petitioner if he had any difficulty in obtaining same could have moved this

court in the prayer to the Petition and invited court to call for same. On this

ground alone this application could be dismissed. Court cannot quash a document

which contains a decision which is not before court. Gunasekera Vs. Secretary

Minister of Defence C.A. Application 443/2008, C.A minutes 9.7.22008. On behalf

of the Respondents it is also contended that discharging the Petitioner as

aforesaid is not a punishment. Learned Senior State Counsel also submit that

Petitioner could challenge a decision based On Service No Longer required in

instances where the procedure is not followed or adopted. Petitioner's complaint

was not on the procedure not being followed but on the vires of document P19 &

P15.

In any event the necessary material to arrive at a decision regarding

this Writ Application are produced along with the affidavit of the 1st Respondent.

Inter alia it is apparent that the Commander of the Air Force (1st Respondent)

having considered the past record of the Petitioner has authorized the discharge

of the Petitioner under the category service No Longer Required. In support

document R4(with annexutres) are produced, which gives full details of

7

Petitioner's conduct within his service period which would have influenced the 1st

Respondent to take steps as above, and establish the grounds of justification to

discharge the Petitioner as aforesaid. I would list below gist of some of the

material points held against the Petitioner as in document R4 which is described

as a copy of the minute paper with the conduct sheet.

(a) Staying in married quarters without authority with another Air woman called

Hewagamage. Incident took place whilst her husband was away. Act committed is

immoral, indecent and highly indiscipline- punished by 12 days detention.

(b) Failure to settle mess bills- punishment admonished

(c) Marrying another woman without proper authority- punishment- severe reprimand

(d) Discharge from service recommended under service no longer required-

(e) Annexed sheets to R4 (M17) explain further about (a) above that Petitioner failed to

justify his visit. MlO sheet confirm (b) above. F 252A sheet confirm that Petitioner

married a woman without getting a proper divorce from previous marriage.

Having considered (a) to (e) above this court take the view that there is

Justification for the 1st Respondent to discharge the Petitioner under "Service No

Longer Required. It appears to this court that the authorities concerned in the Air

Force had complied with proper procedures in arriving at the above decision and

such discharge from the Air Force is in order. Discharge of the Petitioner was not

meted out as a punishment. Therefore the argument of Petitioner that he was

punished twice has no merit. Considering (a) to (e) above it is evident that

Petitioner was punished as and when an offence was committed. It is apparent

that the above material is sufficient for the 1st Respondent to arrive at a

conclusion that the Petitioner is not a fit and proper person to be discharged

under the other category dependant on document 12A produced by the

Petitioner. The position as regards the discharge referred to in 12A has been

8

explained as a mistake in 1st Respondent's affidavit and this court does not wish

to interfere with 1st Respondent's decision. I reject the argument that the

Petitioner has been punished twice. It is in order for the 1st Respondent to

discharge the Petitioner. A discharge is no punishment. Court has no reason to

conclude that the decision in P15 and P19 is either ultra vires or unreasonable in

the context of material placed by document R4. There is enough and more

material to support document P15 & P19.

I would before concluding this judgment refer to the case law cited

by the Petitioner on the alleged submission of imposing punishment twice and

decision not filed with the petition. The case of Jinadasa Vs. Associated

Newspapers of Ceylon Ltd. This case being a fundamental rights application has

no relevance or application to the case in hand. In the above case there were no

reasons or grounds to terminate the services. In the case in hand there were

more than sufficient reasons and grounds to discharge the Petitioner.

Further termination in the said case was only on the will and pleasure

of the Board and no reference to a punishment as in the case in hand. Nor any

comparison with the case in hand is possible, as the facts and circumstances are

totally different.

The other case of Gunawardena & Wijesooriya Vs. Minister of Local

Government, Housing relate to a divesting of a house under the Ceiling and

Property Law. In that case Commissioner's decision to divest was not

communicated where under the statute there is a right of Appeal to the Boc- ~d of

Review. Such a decision not being communicated is under different circumstances

and legal provisions mainly concerned in vesting and divesting of houses. Such a

• ..

9

decision can never be extended to other cases or applied across the board in all

other cases. Reference to case law as above is more misleading than assisting

court to arrive at a reasonable decision. Both cases cited above on behalf oi the

Petitioner are no comparison to the case in hand.

This court having examined all the facts and circumstances cannot

use its discretion in favour of the Petitioner. We cannot see any legal basis to

come to the conclusion that contents in documents P15 & P19 are either ultra

vires or unreasonable. We are unable to accept the argument that the Petitioner

was punished twice. Any kind of discharge from active service from the Air Force

is done according to the statute and prevailing regulations (R1 - R3 & RG). The

method to discharge an airman or a person in any other category is spelt vJt in

the above regulations, and a punishment and discharge are different, aspects. On

the other hand this court does not wish to cause any administrative

inconvenience to the Air Force Authorities in the light of all the material

contained in document R4 and its annextures. Further this court is mindful of the

consequences of granting a writ.

Sinnatamby J. in P.S. Bus Co. Members and Secretary of the Ceylon

Transport Board (1958) 61 NLR 491

Pg. 987.

"In the present case the consequences of granting the writ can only be described as

disastrous. It would result in all the legislation passed by Parliament since it came into

existence and all its action liable to be regarded as illegal and of no effect. It would

affect the rights and liabilities of several thousands of people who conducted their

business activities and their lives on the basis that legislation enacted by Parliament is

valid; it would disturb the peace and quiet of the country; and, above all, it will bring the

government of the country to a standstill. I take the view that in these circumstances

even if the grounds on which the application is made are valid no Court would exercise

its discretion in favour of the petitioner.

10

In all the above facts and circumstances of this case this court is not

inclined to exercise its discretion in favour of the Petitioner. This judgment refer

to certain instances which disentitle the party concerned for a prerogative writ.

We see no legal basis to issue the writ prayed for in this application. In any event

the Petitioner is not entitled to relief as a matter of course, as a matter of right or

as a matter of routine. As such we dismiss this application without costs.

n G uJ v'-" Q~ Q.:Y ~-

JUDGE OF~ COURT OF APPEAL

H. N.J. Perera J.

I agree.