==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COUT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA 223/2012 HC Negombo Case No: 200/2008

The Attorney General Vs. Loku Horathal Pedige Suraj Anuruddha alias Chamara

Accused And Now Between Loku Horathal Pedige Suraj Anuruddha alias Chamara

Accused-Appellant Vs. The Attorney General Attorney General's Department Colombo 12

Respondent

I I i i l ! ! I

.. •

CA 223/2012 HC Negombo Case No: 200/2008

Before : Sisira J. de Abrew, J &

P.W.D.C Jayathilake, J

Counsel :Mahendra Kumarasinghe for the accused-appellant,

Hiranjan Peiris SSC for the AG.

Argued & Decided on : 01.11.2013

Sisira J. de Abrew, J.

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases. Learned

Counsel for the accused-appellant after arguing the case makes an

application to withdraw the appeal. The application for the withdrawal of

the appeal is allowed. He further makes an application to grant

concession on the sentence on the basis that the sentence imposed by the

learned trial judge is highly excessive.

1

1 I I j . , • If

According to the facts of this case Surani Nelum Kumari who is the

victim in this case was dragged by the accused-appellant to a place in a

jungle and committed grave sexual abuse on her. The sexual act had

been witnessed by her brother Mahesh de Silva. Brother says that he saw

the accused-appellant who had lowered his trouser on the top of the body

of his sister. After arrival of the brother at the scene, the accused-

appellant ran away from the scene. Mahesh de Silva and Chandrapala

who is the uncle of the victim girl had chased after accused-appellant and

caught him. Whilst he was being brought by the two male persons,

about 30 villagers from the adjoining village had come and rescued the

accused-appellant. Soon after the incident the victim girl made a

complaint to the police. When we consider the evidence led at the trial

we are of the opinion that the charge had been proved by the prosecution

beyond reasonable doubt. I now advert to the question whether the

sentence is excessive. Learned Counsel submits that the accused-

appellant was a soldier attached to the Sri Lanka Army. He submits that

the accused-appellant was in operational areas during the war period of

this country. At the time of the incident he was 22 years old. Considering

all these matters we decide to interfere with the sentence imposed by the

2

learned trial judge. We are of the opinion that the sentence imposed by

the learned trial judge is excessive. We therefore set aside the sentence

imposed by the learned trial judge in count No 1 (3 years) and impose a

sentence of one year rigorous imprisonment and to pay a fine of

Rs.5000/- carrying a default sentence of 3 months simple imprisonment.

On the second count the accused-appellant has been sentenced to a term

of 12 years rigorous imprisonment to pay a fine of Rs. 10000/- carrying a

default sentence of 3 months simple imprisonment and to pay a sum of

Rs. 50000/- as compensation to the victim carrying a default sentence of

12 months simple imprisonment. We set aside the said punishment

imposed by the learned trial judge and impose the following punishment.

On the second count the accused-appellant is sentenced to a term of 5

years rigorous imprisonment, to a pay a fine of Rs. 5000/- carrying a

default sentence of 3 months simple imprisonment and to pay a sum of

Rs. 50000/- to the victim as compensation carrying a default sentence of

12 months simple imprisonment. We direct that the two terms of

imprisonment imposed by this Court (1 year RI and 5 year RI) should

run concurrently. The accused-appellant is present in Court produced by

the Prison Authorities. Both Counsel admit that after the conviction

3

!II 1,

!f\

he has not been released on bail. We direct the prison authorities to

implement the sentence imposed by this Court from the date of

conviction namely 06.09.2012. The learned trial judge is directed to

issue a fresh committal. Subject to the above variation of the sentence

appeal of the appellant is dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

P.W.D.C Jayathilake, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

NRJ-

4

,

ff

fI

I Il,

!t