==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA. 543/2011 (Writ)

& 551/2011

1. Lathpandurage Manjula Promodini Peerera

No. 50, Mahaloluwa, Kirindiwela.

And 75 others

PETITIONERS

Vs.

1. Ceylon Electricity Board

No. 540, Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha

Colombo 2.

2. The Chairman

Ceylon Electricity Board

No. 540, Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha

Colombo 2.

3. General Manager

Ceylon Electricity Board

No. 540, Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha

Colombo 2.

4. Deputy General Manager

(Personnel), Ceylon Electricity Board

No. 540, Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha

Colombo 2.

5. The Secretary

Ministry of Power & Energy

No. 493/1, T. B. Jayah Mawatha,

Colombo 10.

I I I t I 1 j

~ I I j

,-

l

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERATNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Guneratne J.

6. The Secretary

Ministry of Finance and Planning,

The Secretariat, Colombo 1.

RESPONDENTS

Upul Kumarapperuma with U. Dassanayake for the Petitioner

Yuresha Fernando s.s.c. for the Respondents

17.02.2014

03.07.2014

Two similar Writ Applications are filed by 76 Petitioners (C.A 543/2011)

2

and 10 Petitioners (C.A. 551/2011) respectively for a Writ of Mandamus as per

sub-para fbi of the prayer to the petition which reads thus:

I

t

t

t!t1

II

I

i!I

I

I

3

(b) Issue and grant a mandate in the nature of Writ of Mandamus compelling the 1st and/or

2nd and/or 3rd and/or 4th and/or sth Respondents to implement the government policy

pertaining to provide employment for unemployed graduates embodied in P-3, P-4 and

P-S, and place the Petitioners in the positions where the degree is considered as the

basic qualification for the said positions and introduce a scheme of recruitment and

promotions in accordance with the government policy embodied in P-3, P-4 and p-s and

formulate a salary scale in a manner where due recognition is given for holding of the

degree.

Perusal of the prayer gives an indication that the Petitioners urge the

Respondents to implement government policy as in document P3 to P5 and

place the Petitioners in the position where a degree is considered as the basic

qualification and introduce a scheme of promotion and recruitment. The writ

is sought to direct the Respondents to take steps in a particular way. Can it be

done?

The Petitioners claim to be graduates who were appointed as Staff

Coordinators in the year 2005 based on a policy decisions of the Government.

Petitioners rely on circular P3 which refer to a training scheme. As such

Petitioners were selected for in service training scheme as described in para 8

of the petition, bearing No. C.A 543/2011. Since relief sought is the same in

both applications this court would consider the case presented in CA 543/2011

and deliver the judgment accordingly which would bind the Petitioner in CA

I!

I I I

II

Jf t

tII

4

551/2011. Petitioner also rely on circulars P4 & P5 where the 5th & 6th

Respondents directed the2nd Respondent to take immediate steps to fill

existing vacancies considering the degree qualification as the basic, to

implement Government policy. In response the 1st Respondent Board created

the cadre provisions in the 1st Respondent as per P6 and described in para 11

of the petition. Para 12/13 further details are provided re-qualifications etc.

salary scale (M1). The scheme of recruitment and procedure to be adopted I n

the 1st Respondent Board is supported by document P7 (marked in same as X

& Xl). The complainant of the petitioners are contained in paras 20 to 24 of

the petition. It states:

1. The Petitioners state that even though they have been recruited considering the degree

as the basic qualification for their designation, they have been placed in the salary scale

of the clerical service, which scale has been introduced to the employees whose basic

qualification is six subjects in GCE Ordinary Level Examination with 5 credit passes.

2. The Petitioners state that no promotion scheme has been introduced for the post of

Staff Coordinator and they were informed that since they were placed in the M-1 salary

scale, the promotion criteria of the clerical and allied serves is also applicable to them.

3. The Petitioners state that the said decision of placing them in the salary scale of the

clerical service is a violation of the above mentioned Government Policy since the

fundamental objective of the said policy was to provide employment to the unemployed

graduates where the degree was considered as the basic qualification and further there

I,I

5

was specific instructions to create cadre provisions to accommodate the said

unemployed graduates in the aforesaid institutions.

4. The Petitioners state that according to the scheme of recruitment and promotions of

the 1st Respondent, the degree is considered as the basic qualification for the following

positions:

5. (a) Engineering Services

(b) Accounts and Audi Service

(c) Human Resources Service

(d) Ancillary Service (Chemist, Deputy Security Manager, Legal Office, Statistician).

6. The Petitioners state that at the time of the recruitment of the Petitioners there were

vacancies in the aforesaid positions, however the Respondents have only filled

vacancies in the post of electrical engineers and have failed to fill the vacancies in the

other positions. Therefore the failure to appoint qualified persons to the said vacancies

is a violation of the aforesaid government policy.

Petitioners demonstrate that contrary to Government policy the

decision of placing the Petitioners, in the salary scale of the clerical service of

the 1st Respondent is illegal/unlawful etc. Petitioner complain that they have

been placed in a salary scale where the required qualification is 6 subjects at

the G.C.E (Ordinary) Level Examination. By P8a to P8g representations had

been made to support the above to the authorities concerned. There is

material to support the position that the Petitioners filed an application in the

Human Rights Commission (P9). Petitioners have filed report P10 and the

directions given therein as P10a.

i

ti

II

J

6

The position of 1st to 4th Respondents

These Respondents admit the receipt of document PS and

publication of P6. It is stated that a Cabinet Memorandum was presented by

Minister of Finance to give effect to the Government policy to solve

unemployment problem, subject to condition as in R1 (A). Decision of

28.4.2004 has been produced R1. Accordingly the policy decision was

conveyed to all concerned. Steps taken by 1st & 2nd Respondents as per P4 and

by P2 the 2nd Respondent sent a letter giving details of existing vacancies for

74 Electrical Engineers and 8 Civil Engineers and 7 Mechanical Engineers. Prior

to P4 schemes of recruitment had been formulated considering the nature,

mandate and needs of the 1st Respondent Board to create number of

vacancies and posts where a degree qualification was essential to entertain

Government policy (vide R10). The Human Resources Policy Committee of the

1st Respondent took steps to formulate proposals provided by Government. It

is pleaded that 4 new posts were created to accommodate 136 Graduates,

considering the following.

(i) Requirement of the government policies of providing employment to unemployed

graduates.

(ii) Possibility of engaging the services of such graduates in a fruitful manner;

(iii) Comments and views of the CEB Trade Unions;

I

7

(iv) Promotional prospects of the existing CEB employees

Respondents argue and deny that M1 salary scale and promotional

prospects within the same are exclusively for the clerical grade. It is added that

there are numerous posts in M1 category where a degree qualification is

required as a basic qualification (R11). Respondents also state in para 11 that

the Petitioner named therein had been promoted as per the sub para.

Respondents also plead the following:

(i) That there is no provision to recruit external candidates for the Class 1 of the clerical

and parallel services;

(ii) That there had been provision to recruit candidates with a university degree for the

posts such as that of "Statistical Enumerator" based on existing (prior to the new

scheme) Scheme of Recruitment provided by the Ceylon Electricity Board, whereby

the recruitment salary scale is the same as that of a Class 1 member of the Clerical

service (M - 1).

(iii) That therefore, it is noticed that M-1 salary scale is assigned to persons in Class lof

the clerical service as well as for such posts as "Statistical Enumerator" where the

university degree is considered as the basic qualification for recruitment.

(iv) That as such, persons recruited to posts where the university degree is considered as

the basic qualification for the recruitment were also placed on the M-1 salary scale

and that such placement has not, in any way, adversely affected the implementation

of the government policies or the rights of such persons recruited into the services.

I

II i ! IiI

tII( tI I

~ ,

t

f

8

The position of the 5th & 6th Respondents as pleaded is almost the

same as the above Respondents. There are no divergent views expressed by

the 5th & 6th Respondents as all Respondents provide material to demonstrate

Government policy and its implementation. I also find an important document

(R11) which gives certain details of schemes of recruitment and promotions of

the 1st Respondent Board.

This court having considered the material produced by both parties,

observe that the Respondents had at all times complied with Government

policy and attempted in every respect to implement the policy to provide

employment to unemployed graduates. No doubt in the process the

Respondent have to consider the fact that the Government policy need to be

adopted in the best possible way and at the same time look after the interest

of the 1st Respondent Board, and its well being and efficiency of the 1st

Respondent organization itself, as it's an essential industry for the entire

country. In these circumstances and considering the material made available

by the Respondents this court cannot conclude of any breach of statutory or

public duty on the part of the Respondents. There is no justification to

interfere with the role of the Respondents in the process of implementing

Government policy. The grant of mandamus is a matter for the discretion of

I!

t !. I ! I

I

fJl

I)I

I

J

lI

I

9 I Ithe court. It is not a writ of right and not issued as a matter of course 1 CLW

306. A mandamus will not be issued where it is futile and cannot be obeyed.

33 NLR 257. Petitioners should demonstrate a legal right and a legal obligation.

Respondents have provided enough and more material to demonstrate due

compliance with Government policy.

As such this court is not inclined to grant the remedy sought.

Therefore both applications are dismissed without costs.

Applications dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL