==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST TEPUNLIC OF SRI LANKA.

Court of Appeal

Case No:CA(PHC) 102/09

High Court Negomho

Case No:HCRA/99/2009

Magistrate's Court Wattala

Case No: 41436

Officer In Charge,

Miner OffE:llce DfCiiidi,

Police Station,

Kandhana.

Complainant

Vs.

Michael Eisec,

76/34

Thotupola Road,

Welisara,

Ragama.

Accused

AND

In the matter of an application in terms of Chapter XXXVIII of the

Code of Criminal Procedure Act,

1

Konganige Kalyani Fernando,

32/17

Jacob Mawatha,

Ragama.

Claimant

Vs.

Officer In Charge,

Miner Offence Branch,

Police Station,

Kandhana.

Complainant Respondent

And

In the matter of on application in terms of Article lS4P(3)(b) of the

Constitution read with the High Court of the Provinces (Special Provisions) Act No.19 of 1990.

Lanka Orix Leasing Company PLC,

100/1, Sri Jayawardenapura Mawatha,

Rajagigiya.

2

Petitioner

Vs.

1. Konganige Kalyani Fernando,

32/17

Jacob Mawatha,

Ragama.

Claimant Respondent

2. Officer In Charge,

Miner Offence Branch,

Police Station,

Kandhana.

Complainant Rtespondent -Respondent

3. Hon. The Attorney General,

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

~Respondent­And now

In the matter of an appeal in terms of section 331(1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act read with section 11 of the High Court of the

3

t! !

r!!t i ftI

, ! , 1 n.;~fol"e

, i

Provinces (SpeciaJ Provi~;ions) Act No. 19 of199D.

Lanka Orix Leasing Compa ny PLC,

100/1, Sri Jayawardenapura ]vlawatha,

Rajagigiya.

VI" ".

1. Officer In Charge,

Minor Offence Branch,

Police Station,

Kandhana.

Compl at!!:! nL:J~~Sn9J)d~nl=

ReipQnd~nl

2. Hon. The Attorney General, "'-j A~rney General's Department

Colombo 12.

Counsel : Sumeda Mahawanniarachchi for the Petitioner

Appellant.

: Anoopa De Silva SC for the A.G.

Argued on : 13.03.2015

Decided on : 01.09.2015

CASE- NO- CA/(PHC)- 102/2009- JUDGMENT- 31.08.2015

P.R. Walgama, J

The Petitioner- Appellant being the Absolute Owner of the

vehicle bearing No. WP HK- 0147 ,leased the said vehicle to the

Claimant- Respondent on a lease Agreement.

The matter to be resolved, surfaced as a result of the accused

having used the alleged vehicle for, transporting 1440 drams of

illicit liquor, and possessing the said in contravention of the

provisions of the Exercise Ordinance.

The Accused pleaded to the afore said charges and the

Learned Magistrate, imposed a fine.

It is apparent from the proceedings of the Magistrate Court of

vVattala in the case bearing No. 41436, in l.vhich p!"0ceeding~

the Accused was convicted, and the Claimant, being the Registered

Owner of the said vehicle made an application for the release

of the vehicle, pending the vehicle inquiry, in terms of the

5

Criminal Procedure Code. Pursuant to the afore said the

Learned Magistrate made order, for the Claimant to tender a

no objection letter from the Absolute Owner for the release of

the said vehicle to the Claimant. But at the request of the

Claimant the Absolute Owner, the OREX LEASING COMPANY PLC,

was present in Court for the inquiry, and vehicle confiscation

lJrop~~( commenced on 3rd November 2008.

At the conclusion of the inquiry the Learned Magistrate

confiscated the said vehicle, by order dated 1st December 2008.

Being aggrieved by the said impugned order the Petitioner,

invoked the revisionary jurisdiction of the High Court of

Negambo, seeking to set aside the said order of the Learned

Magistrate dated 01,12.2008.

In the above said revision application of the petitioner was

dismissed by the Learned High Court Judge by his order dated

20.08.2009, on the premis, that the Petitioner has failed to

adduced any valid reason for the delay in making the

applic:1tion in revision, and besides the fact that the petitioner

is relying on the fact that the witness who gave evidence was

on the belief that he is supporting the application of the

Claimant, and not the confiscation inquiry. But it is ostensible

from the evidence adduced by the representative of the

Absolute owner, that the absolute owner has agreed for the

release of the vehicle to the Claimant. In tt.e abDve setting the

Learned High Court Judge was of the vievl/ that no grave

6

tI!Iw!"fr

~!

~i

IIiII

I

I

~l

!i!II

injustice has been caused to the Petitioner, and as such the

Learned High Court Judge has dismissed the application of the

Petitioner. Being aggrieved by the said order of the Learned

High Court Judge, the Petitioner-App211ant has appealed to this

Court seeking to set aside the order of the Learned Magistrate,

and the order of the Learned High Court Judge dated

20.08.2009. The facts giving rise to the filing of the appeal

may be summarized, as follows;

That the Learned High Court Judge has erred in arriving at the

conclusion that no miscarriage of justice has been caused to

the Appellant,

Further that the order of the Learned Magistrate's order is

contrary to law;

That the confiscation of the vehicle is not automatic, but shall

be lia ble for confiscation.

As per proceedings dated 03.11.2008, it is apparent that the

Representative of the Appellant, in his testimony to court has

consp.nted to the release of the vehicle to the Claimant. There

after the Learned Magistrate by his order has stated the fact

that the Accused had been engaged in the illicit act of

transporting the above. The Learned Magistrate was of the view

that the Claimant had knowledge of the said illegal act of the

Accused.

I I

I

~ II

The counsel for the Appellant planks his position mainly on

Sectinn 433 A of the Act No. 12 of 1990, Civil Procedure Code

(Amendment) to succeed in this appeal.

The above section reflects thus;

1/ In the case of a vehicle let under a hire purchase or

leasing agreement, the person registered as the absolute owner

of such vehicle under the Motor Traffic Act, shall be deemed

to be the person entitled to possession of such vehicle for the

purpose of this Chapter."

I t is to be mentioned that the above section should be

understood in the context of the procedure applicable to the

confiscation of a vehicle, after a conviction of a charge under

the Forest Ordinance, Animals Act and Exercise Ordinance. It is

trite law that after a conviction under the above Acts, if the

vehicle involved, belongs to a third party, it is mandatory that

the Magistrate should hold an inquiry before the confiscation

of such vehicle.

The above concept was first recognized In the case or

MANAWADU .VS. ATTORNEY GENERAL (198'7) 2 Sri L.R-30,

wherein His Lord Ship has observed thus;

"By section 7 of Act No. 13 of 1982 it was not intended to

deprive an owner of his vehicle used by the offender in

committing a (forest offence' without his (owner's) knowledge

and without his participatit)n. The word forfeited must be ..

8

tIII II !! tf

II!IiI

J!II

I

>1

i

•i

,

!,I

-I

given the meaning 'liable to be forfeited' so as to avoid the

injustice that would flow on the construction that forfeiture of

the vehicle is automatic on conviction of the accused. The

amended sub section 40 does not exclude by necessary

implication the rule of 'audi alteram partem.' The owner of the

lorry who is not a party to the case is entitled to ce heard on

the question of forfeiture of the lorry, : f he satisfies the court

that the accused committed the offence without his knowledge

or participation, his lorry will not be liable to

forf€iture."( emphasis added)

More over Sharvananda CJ had considered many cases in

similar matters in the legal parlor in the above determination. In

the case of INSPECTOR FERNANDO .VS. MATHER- (1932) 1 CLW-

249- where in it was held thus;

"In construing Section 51 of the Excise Ordinance that

corresponds to section 40 of ':he Forest Ordinance, has

expressed thus;

"where an offence has been committed under the Excise

Ordinance, no order of confiscation should be made under

Section 51 of the Ordinance as regards the conveyance used to

commit the offence, e.g. a boat or motor car unless two

things occur,

a. That the owner should be given an opportunity of being

heard against it;

9

AND

b. Where the owner himself is not convicted of the offence,

no order should be made against the owner, unless he is

implicated in the offence which render the thing liable to

confiscation.

The said concept was endorsed in the case of THE FINANCE

COMPANY PLC .VS. AGAMPODI MAHAPEDIGE PRIYANTHA

CHAN DANA -SC APPEAL _. No. 105 AI 2008 decided on 30.09.2010.

Her Lady Ship Justice Shiranee Bandaranayaka was of the view

that on a consideration of the ratio decidendi in the line of

cases, if the owner of the vehicle in question was a third

party, no order of confiscation shall h~ made if that owner

had proved to the satisfaction of the court that he had taken

all precautions to prevent the use of the said vehicle for the

commission of the offence. The ratio decidendi of all the

decis ions also asserts that the owner has to establish the said

matter on a balance of probability.

It is apparent from the decisions as stated above that the

Appellant should(absolute owner) establish the said conditions,

for it to repossess the vehicle concerned.

Therefore it is apparent from the Lo.se 111 1 1 JldllU

Learned Magistrate, has afforded an opportunity to show cause

before he confiscated the alleged vehicle. A representative of the

Appellant adduced evidence to the effect that the Appellant has

no objection in releasing the alleged vehicle to the Claimant-

10 1

i1

Respondent. At the conclusion of the ir~quiry the Learned

Magistrate has confi:;cated the ,),lld 'v'2f icL; Cll t!iC bas~.; that

the Claimant had knowledge of the commission of illegal act.

Therefore the Appellant cannot be heard to say that the

Learned Magistrate did not hear the absolute owner before his

determination to confiscate the vehicle. The position of the

Appellant is that a Representative of the Company was under

the i.mpression that he gave evidence at the inquiry as to the

release of the vehicle and . not regardiEg the confiscation, and

as such the Learned Magistrate has arrived at a erroneous

conclusion by confiscating the said vehicle.

Hence it W2.S held in the 2bove C?51? "thal-hoth the al:'ls('l!u1:~

owner and the registered owner should be treated equally and

there cannot be any type of privileges offered to an absolute

owner such as Finance Company in terms of the applicable

law in the country. Accordingly, it would be necessary for the

absolute owner to show the steps he had taken to prevent

the use of the vehicle for the commission of the offence and

that the said offence had been committed without his

knowledge.

The rights of the absolute owner was decided in the case of

ORIENT FINANCIAL SERVICES CORPORATION LTD .vs. HaN.

ATTORNEY GENERAL - dec:ided on 10.12.2013, which held thus;

"under the Section 433A of the Code of Criminal Procedure

the absolute owner though entitled to possession of

Act,

the

11

I!

!

t

f

fIif-J il

""'"

fIt! tII

. .

vehicle, it could obtain the possession of the vehicle only if the

court decides to release the vehicle but not as of right."

In the said backdrop I see no reascn to interfere with the

orders of the Learned Magistrate and the Learned High Court

Judge made in respect of the Confiscation, of the vehicle in

issue.

Accordingly appeal is dismissed subject to a cost of Rs.l0,OOOj-

Appeal is dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COUR'!' elF .~..PP:SA!.

vV.M.]\lMalinie Gunara thne, J

I agree.

JUDGE, OJ' 'IHE COURT OF APPEAL

12

II

-I

! II!Il