==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

c.A. Writ Application No: 613/2007

D.R. 2350

1.

2.

3.

4.

In the matter of an application for a mandate in

the nature of Writ of Certiorari.

S.A.S.Karunawathie Perera,

No.245/3 D.5.5enanayake Veediya,

Kandy.

Petitioner

Vs

People's Bank No.75 Sir Chiththampalam A

Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 02.

W.Karunajeewa,

Chairman, People's Bank No.75 Sir

Chiththampalam A Gardiner Mawatha,

Colombo 02.

Sarojini Gabadage,

Inquiring Officer,

Land Redemption Department,

1st Floor , W elikada Plaza,

Rajagiriya.

S.N.K.Kamala Guruge

215,2/8, Udyanaya Road,

Colombo 6.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued on

Decided on

S.Sriskandarajah J,

2

5. P.G.J.Sithy Sawahir

6. M.G.M.G.M.Mohamed Hanafie,

Both of 245/3, D.s.senanayake Veediya,

Kandy.

7. Public Trustee,

No.2, Bullers Road Colombo 7.

Respondent

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J.

Chamantha Weerakoon Unambuwa,

for the Petitioner

Kushan de Alwis with Kaushalya Nawaratne

for the 1 st to 3rd Respondents.

Manohara de Silva PC

for the 4th Respondent.

30.06.2010

06.06.2011

The Petitioner in this application has sought a writ of certiorari to quash the decision of

the 1st Respondent People's Bank dated 12.06.2007 marked P8(a) to acquire the property

in question under Section 71(4) of the Finance Act No.11of 1963 as amended. The

Petitioner and the 4th Respondents are two sisters and their mother Ceciliyanona

3

Rajapakse was the original owner of the property in question. She mortgaged the

property on two bonds to one S.I.de.La Motte. The bonds were put in suit and

judgement was entered in favour of the creditor de La Motte. He died and his estate

was administered by the Public Trustee 7th Respondent. At the auction held by court the

Public Trustee purchased the property in question and became owner thereof.

On representation made by the heirs of the deceased mortgagor to the Public Trustee he

had agreed to transfer the said property. An agreement was entered into and an

advance of Rs.lO,OOO/ - was accepted by the Public Trustee from the Petitioner.

Thereafter, the Petitioner filed action in D~strict Court of Kandy case No.13226/L to

compel the Public Trustee to execute a conveyance in her favour. While this

proceedings were pending the 4th Respondent a child (descendant) of the original

owner made an application to the People's Bank for redemption in terms of Section

71(1) of the Finance Act No.11 of 1973 as amended. After an inquiry the Bank made a

decision to acquire the property by its decision dated 09.07.1992. In the meantime a

conveyance has been made in favour of the Petitioner by the Registrar of District Court

of Kandy in pursuance of an order made in case No 13226/L.

Subsequently the 1st Respondent Bank by its decision dated 24.08.1992 reversed the

decision made on 09.07.1992. The decision to revoke the order was challenged by the 4th

Respondent by way of writ of certiorari in CA Application No 710/92. The Court of

Appeal issued a writ to quash the said order of revocation on the ground that no fair

hearing was given to the parties affected by the said order and directed the Bank to

hold a fresh inquiry to decide whether the decision to acquire the said property should

be reversed. At the inquiry the Petitioner, W.M.G.M.Lebbe Mohamed Mubarak who is

the husband of the 5th Respondent and the father of the 6th Respondent and the 4th

Respondent gave evidence. After the conclusion of the evidence written submissions

were tendered by the Petitioner and the 4th Respondents. The 3rd Respondent

recommended that the property in question be acquired by the Bank. By notice dated

4

12.06.2007 marked P8(a) the 1st Respondent Bank notified the Petitioner under Section

71(4) of the Finance Act that the 1st Respondent Bank has decided to acquire the

property in question.

The Petitioner in this application challenged the aforesaid decision on three grounds;

firstly the Petitioner contended that the said decision was made on an erroneous

conclusion that the Petitioner is not the current owner of the premises. In arriving at

this conclusion due consideration was not given to the fact that the transfer of the

property by Deed No.589 to the Petitioner was in terms of a court order entered into on

29.01.1982 on which date the Petitioner became entitled to the said property subject to

the performance by her of her under taking to pay Rs.45,000.00 on 3.02.1982 well before

the prohibition notice dated 17.02.1982 was given. The Registrar of the District Court, in

executing the said transfer merely gave effect to the order of court.

The policy and the purpose of Part VIII of the Finance Act lay down a mechanism to

enable persons who have lost their property in circumstances set out in Section 71(1) of

the said part of the Act with the assistance of the People's Bank. It is an admitted fact

that the Bank on an application made by the 4th Respondent who is a descendant of the

original owner of the said property entertained the application of the acquisition of the

said property. When the Bank entertains an application for redemption of the said

property certain mandatory steps have to be taken by the Bank in relation to the said

property. This is provided under Section 71(2A) of the Finance Act No 11 of 1963 as

amended by Finance and Ceylon State Mortgage Bank (Amendment) Law, No 16 of

1973 as follows:

71(2A) Where the Bank entertains an application for the acquisition of any premises

referred to in subsection (1), the Bank shall-

(a) Cause notice of the fact to be sent by registered post to the owner of the

premises: and

5

(b) Cause a copy of such notice to be delivered or transmitted to the proper Registrar

of Lands for registration, setting out the prescribed particulars relating to such

premises and stating that such premises may be acquired under this part of this

Act.

Every notice under paragraph (b) shall be registered by the Registrar of Lands

in the manner prescribed in the Registration of Documents Ordinance for the

registration of an instrument affecting or relating to land and shall be deemed for

such purposes to be an instrument affecting or relating to premises the

prescribed particulars of which are set out in such notice.

Provided that if the Bank determines that such premises shall not be acquired

for the purposes of this part of this Act, the Bank shall forth with cancel such

notice and give written information of the cancellation to the Registrar of Lands

who shall register such cancellation.

By the above provisions once the notice of an application for acquisition of a property is

issued by the Bank and registered in the relevant land registry it is considered as an

instrument affecting the premises. Until such notice is cancelled by the Bank by a

written notice there will be an encumbrance on the said premises. Therefore if the land

is sold after the issue of this notice it will be subject to the said encumbrance. Therefore

when the Bank decides to acquire the said land it could by a vesting order acquire the

said land irrespective of the right of a subsequent owner of the property. The Bank in

the instant case issued the prohibition notice on 17.02.1982. The Deed No 589 was

executed in favour of the Petitioner in relation to the said premises on 05.04.1982

attested by C.N.Gnanasekaram, Notary Public. The requirement of the registration of

the prohibition notice in the Land Registry is to notice a prospective buyer the

encumbrance attached to the premises. The Petitioner who has purchased the premises

with the encumbrance has to face the consequences. The Petitioner's claim that the said

property was not sold by the owner of the property who was prohibited to sell the

6

property by the prohibition notice but under a court order by the Registrar of the Court

and therefore the ownership of the property has passed to the Petitioner without any

encumbrance has no merit. The Register is performing an official function on an order

of court in executing the deed on behalf of the owner of the property. He cannot

transfer any right other than the right the owner has in the said property. The owner's

right is subject to the right of the bank to acquire the said property. Hence the title

obtained by the Petitioner is also subject to the right of the Bank to acquire the said

property.

The Petitioner also challenged the acquisition on the basis that the 4th responded is not a

person entitled to make an application under Section 71(1) of the said Act. The 4th

Respondent as a descendant of the original owner has the capacity to redeem the

property and hence the provision of Part VIII of the Finance Act cannot be invoked.

Whether the 4th Respondent a descendant of the original owner who made the

application under the relevant provision has the capacity to redeem the property

mortgaged by the original owner is a question of fact. It is the inquiring officer who is

empowered by the statute has the power to inquire into and determine this question. In

this case he has determined that the 4th Respondent is entitled to make this application.

A Court exercising judicial review considers the legality of an order and it rarely

interferes in an order made based on facts unless it is irrational. The Petitioner has not

established that the said decision is irrational.

The Petitioner has also challenged the decision on the basis that the premises cannot be

acquired by the Bank as it has no power to do so under Section 71(2)(d) of the Finance

Act, as it is reasonably required by him for his residence. The 4th Respondent submitted

that the Petitioner has sold part of the premises and leased out the balance portion of

premises No 245/3 leaving a single room for herself and she is at present residing at

Pinnagolla Estate Thalathuoya. Hence the 4th Respondent submitted that the claim of

the Petitioner that this premises is reasonably required by the Petitioner is false. As I

7

have observed above the question whether the Petitioner reasonably required the said

premises for residence is a question of fact and this matter was considered by the

inquiring officer and she has decided to acquire this property. In these circumstances

this court is not inclined to interfere with the decision of the Respondents to acquire the

said premises.

For the aforesaid reasons this court dismisses the application of the Petitioner without

costs.

~././~.

Judge of the Court of appeal