==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA (PHC) 14/2005

High Court of Hambantota.

Case No. H.C.A. 76/2002

In the matter of an appeal under

Article 154 P( 6) of the Constitution

of the Democratic Socialist Republic

of Sri Lanka. Read with section 9 of

the High Court of Provinces (Special

Provision) Act No.19 of 1990.

D .M. Ratnayake,

Assistant Agrarian Development

Magistrate Court of Hambantota. Commissioner,

Case No: 48957

Hambantota.

Applicant

Vs.

M.M. Piyadasa,

4th Miles Post,

Punchihenayagama,

Ridiegama.

Rt:s pOlidc:iit AND

1

M.M. Piyadasa,

4th Miles Post,

Punchihenayagama,

Ridiegama.

Respondent/Petitioner Vs.

1. D .M. Ratnayake,

Assistant Agrarian Development

Commissioner,

Agrarian Development Office,

Hambantota.

Applicant/Respondent

2. Needa Mebal Abesinghe,

Oanakaweka Road,

Pelawatta,

Battaramulla.

2nd Respondent

And Now Between

M.M. Piyadasa,

4 th Miles Post,

Punchihenayagama,

Ridiegama.

2

Before

Vs.

Respondent/Petitioner / Appellant

I. D.M. Ratnayake,

Assistant Agrarian Development

Commissioner,

Agrarian Development Office,

Hambantota.

Applicant/Respondent/ Respondent

2. Needa Mebal Abesinghe,

Oanakaweka Road,

Pelawatta,

Battaramulla.

2nd Respondent/ Respondent

: W.M.M.Malinie Gunarathne, J

: P.R. Walgama, J

Counsel : W. Dayarathne PC appellant with

: P.D.D.W. Ananda, W.K.M.G. Ragithe Y. Thenekoon for

Petitioner - Appellant.

3

Argued on : 06.07.2015

Decided on: 16.10.2015

CASE- NO-CA (PHC)- 14/20051 JUDGMENT- 16.10.2015

P.R.Waigama, J

The Petitioner- Appellant(herein after called and referred to as

the Appellant) by this appeal has impugned the order of the

Learned High Court Judge dated 30.11.2004, and the order of

the Learned Magistrate dated 12.08.2002.

The pertinent background to the instant proceedings are as

follows;

It is common ground that the Petitioner- Appellant was the

tenant cultivator of the 2nd Respondent, in the land called

referred as KELAMBAGAHA KUMBURA, containing in extent

5 acres, situated at Koggala, Ambalanthota.

The 2nd Respondent had made an application to the Assistant

Commissioner of Agrarian Services for payment of arrears of rent

In terms of Section 18(1) of the Agrarian Services Act No.58

of 1979, amended by NO.4 of 1991, due from the Appellant

who was the tenant cultivator of the said land. Pursuant to the

said application, the Appellant was noticed on many times to

appear before investigating officer of Agrarian Services for the

inquiry, and as he was not present it was heard ex parte and

was decided that the Appellant has defaulted in payment to

4

the value of 10 bushels of paddy. It IS seen from the

proceedings that the Appellant has never paid the said arrears

and hence the 2nd Respondent has written to the Commissioner

of Agrarian Services to terminate the Appellant's servIce as the

tenant cultivator from the said land. Thereupon the Assistant

Commissioner of Agrarian Services had informed the Appellant

by notice In terms of Section Ises 10(2)(3) of the Agrarian

Services Act No. 46 of 2000 to hand over the

possessIOn of the paddy land In Issue.

As the Appellant did not vacate the above paddy land the

Assistant Commissioner of Agrarian Services, acting under

Section 8(1) of Agrarian Services Act No. 46 of 2000, moved

the Learned Magistrate to make order, to hand over the said

paddy land to the 2nd Respondent.

Sequent to the above application, the Learned Magistrate has

made an order, to the fiscal to hand over the paddy land to

the 2nd Respondent, and same was accepted by the Power of

Attorney holder for the 2nd Respondent accordingly.

Being aggrieved by the said order of the Learned Magistrate,

the Petitioner-Appellant, came by way of a Revision applIcatIon

to the Provincial High Court of Hambantota, to have the said

order set aside or vacate.

The Learned High Court Judge by his order has considered

the vital issues raised by the Petitioner and arrived at the

conclusion mentioned under.

5

In the said application to the High Court the Petitioner has

contended that the 1 st Respondent has decided the claim of the

2nd Respondent to the effect that the Petitioner is in arrears of

rent, without hearing him. It is alleged by the Petitioner that

the notices sent by the 1 st Respondent, which are marked as

P2,P3,P4 are addressed to one N.M.Piyadasa where as he

IS M.M.Piyadasa and as such he did not receive the above

purported documents. In effect he could not act according to

the instructions given in those documents. But the 1st and the

2nd Respondents stated that the said documents were handed

over to the Petitioner Appellant accordingly. It was also alleged

by the 1 st and the 2nd Respondents that the Petitioner-Appellant

has assailed the said order of the Learned Magistrate only

after two years of the said order. The Petitioner-Appellant's

position as to the delay was that the said documents did not

bear his name accurately. But the Learned High Court Judge

was not inclined to accept the same.

The 2nd Respondent has contended that, the notices sent by the

1 st Respondent was duly served on the Appellant. Nevertheless

he has refused to appear before the inquiry and sent his father

M.M.Babasingho. In the above setting the Appellant is now

estopped from denying the receipt of the said documents which

has been duly served on him. The document marked 2V bears

ample testimony to that effect.

The Learned High Court Judge In dealing with the contentions

of the Petitioner Appellant regarding the way in which the 1st

6

Respondent held the inquiry, and failure on his part to inform

the Appellant, it is said that the Petitioner- Appellant has signed

the said documents which were sent through the registered

post. The said position is fortified by documents marked 1 V 1

and 1 V2. Therefore it is apparent that the Petitioner Appellant's

version is not trustworthy, and should be rejected in limine.

The Petitioner- Appellant has alleged the said inquiry was held

by the person who was not authorized to hold such inquiry,

and as such the inquiry which was held by officer, is not

valid. But it is salient to note that, in terms of Section 18( 1)

of the Agrarian Services Act No. 58 of 1979 amended by Act

No. 4 of 1991 the Commissioner of Agrarian Services IS

empowered to appoint any officer for the purpose of holding

such inquiry.

The Commissioner of Agrarian Services had gIven due notice to

the Petitioner -Appellant as to the said appointment, but

nevertheless had failed to appear at the inquiry. As the result

of his nonappearance before the inquiry it was determined that

the Petitioner Appellant should hand over the vacant possession

to the 2nd Respondent.

In the said backdrop it is abundantly clear that the Learned

High Court Judge has analyzed the facts and the legal matrix

In the correct perspective, which does not warrant a variation

In the impugned order. Further more the Learned Magistrate

has acted within the four corners of his authority, and had

7

order to the fiscal to hand over the posseSSIOn of the paddy

land, to the 2nd Respondent.

In the above setting this court see no plauslDle reason to

interfere with the said impugned orders of the Learned High

Court Judge and the Learned Magistrate as stated above. Hence

I dismiss the Appeal accordingly.

Hence the appeal is dismissed without costs

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M.Malinie Gunarathne, J

I agree,

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

8

t t i t I! I1 I I' I ! i I II I,

j

1 ! i l f

~ l ! I !

~