==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I

J

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 262/2010

H.C. Galle 2374

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

P. R. Walgama J.

K. W. Thilak Kumara

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDNET

Tenny Fernando for the Accused-Appellant

S. Thurairajah D.S.G. for the Complainant-Respondent

12.11.2014

19.11.2014

1

It 1 I !!I

t!I;l

I

I I 1

I 1 I {

\ i

2

GOONERATNE J.

When this appeal was taken up for hearing, learned counsel for the

1st Accused-Appellant, submitted to court that he has instruction from his

client not to canvass the conviction, but to mitigate the sentence imposed by

the learned High Court Judge on 08.12.2011, only as regards count No. (1).

Learned counsel also indicated that he would only canvass the sentence of 15

years rigorous imprisonment imposed on the said count for culpable homicide

not amounting to murder on the basis of grave and sudden provocation, and a

fine of Rs. 25,000/- which carries a default sentence of 12 months simple

imprisonment.

In view of above this court only need to consider whether in view the

circumstances of this case the sentence and fine imposed on the Appellant as

regards count No. (1) of the indictment could be varied. On the indictment

presented to the High court, three Accused were charged for the offence of

murder (count No. (1)) and attempted murder (count No. (2)). The 2

nd and 3

rd

Accused were acquitted after trial on the charge of murder. The 3

rd Accused

was acquitted on both counts but the 2

nd Accused was only convicted on the

2nd count in the indictment.

(

1Ir

!

I

3

The material submitted to this court by either counsel suggest that

the 1st Accused-Appellant had been interested in the daughter of the

deceased's sister living elsewhere from the scene of the crime. It was also

suggested that the main witness the son of the deceased who was the victim

on the 2

nd count of the indictment and who was also an injured person had

been staying in the deceased sister's house to give some protection to the

sister's daughter in whom the 1st Accused had been interested and was

attempting to approach the girl at various stages. Submissions were also made

by learned counsel on either side that prior to the date of incident the girl's

house had been stoned or pelted with stones, which resulted the witness

giving some protection to the sister of the deceased and her daughter.

On the day of the incident the deceased who was a Grama Sevaka

and his son (Witness No. (1)) left home at about 7.30 a.m on a motor cycle. On

the way they saw the Accused-appellant and the deceased stopped the motor

cycle and walked up to the Accused-Appellant and told the Accused-Appellant

not to interfere and cause any trouble to the daughter of the deceased's sister.

This has resulted in an exchange of words and the two parties had a fight. In

the process the deceased had been stabbed by the Accused-Appellant and

the learned Deputy Solicitor General indicated that there were several injuries

I

4

caused to the deceased as a result of stabbing. The Medico Legal Report shows

one grievous injury and five non grievous injuries. Injury No. (3) and (6) caused

by a blunt weapon and injury Nos. (i), (2), (4) & (5) by a sharp cutting weapon.

In the above facts and circumstances this court observes that there

was some form of provocation to cause death to the deceased by the Accused-

Appellant. I would refer to Premalal Vs. Attorney General 2000(2) SLR Pg. 403

a case where cumulative and continuous provocation was considered.

Held: Per Kulatilaka J.

"Our Judgments interpreted the phrase 'sudden provocation" to mean that provocation

should consist of a single act which occurred immediately before the killing so that there

was no time for the anger to cool and the act must have been such that it would have made

a reasonable man to react in the manner as the accused did".

"Of late we observe a development in other jurisdictions where courts have taken a more

pragmatic view of the mitigatory plea of provocation ... in a series of cases Court took into

consideration the prior course of relationship between the accused and his victim".

(i) The act of stabbing cannot be taken in isolation. The accused appellant's ambition of

becoming a Lecturer was shattered. He could not face the Campus community

because he and M had been seen as confirmed lovers in that community. His only

consolation had been M. He was losing her. The unusual behaviour reflects the

mental agony and the strain that the accused was undergoing because of the

haunting thought that he was going to lose her.

i ! 1 I 1 I t

I

5

(ii) It could be inferred that he had lost all self control at the point of time he stabbed

her. The brutal manner in which he attached the girl who was so precious to him,

and the attempted suicide are indicative of the fact that he in fact had lost this self

control at the time of stabbing.

We have considered the relevant facts of this case, but we are not in

a position to make any drastic variations to the sentence. However having

taken into account the plea of provocation and the resulting sudden fight

between the Accused-Appellant and the deceased party we would vary the

sentence and impose a sentence of 12 years rigorous imprisonment. This court

is not inclined to alter the fine imposed by the learned High Court Judge and its

default sentence. Subject to above variation of the term of imprisonment, this

appeal is dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

P. R. Walgama J.

I agree.

~,-t:..- ~~ JUDGE~PEAl

t \

~ ! I!

~ It

~ [ f I I f t , , i ! I I I I I I i 1