==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C. A. Sisira Bandula alias Mahathun

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

C.A. 122/2006

H.C. Welikada 309/2006

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDNET

R. Arsekularatne P.c. for the Accused-Appellant

Dappula de Livera A.s.G. for the Complainant-Respondent

17.06.2014 & 20.06.2014

09.10.2014

1

1 J I I

2

GOONERATNE J.

Accused-Appellant was indicted in the High Court of Colombo in

terms of the provisions of Poisons, Opium and Dangerous Drugs Ordinance as

Amended, for possession of 91.2 grams of Heroin on or about 24.6.1999 as

described in the said indictment. In brief the prosecution case is as follows:

The evidence of witness No. (1) for the prosecution, Inspector of

Police, Priyantha Perera of the Narcotics Bureau testified that information was

received from a private informant, by a Constable of the Narcotics Bureau

called Senaratne P.e. 30762, and he had recorded the information in his

pocket note book. Thereafter a police party of seven were organized, and they

proceeded for the raid in vehicle No. 61-7584. Prior to proceeding for the raid,

it is in evidence that the said witness inspected the vehicle and satisfied

himself that there were no dangerous substance or drugs in the vehicle, and

that he took all necessary steps and collected the required material to proceed

on the raid.

J

r I I I

3

The witness Priyantha Perera was seated in front and witness

Senaratne who received the information was seated behind with others in the

vehicle. They proceeded towards Reclamation Road, Modera Aluth Mawatha

and Madampitiya Road and came near the Muslim burial grounds, and P.e.

Senaratne and Inspector Perera got down from the vehicle and P.e. Senaratne

went to the opposite side of the road and met the informant. The informant

provided them with details of information pertaining to drugs and with the

informant the police party came near the 'Thotalanga' roundabout. Thereafter

the police team proceeded on foot and came to a place called 'pansalwatte'. It

was 6.30 a.m. Informant then had informed the police party that the person

concerned (Accused) was coming from the direction of the roundabout. As

shown by the informant two persons, one dressed in a pair of shorts and a

T-shirt and the other in a sarong with a t-shirt had been identified. The one

wearing a pair of shorts was identified as 'Mahatun' the Accused-Appellant.

Witness Priyantha Perera accosted the Accused-appellant who had with him a

bag in his band. On searching the bag which the Accused-Appellant had with

him, they detected three heroin parcels. At the time the police party accosted

them and the two of them attempted to run or flee but the police team was

tII!

!i

f

t

• 4

able to bring them under control. The other person who was wearing a sarong

who was with the Accused-Appellant is known as Tarzan'. Both were taken in

to custody, and Tarzan also had drugs in his possession. Having taken the

Accused-Appellant to custody the police party also went to the house of

Accused-Appellant which was situated in close proximity. House was searched

and the time was about 6.55/7.00 a.m. His wife was in the house and she had

cried. No drugs were found in the house. Thereafter the Accused-Appellant

was taken to the Narcotics Bureau and from that point all necessary official

steps up to the point of dispatch of parcel to the Government Analyst had

been led in evidence by the prosecution.

The above seems to be the basic version of the main prosecution

witness. Learned President's eounsel and the learned Additional Solicitor

General made lengthy submissions. However before I refer to them and deal

with it I would in a gist consider the points elicited in cross-examination of the

main witness for the prosecution.

In cross-examination of the main witness the following matters inter

alia were elicited.

(1) P.C, Senaratne received information from the informant.

(2) All officers need to maintain notes and filed in a separate file.

• 5

(3) Reported for work at 5.20 a.m. and was making preparation for the raid,

but no specific instructions received about the raid. It is better explained

by the witness as ((~ er)tm>OQC:> ~~ G)~d ~(!~ eD~t. e:ltC:>@®

ero(S)(!oS O)C5lmlO 00 ere:>Q~ Ci)oi~oote:>~ ~~~ e»®C.5 Q)@)

S~. ~ ~ ~~ e:l@ e:ltC:>@® ~c:> (!Q)C.O) G)t»~ ~. era

Im)OO>@G)C:> ct~) O~ OO~~ ~~~ ~>o~d @Q»(!G)e5)

e:ltC:>@® ~ ~eS» (!@)e:ltB) lm>Oal» ~".

(4) Receipt of information and raid

(5) Admits that on 23rd there was a special duty to go on a raid.

(6) Reject the position that evidence is given to suit the notes made by

witness.

(7) Rejects that received information about several persons involved in this

incident, and that several involved in packeting heroin.

(8) Received information about the Accused that he had collected heroin

and to take him into custody within one hour.

(9) Accosted the Accused near Pansalwatta and Accused was so excited

when he was caught. He was caught near a small two storied house.

(10)When the Accused was taken to his house a very excited state of affairs

prevailed. {(1m@Q)@lmlO oo~d erttlS ~).

(11) Tarzan was also taken into custody. Nothing detected in the house.

(12) No heroin detected from Accused's house

(13) About the difficulties faced in going for raids.

(14) Suggestion rejected by witness

! II

f

6

This court wish to observe that the cross-examination of the main

witness does not seem to have taken the defence case to an acceptable

position to absolve the Accused party, though court should not finally decide

until the defence case is considered and analysed.

However in view of the position taken by the learned President's

Counsel, I wish to observe that once cross-examination of a witness had been

closed by the defence, re-examination of the witness need to commence to

explain matters in cross-examination which could leave the story of a witness

partly heard unless re-examined. These are provisions relating to the law of

evidence, as law permits the full account of the witness could be fathomed

only at the close of the re-examination. Since the Accused-Appellant's attempt

to demonstrate that the main witness contradicts his own evidence. It is

necessary to look at the position whether heroin was in the possession of

Tarzan and not the Accused? I will incorporate in this Judgment part of the re-

examination to understand the point in a better way.

g: C(5)t» ~ ®~> m(!)>C) C!COldes» ~>, 'C»~' @(5) a>m ®t» ~~ 00)(.0>

~a» aco>?

c:oo!>

g: ~ ®t» ~~ g®>m:o B>@ees5 • es>~ ~ooC) eroo ®t» ~~C)

oaQ)~?

l!

I

I l l 1 I I I

7

e:(i)!)

Q: ~ • 6)~C) Q(!)Q>es5(J 00 6)~Q)~~?

~® ®t» ~~ ~65 (80): Q~: 30762 ~oo C5)>O~~. ~®

E)t»6)00~~ @Q» C5>t» ~~~ ~65 ®) C5)>O~. C)lQ65 C06)

~C5>@CO)@~ ~Qx.o) ~ C5)>eDID ~c5emCoo C5)>O~~ ~).

Q: C)lQ65 @C5> C~~ Sco-m ~~?

e:~~

Q: ~® E)~~~csS65 @Q» C5>t» C5»flDID ~ Q)tcs3 ~~ ~®X3?

e:(i)!)

Q: ~) t»Q)6) E)C) C)~cs3 C5)~ C5>t» e5e» ~® ~ ~~C) eo®Q)65(J

~@)~?

The above material seems to fill in the gaps if at all if correctly

understood which makes the position somewhat different from way the

defence argues. Therefore I cannot fault the trial Judge's views as regards

above.

However let me now refer to the other submissions and points raised

by learned President's counsel, as follows:

\

"

~

8

It was submitted that the trial in this case commenced on or about

November 2001 and the Judgment was delivered on December 2006. The trial

Judge who delivered the Judgment never heard any evidence, and at least four

Judges heard this case other than the trial Judge who delivered the Judgment.

Defence case commenced on 27.10.2005. Learned President's counsel refer to

the order of the learned High Court Judge dated 07.07.2006 (pg. 371). No

proper consent recorded at folio 373. No proper adoption of evidence. Section

48 of the Judicature Act not considered correctly. The demeanor and

deportment of witness is in question, since the trial Judge who delivered the

judgment had no opportunity to consider the demeanor and deportment of

witness. The learned trial Judge's ought not to have adopted the evidence. The

adoption of proceedings alone would not be sufficient according to learned

President's Counsel. He added that the discretion under Section 48 of the said

Act must be applied reasonably. He also argued that the requirement as per

Section 203 of the Criminal Procedure Code to pass Judgment has been

flouted. It was argued that the word 'forthwith' would mean within a

reasonable time or as soon as practicable. 65 NLR 499. In this regard the case

reported in 1999(1) SLR 299 would be of importance. The provisions of Section

203 of the Code are directory and not mandatory. This is a procedural

I!

I

j 1 , 1 \

9

obligation that has been imposed upon the court and its non compliance

would not affect the individuals' rights unless such non compliance occasions a

failure of Justice.

In view of the above learned President's Counsel argue that his client

has not had a fair trial.

Learned President's Counsel inter alia also referred to the evidence

that transpired from the main witness at folios 148/149 to demonstrate that

the receipt of information was false. It is not recorded that information would

be provided the next day. Attention of court also drawn to the contents of

folios 203 & 204. It was also suggested that the defence case has not been

correctly evaluated. Learned High Court Judge has misdirected himself on

facts. Witness Tarzan's evidence not correctly analysed. He adds that the

learned High Court Judge rejected 'Tarzan's' evidence without a basis (pgs.

420,424 & 425).

In reply the learned Additional Solicitor General emphasized inter alia

that there had been no challenge to the prosecution case by the defence.

There was no attack by the defence as regards the evidence led by the

prosecution's main official witnesses, or any attempt to doubt their

testimonial trustworthiness. In other words the defence case has not been put

I I i t I 1 1 I I I I 1 ] t

10

or suggested to the prosecution witness. Perusal of the evidence of the

prosecution witnesses I find that the position in this regard submitted to court

by learned Additional Solicitor General is correct, to a very great extent.

Learned Additional Solicitor General suggested the failure of the defence to

contest the following items of evidence.

(a) Entry in pocket note book. Nothing unusual.

(b) Information of informant not challenged.

(c) Subsequently, the raid

(d) Defence case i.e not a word about 'Bakery Malli' and his role/records heroin in a tin

buried etc.

(e) False implication not suggested.

(f) Identity not challenged of production/parcels

(g) Chain of events and its custody form recovery up to handing over to Government

Analyst.

The learned Additional Solicitor General also referred to the

suggestions of the defence (pg. 166) being denied by the official witness. He

argued that the conduct of the police raid party is normal and consistent. As

such it is legitimate, in the circumstances of the case. Then as regards the

proceedings at 155/156 last question? Misjoiner/disjoinder of the of the

question? There is no error in the proceedings and invited court to the next

question. Q: <!®~ QCJ>es> <!G)~). It was emphasized by learned Additional

\,

f;

f1;,I

I

t

~

11

Solicitor General that the answer cannot be considered as Tarzan had heroin,

which is out of context, based on entirety of the evidence.

As regards the defence case it was argued, by learned Additional

Solicitor General that the dock statement does not contemplate of any assault

or injury to him. There are contradiction in the dock statement and that of the

evidence of Accused's wife (pg. 299). Witness is Tarzan, an untrustworthy

witness who is a drug addict for over 15 years, and consumes drugs daily

(twice a day).

This court having heard both the learned counsel who are I

experienced in the law and privileged to be President's Counsel, argued each

others' case vociferously. However before I express my views on the verdict of I I i I i I I

the trial Judge and evidence led, there is a very fundamental issue that has to

be given very serious thought. Based on my views, the parties could decide to

reject such views, and it is still open to canvass same before the Apex Court.

Was the Accused-Appellant afforded a fair trial?

I

~ I

There is no doubt that the trial Judge who delivered the Judgment; I never had the opportunity to hear the evidence led before the High Court. The

trial Judge who delivered the Judgment only had the opportunity to hear oral

submissions of counsel on either side at the close of the defence case. The

12

proceedings of 21.7.2006 and thereafter confirm this position. The

proceedings of 21.7.2006 also state that the defence is willing and had

consented to adopt the evidence and proceed with the case to the very end

before the trial Judge who delivered the Judgment. Perusal of the proceedings

I find that as and when a Judge took over the hearing of this case the Accused

party and the prosecution agreed and consented to proceed with the trial and

adopt the evidence already led.

On the other hand the Accused party highlighted before this court

the delay in the delivery of the Judgment (over one year) and the loss of

opportunity as regards demeanor and deportment for the trial Judge who

delivered the Judgment. Thereby argued that the Accused-Appellant did not

have a fair trial. The right to a fair trial is a fundamental right. It cannot be

denied. Article 13(3) of the constitution guarantees this right in no uncertain

terms. This is a worldwide, accepted concept (vide article 10 of the Universal

Declaration of Human Rights; Article 14(1) of the International Covenant on

Civil and Political Rights). Apart from the above it is a matter of interest and I

wish to quote the following passage.

I I I 1

1

J 1 I \

I I i

13

Mr. Justice James Cecil Walter Pereira Q.c., one of Sri Lanka's

greatest Jurists said: A Ceylon Court of Justice is a British Court of Justice. Re.

Vanny Aiyar (1915) 18 NLR 181. During Two Centuries, the Court of Sri Lanka

have closely adhered to the principles laid down by the English Court, to

achieve fairness in the Administration of Justice. But, as it has been shown,

some of those principles had been recognized and applied in Sri Lanka long

before the arrival of British in that country (A.R.B Amarasinghe. The Legal

Heritage of Sri Lanka Chapter IX (1999). Indeed some of the principles followed

by the English Courts have roots way beyond the depths of its indigenous legal

system; for instance, there is the principle that the law must be open, and

there is the principle that the other party must be heard (pg. 780 Judicial

Conduct Ethics and Responsibilities - Dr. A.R.B. Amarasighe).

The provisions contained in Section 48 of the Judicature Act, read thus:

"In the case of death, sickness, resignation, removal from office, absence from Sri

Lanka, or other disability of any Judge before whom any action, prosecution, proceeding

or matter, whether on any inquiry preliminary to committal for trail or otherwise, has

been instituted or is pending, such action, prosecution, proceeding or matter may be

continued before the successor of such Judge who shall have power to act on the

evidence already recorded by his predecessor, or partly recorded by his predecessor and

partly recorded by him or, if he thinks fit, to re-summon the witness and commence the

proceedings afresh:

\

f

14

Provided that in any such case, except on an inquiry preliminary to committal for

trial, either party may demand that the witnesses be re-summoned and re-heard, in

which case the trial shall commence afresh.

The power to continue the trial from the point it was stopped or to re-

summon witness and commence the proceedings afresh is vested with the trial

Judge. The Proviso to the above section enables the parties to demand that

the witnesses be re-summoned and re-heard. Nevertheless the discretion of

the Judge cannot be interfered with under any of the circumstances as

contemplated by the said section. I wish to add that the discretion recognized

by the said section is however not absolute. The yardstick of fairness and

reasonableness would be the deciding factor which always has to be kept in

mind, by any Judicial mind. This is the point at which the trial Judge who takes

over the case need to decide that by his decision as per Section 48 of the said

Act, would meet the ends of justice, and not a mere mechanical exercise. He

or she should decide to do justice to the case in hand and in this context an

adoption of proceedings alone may not suffice, notwithstanding this being a

individual and a sole decision of a Judge and discretion of the presiding trial

Judge. All Judges need to be learned in the law and at the same breath there

should be efficient case management and be conscious of court

\

f

t

~

I I

I ! ! I

1 1 ! I

I

• 15

surroundings/proceedings, no doubt are equally important in the

Administration of Justice. I refer to the earlier view on this problem reported in

Samaraweera Vs. Jayawardena 4 NLR 106.

In this connection it is submitted that Bonser c.J presiding over the Supreme Court of Sri

Lanka in the case of Samaraweera v Jayawardena 4 N.L.R 106 has held "In a case where

the decision depends altogether upon the credit to be given to the plaintiff and his

witnesses, it is not proper for a judge who has not heard the plaintiff and his witnesses

to decide on their veracity and trustworthiness, when he has the means in his power of

judging for himself by calling and examining them".

Let me also refer to a somewhat recent case where Judgment was

delivered by Justice Sal/am CA {PHC} APN 46/03.

Held: "the duty of the Judge to make up his mind with regard to three alternative courses

embodied in Section 48 cannot always be entrusted or surrendered to the parties to decide,

Even if the parties are willing to adopt the evidence (as is usually done) the discretion is

exclusively within the powers of the succeeding Judge".

In so far as the instant matter is concerned, as the case for the prosecution had been

closed, when the succeeding Judge took over the matter, taking into consideration the

seriousness of the charges leveled against the accused-respondents, the number of

witnesses who had already testified (among them were eyewitnesses and those who gave

circumstantial evidence) it would have been much beneficial to both sides (even though the

Judge of the High Court was empowered to act on the evidence partly recorded by the

predecessor and partly and partly recorded by her and then deliver the judgment) had the

Judge succeeded in office, exercised the discretion under (3) above, namely to have formed

the opinion that it is fit to re-summon the witnesses and commence the proceedings afresh,

despite the fact that the parties were prepared to adopt the evidence. Had it been done, it

Ilt

f

t

j

• 16

would have been rather unlikely that the case would have reached the end that in fact

reached. This should not be misconstrued as my having expressed anything to convey

directly or otherwise, that the evidence led at the trial warrants a conviction of the accused-

respondents. All what I have endeavored at best, is to justify my view that there has been a

miscarriage of Justice by reason of the learned High Court Judge not having heard the

witnesses for the prosecution and observe their demeanor and deportment whether in

favour of them or against, as she has done in the case of the accused-respondents, one of

whom has given evidence before her and others made dock statements. Here one could see

a clear discrimination that had occasioned by reason of the prosecution case having been

heard before another judge. I must emphasis that it always may not happen in every case.

But the application of Section 48 may vary depending on the facts and the circumstances of

each case. Since it is a discretion vested in court, it should have been exercised diligently for

it is said that a person in whom is vested a discretion must exercise his discretion upon

reasonable grounds. A discretion does not empower a man to do what he likes merely

because he is minded to do so he must in the exercise of his discretion do not what he likes

but what he ought. In other words, he must, by use of his reason, ascertain and follow the

course which reasons direct. He must act reasonably (Roberts v. Hopwood 1925 A.C 578 at

613)".

The proceedings at 07.07.2006 and 21.07.2006 indicates that the

only request the parties, both defence and prosecution made was to allow

them to again address court. The defence never made any attempt to apply to

court to re hear the case. In terms of the provisions in Section 48 of the above

Act the Accused party has a right to demand and request court, to rehear. This

attitude of Accused party no doubt had an impact on the Judge's mind and

\!

tIi

Ji

t

17

thereafter parties made oral submission. However it is a matter for the

succeeding trial Judge to give serious thought to the requirement of Section 48

and also consider whether Accused ought to be afforded to be given a fair trial

and thereby call upon the witnesses to be re-heard. The two orders delivered

to continue with the case} but gives no indication as to whether the trial Judge

really exercised his discretion. This court cannot substitute its views since

Section 48 is left to the discretion of the trial Judge} and the Appellate Court

will be slow to interfere unless it has occasioned a miscarriage of justice. The

way the defence handled the prosecution case} in the absence of intervening

at the cross examination stage and to put the defence case at the correct stage

would entitle the trial court to draw certain inferences. This court would not

unnecessarily interfere with questions of fact. Appeal court will and should not

disturb findings of primary facts. 1993 (1) SLR 119. But on the other hand even

so} trial Judge is bound to consider and analyse the defence case.

Therefore we find that the Accused-Appellant had not been denied

of a fair hearing} in the circumstances of the case in hand. My views on this

aspect of the case cannot be the rule but need to be decided on a case by case

basis.

t,!

tJ

t

\

I I j I

\ I

18

On the question of application of Section 203 of the Code, courts

have held that provisions contained in the said section are directory and not

mandatory. Delays tend to cause injustice to a p arty and a judgment delivered

with inordinate delay is worthless but in the case in hand from the point of

concluding the oral submission on 05.09.2006, the trial Judge delivered the

Judgment on 12.12.2006. There cannot be a serious complaint since within %

months judgment was pronounced, and in today's contest it is somewhat a

laudable for the trial Judge to do so, who would have to peruse the entirety of

the evidence having heard the oral submissions only. However it is important

to keep in mind the dicta in the case of Dabare Vs. Republic of Sri Lanka 2009

(1) SLR 92

Held~

The provisions of Section 203 are directory and not mandatory. This is a procedural

obligation that has been imposed upon the Court and its non compliance would not affect

the individuals rights unless such non compliance occasions a failure of justice.

Per Sisira de Abrew J.

"Courts below cannot use this judgment as an authority to refrain from delivering the

judgments within the time period in Section 203, one should not forget that after the

close of the defence case, the accused is generally remanded till the delivery of

judgment. Thus when the judgment reserved is put off without reasons the accused

would continue to be in the custody of remand without reasons. It is the duty of the trial

~!

J

19

judge to deliver his judgment within the time period stipulated in Section 203 - failure

to comply with Section 203 or postponing judgments without reasonable grounds would

lead to erosion of public confidence in the judicial system and would lead to laws delay",

The case of the prosecution had been proved beyond reasonable

doubt according to the trial Judge. But that alone would not bring the desired

result. Defence led evidence, and does the defence case create a reasonable

doubt in the prosecution case? If a reasonable doubt could be created the

Accused-Appellant need to be acquitted. However prior to all above, there was

a point raised as regard the dates of receipt of information. Defence argue that

the prosecution witness does not disclose the truth to court as the information

was received not on the 24th but on 23 rd, since the others in the raid party

namely Bandara and Kumarasiri were told to come early on 24th morning.

Though there was much argument on the date and time of receipt of

information the answers given by the witness has to be accepted as recorded.

These items of evidence cannot be a ground to consider, whether prosecution

witnesses are untrustworthy? This does not really demonstrate

untruthfulness, but may raise some suspicion which cannot assist court to give

a benefit to the defence?

f I

f

Jf

trII! fI ft ! I

t (1j I

III

I I I

~ 1 I ! I

~ I ,

20

It is an error by the trial Judge to state that the dock statement of

Accused should be corroborated by evidence of other witnesses of the

defence. Let me consider the dock statement of the Accused. The following

points are urged.

(1) Sleeping in the house at the relevant time.

(2) Arrest by the officers of the Narcotics Bureau in the house.

(3) Not arrested on the road. It is false, statement by the prosecution that

Accused was arrested on the road.

(4) Officers of the Narcotics, Bureau came with Tarzan' to the house.

(5) No drugs detected in house and Accused not in possession of drugs.

There could be instances where Accused only makes a dock

statement. Based solely on the dock statement if a reasonable doubt is created

the Accused has to be acquitted. There is no principle that the dock statement

need to be corroborated. It is a misdirection by the trial Judge to state that the

dock statement has not been corroborated. In fact Tarzan's evidence

corroborates the version of the Accused to the extent that the Accused was

arrested at the house and not on the road as submitted by the prosecution.

The other fact that Tarzan came with the officers of the Narcotics Bureau to

Accused's house is also an item of corroboration of Accused's evidence. This is

21

the trial Judge's failure and lapse of not being able to identify items of

evidence led at the trial.

I find a total misdirection of the trial Judge at folios 420/419 where

'Tarzan's' testimonial trustworthiness had been analysed and rejected. The

basis of rejection has been summarized by the trial Judge, as regards 'Tarzan'.

It is stated that witness 'Tarzan' is a drug peddler. He has consumed drugs for

over 15 years. He daily consumes drugs. (Twice a day). Tarzan has been

convicted by court of law for possession and trafficking etc. These are items of

evidence admitted in the evidence of 'Tarzan'. It is a misdirection of law to

conclude that he is an untruthful witness on account of above. There is no

denial by Tarzan' of above. Trial Judge states that a person in the caliber of

'Tarzan', who is a drug addict and such evidence is untrustworthy of credit

when he is called upon to give evidence on behalf of another drug trafficker, or

drug peddler (pg. 420). Trial Judge's view is that Tarzan has a distorted mind is

on one hand unsupported by medical evidence. Trial Judge has failed to

analyse Tarzan's evidence in an unbiased manner and without importing

personal knowledge of the witness and as such it cannot be a ground to reject

his testimony in court. A witness can be rich, poor, disabled, person convicted

of an offence, suffer mental disability during lucid periods (certified by Doctor)

t! I

IlI

ffI

\

ifiI

II

rIIf Ii

I I

22

person of young age etc. What is important is not the character/position but

the evidence that transpires in court is trustworthy or has credence or not.

Whatever the person is, can the court rely on the evidence led in court, and

not based on his position in life?

Another error of the trial Judge is as follows, 'Tarzan' need not in

evidence explain as to why the officers of the Narcotics Bureau did not arrest

'Bakery Malli' (C!~ ®@@) as Tarzan's evidence was that the drugs belongs to

'Bakery Malli'. Nor should 'Tarzan' explain as to why the officers arrested the

Accused as his position was that he was not in possession of drugs. I observe

that the trial Judge has misdirected himself in this regard (pg. 424). Further the

State has not been able to contradict the testimony of Tarzan at any point. I

also cannot find a suggestion made to witness Tarzan to demolish his

creditworthiness, or suggest he is a liar?

As regards witness Tarzan's failure to explain I prefer to include trial

Judge's views (422) ..... C!®® ~ eo~ooz; (Tarzan) Qf:l)~ 00 qz:tDC!t» C!®®

®~~ E)@ ~z; C!Q)tma ®@~m 00 ~ OOtm Qf:l)~ fm@t» ~en

C!~ ®@@E) q~E)C) CS)z;6)®C) f:l)~ C!6)f:l)@ Q)e>CO. ~C!c:reS C!®® ®~~

i

tl:rt

t

i

23

Such an explanation is not required in law by the witness. It is a matter for the

police raid team, to provide evidence.

It is very unfortunate that this court has to observe that the trial

Judge has not considered and given his mind to the defence case properly. If

there were contradictions, it is the duty of the trial Judge to deal with them in

the same manner he dealt with the prosecution case and decide as to whether

such infirmities go to the root of the defence case. The prime duty of the trial

Judge is to weigh the evidence correctly and decide whether the defence case

is capable of creating a reasonable doubt in the prosecution case. Instead he

has allowed himself to be influenced by importing his personal knowledge.

However good or bad the witness or whether he has a bad track record should

be forgotten and not the deciding factor. Trial Judge should only concentrate

on the evidence before court.

Let us give our mind to the evidence of the wife of the Accused

Kumudini Perera. She woke up at about 6.00 a.m. and kept water to boil to

prepare tea and went to the toilet. She, her husband and their small children

slept on a mat. Husband was also put up by her and he was not sleeping

thereafter, but just lying on the mat. When the wife was preparing tea

somebody knocked on the door saying /I C)~c!~ c)~c!~" . Accused's

24

husband told her to see and she opened the door and saw 'Tarzan' handcuffed

with three others. She calls the others, ®es>rne>Ol;. She works at 'Little Lion'

(Maliban), and usually leaves home by 6.45/or 10 to 15 minutes before 7.00

a.m. It is her husband the Accused who takes her to the place of work by his

three wheeler. It is in evidence-in-chief that the officer who came to the house

assaulted the husband ~K) COOS>l;~) e>>o~@ @~oo ~d. The officer

searched the house but could not find anything. In cross-examination it was

put to this witness that the Accused was arrested on the road and not in the

house but the witness rejected that position. She was also asked that the

Accused at the time of arrest had a bag in his possession but that position was

rejected. She was also questioned as to whether she complained about her

husband being taken into custody. Her answer was in the negative.

The learned trial Judge's views on the above witness Kumudini

Perera seems to suggest that certain trivial aspects which are also factually

incorrect and not supported by precise evidence had been considered, to

arrive at a conclusion on the testimonial trustworthiness of the witness. I note;

(a) Trial Judge takes the view that the Accused was sleeping by 6.30 a.m. ,

when the officers of the Narcotic Bureau arrived, and witness was to

leave for work by 6.45 a.m. being unacceptable. This court observes that

which happens in any household in the morning of the day is being

Ii1

It

~If

IJI1

I ! I

25

described by witness. It is incorrect for the Judge to state that Accused

had been sleeping at 6.30 a.m. The Accused was lying on the mat but

not asleep. The time at which the witness leaves the house for work is

immaterial and not so relevant at all. There is absolutely nothing very

significant to disbelieve the witness on trivial matters. This is a perverse

finding and a total misdirection.

(b) Then on the question as to who tapped on the door. Witness Kumudini

has stated that a person tapped on the door saying /I "'~~

",~". 'Tarzan' in evidence said he tapped on the door and said he is

I®@ C)~' . The main point to be considered is that there was a tap on

the door. Whether it was a friend or Tarzan' cannot throw much light

on the issue since uncontradicted evidence suggested that when the

door was opened witness saw Tarzan' handcuffed with the officefsof

the Narcotics Bureau. Tapping on the door and opening the door and

'Tarzan' appearing near the door with otficers remains un-contradicted.

This is another highly trivial aspect. It cannot be considered to be a

contradiction as in cross-examination 'Tarzan' said when somebody

inquired who is it he said I®@ C»~'. It appears that the trial Judge had

been hunting for discrepancies without accepting the evidence

in the context it was uttered. What is essential in a trial is to ascertain

whether the witness is speaking the truth.

26

Open mind of the Judge should be maintained to consider the evidence

that transpired in court. In evaluating evidence of a witness a court or tribunal

is not entitled to reject testimony and arrive at an adverse finding in regard to

testimonial trustworthiness and credibility on the mere proof of contradiction

or the existence of a discrepancy. Court must weigh and evaluate the

discrepancy and ascertain whether the discrepancy does go to the root of the

matter. If not such a discrepancy cannot be given too much importance.

Witnesses should not be disbelieved merely on trivial discrepancies. Entirety

and totality of the matter should be carefully considered, vide Best Footwear

(Pvt.) Ltd. and two others Vs. Aboosally former Minister of Labour 1997(2) SLR

138. The above equally apply to the prosecution as well as the defence case.

In all the facts and circumstances of the case in hand, this court

observe that in this type of cases filed in terms of the provisions of Poisons,

Opium and Dangerous Drugs Ordinance and the like cases pertaining to

Dangerous Drugs, prosecution leads very systematic type of Evidence and

police witnesses maintain records and produce them in court if the need

arises. It may not be an easy task for the defence to get a breakthrough in the

prosecution case. As observed above the Accused-Appellants case had also not

been put properly to the prosecution witnesses to an extent, at the trial.

27

Nevertheless defence led evidence and the Accused-Appellant made a dock

statement which is evidence in the case. Whether it be the evidence of the

prosecution or defence, it has to be evaluated correctly and analysed.

We have highlighted in this Judgment certain lapses and

misdirections of the learned trial Judge. It is our view that rejection of the

defence case is highly unreasonable and unacceptable in view of the evidence

led on behalf of the Accused-Appellant. The dock statement and the evidence

of the defence witnesses remain uncontradicted in very many important

aspects. The place of 'arrest' is an important item of evidence. Accused-

appellant, and the two supporting witnesses maintained that the Accused-

Appellant was accosted and arrested in the house of the Accused. 'Tarzan'

took the police to the house. It is uncontradicted evidence provided by the

Accused party and Accused not being in posse~.sion of Dangerous Drugs in his

house. Prosecution story is different on this aspect. As such the defence case

on this aspect creates a reasonable doubt.

Evidence of the prosecution was that nothing was detected and

recovered from the house of the Accused. Merely because witness 'Tarzan'

had a bad track record of being a drug peddler and a drug addict would not be

a ground to reject his testimony in court since witness 'Tarzan' admitted to

I

t

28

that fact. To add to this, evidence of the Accused's wife provide details of what

happens in a household in the early hours of the day in question. It is quite

natural and normal for the wife to conduct and act in that way from the time

she woke up at about 6.00 a.m., until her husband was arrested by the police.

This is the usual behavior of a wife. All three inclusive of the Accused provided

details of arrest and place of arrest which was never contradicted, by the

prosecution, or made to look improbable. \.tVhat the law requires is only to

prove a reasonable doubt, and that had been accomplished. Some minor

details have been projected by the trial Judge and on that alone to reject the

defence version is unjustified in the context of the case. We are satisfied that a

reasonable doubt is created and the trial Judge's views to reject the defence

case is not plausible and it is improper to reject the defence case.

I would not hesitate to extend the dicta to the defence case guided by

the Judgment of the Indian Supreme Court ir: Bhoginbhai Hirjibhai Vs State of

Gujarat (1983) A.LR. S.c. 753. At page 755 Indian Supreme Court held thus: "By

and large a witness cannot be expected to possess a photographic memory

and to recall the details of an incident. It is not as if a video tape is replayed on

the menta! screen. Ordinarily a witness cannot be expected to recall accurately

the sequence of events which take place in rapid succession or in a short time

I

t! IIIII ! ,

J,I

~ ,. ,. I!tlt

~

~. IIl l l <~ If JI f IfiI

29

span. A witness is liable to get confused, or mixed-up when interrogated later

on. The powers of observation differ from person to person. What one may

notice, another may not. An object or movement might emboss its image on

one person's mind, whereas it might go unnoticed on the part of another".

Therefore we are not inclined to hold with the views of the learned

High Court Judge. As such we set aside the conviction and sentence and acquit

the Accused-Appellant.

Appeal allowed.

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne J.

I agree. ~.~~

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

1 !I

t I!

! IIIIIi III

~ , i ! i f t i t

f ! t

J r i

f ! I!,

~