==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA. 04/2012

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

Herath Mudiyanselage Piyasena alias

Herath Mudiyanselage Piyasena Kaluhendiwala

Wessagiriya, Kaluhendiwala,

Thalawatte Gedera.

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. Divisional Secretary

Divisional Secretariat,

Polgahawela.

2. Commissioner General of Lands,

Land Commissioner General Department

No.7, Hector Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,

Colombo 7

3. The Secretary

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

Ministry of Lands & Land Development

Battaramulla.

RESPONDENTS

Chula Bandara with Sidath Bandara for the Petitioner

Chaya Sri Nammuni S.C for Respondents

1

2

ARGUED ON: 07.11.2013

DECIDED ON: 29.04.2014

GOONERATNE J.

The Petitioner in this application seeks a Writ of Mandamus directing

the Respondents to hand over the land Grant issued in the name of the

Petitioner pertaining to a land described in the body of the petition and in sub

para (b) of the prayer to the petition. To state very briefly the facts of this case,

the land in dispute which belonged to the Petitioner's family was acquired on

or about 1977 (acquisition notices are produced Pi to P3). At the time of

acquisition and as referred to in Section 17 award of the Land Acquisitions Act,

there were 4 co-owners (P4) all being family members of the Petitioner's

family. It is pleaded that the land was acquired for the purpose of constructing

a play ground for the school described in para 7 of the petition. However

Petitioner pleads that for over 15 years the State failed to utilize the land for

the intended public purpose. As such the Petitioner by letter P5 of 24.8.2007

requested the Minister concerned to re-transfer or divest the land in dispute.

f !

3

By letter P6 of 15.6.2008 a letter renouncing each persons' rights are

also produced along with the petition. However P6 refer only to their names

and submission of letters. Petitioner also produced letter P7 wherein the

Ministry of Lands and Land Development inquire from the Education Minister

as to whether the land could be divested. It is the position of the Petitioner

that the Education Ministry agreed to divest the land on the condition that the

value of the land be paid back to the State. Petitioner claims he paid the cost

of retransferring the land but the 1st Respondent by P8 of 18.1.2010 requested

Petitioner to attend an inquiry. Letter P9 is supportive of the Petitioner (as

pleaded in para 13) to finalize the issuance of a land Grant in the name of the

Petitioner, P10 (date not clear as it reads 2001.1.6) is another letter supportive

of Petitioner's position. The Petitioner also gives some details of the purported

land granted supposed to be issued in favour of the Petitioner (land Grant

issued in the name of the Petitioner bearing No. 4.10.14526).

Petitioner also plead that the authorities concerned called the

Petitioner for an inquiry (vide Pl1 & P14). Petitioner states that he was unable

to attend the inquiry for the reasons pleaded in para 18 & 22 of the petition.

Petitioner also state that since the authorities refrained from handing over the

land Grant, letter P15, was dispatched through a lawyer and Petitioner

4

received P16 which state that inquiries are being concluded and on completion

of inquiries Petitioner would be notified. However there had been no positive

response to the Petitioner demand for a land Grant and the Petitioner blames

the Respondents for not taking the required steps, and moves for the writ

prayed for in his petition.

The Respondents in their objections do not deny that the land in

dispute was not put into the use for what it was acquired. The Ministry of

Education did not construct the play ground for the school for long years even

though it was acquired for that purpose. The position of the official

Respondents are clearly reflected in documents Rl, R2 & R3. On the requests

made by the Petitioner Rl was dispatched to 1st Respondent to ascertain the

present position in view of the position but discussed above. R2 is a letter

verifying the position whether the land could be divested since same was

acquired and compensation was paid to the owners ( Section 17 award) R3 is

an important letter recommending to release the land to the Petitioner after

recovering the market value of the land. R4 is a request by the Petitioner to

release the land after the paying the compensation and interest on it.

5

However this court need to take notice of the following paras of the

objections which indicate the difficulties encountered by the Respondents in

releasing the land to the Petitioner.

1. The Respondents state that upon the 1st Respondent asking the Petitioner

to pay a sum of Rs. 26,009.28 in order to have the land released to him, the

Petitioner by his letter dated 18.12.2009, informed that he is unable to pay

the said amount and could only pay a sum of Rs. 16,000.

2. The Respondents state that the eldest son of H.M. Punchi Banda, namely

H.M.W.S.B. Kaluhendiwala, has written to the 1st Respondent by letter

dated 25.12.2009, stating inter alia that he revokes his consent for the land

being divested only to the Petitioner.

3. Answering paragraph 12 of the petition, the Respondents state that the 1st

Respondent by his letter dated 29.12.2009 informed the 2

nd Respondent

regarding the objections of divesting the land in the Petitioner. On the

direction of the 2nd Respondent by his letter dated 6.10.2010, an inquiry

was called for on 24.2.2010.

It is evident that on perusing the material placed by either

party a land Grant was prepared or was being prepared in the name of the

Petitioner. It was unfortunate that as explained by the Respondents there

were objections for the land Grant to be issued to the Petitioner, and

Petitioner had been summoned for inquiries. The tone of the objections does

1

J

j

1 I I ! I j

i ! I I

I

I

i !

6

not indicate that the Respondents were willfully attempting to prevent the

Grant being issued to the Petitioner. The letter at R11 fully explains the

position of the state. It is apparent that others had objected to the Petitioner

being made the sole grantee of the land Grant. As such the Respondents seem

to have been placed in a difficulty and the contents of paras 4 & 5 of letter R11

cannot be taken lightly by this court. Above all letter R12 gives a clear

indication as to how the State wished to proceed in issuing the land Grant in

question. The last para of R12 and the 2

nd para of same does not favour the

Petitioner as the state intends to act in terms of Section 3 of the State Lands

Ordinance and a decision to issue the land Grant to 4 allottees (heirs).

The learned counsel for Petitioner has referred to certain legal

provisions in his written submissions and he did so even in his oral submissions

to this court. I have noted all those submissions. In fact I do appreciate the

legal attitude and thinking of the learned counsel for the Petitioner.

Learned counsel for Petitioner had cited the case of Kalu Banda Vs.

Upali SLR 391 Vol. 13 of 1999. This case relates to cancellation of lease issued

by the President.

J

j

1 I

J

J I I

7

In that case Hector Yapa J. stated:

I am unable to subscribe to the view, that a lease permit granted by the President of the

Republic of Sri Lanka, for a period of 30 years could be cancelled for whatever reason,

without giving an opportunity to the holder of such permit to show cause .......... Therefore,

where provision is made by law in regard to the procedure to be followed when cancelling a

lease permit granted to a person there is no reason why such procedure should be ignored

or overlooked. Such conduct would be illegal and arbitrary and offend the fair

administrative procedure expected from public authorities.

On the other hand, even if there was no proviSion made for a party to be heard before his

lease permit is cancelled; prinCiples of natural justice will supply the omission of the

legislature. The reason being that the court will not readily accept the position that the

Parliament intended an administrative authority to exercise a discretion vested in it by

statute, in such a manner so as to offend the principles of natural justice ......... .

The above case more or less apply to land issued under a permit.

Nevertheless the Dicta in the said case is of immense importance. However the

situation as at the date of dispute of R12 is very much different from what is

sought by the Petitioner as per the prayer to the petition. This court will not

comment on the matters referred to in letter R12. If not for letter R12

Petitioner may have been entitled to relief. Petitioner no doubt had an

1f i i I

,

J I t I I

8

expectation to get the Grant in his favour. Unfortunately the authorities

concerned seems to have entertained objections of other co-owners. As such

this court will have to be mindful of the consequences in view of R12, since the

land remains State land for all purposes, until a valid disposition.

A mandamus is only granted to compel performance of a duty of a judicial character where

there has been a refusal to perform it in any way and not where it has been done in one

way rather than another even though the method pursued may have been erroneous. Still

less will the Court take upon itself to upset what amounts to a judicial decision based upon

evidence and to direct a public officer to come to an opposite decision upon evidence which

was not before him. 30 NLR at 84. A mandamus will not be granted to correct an erroneous

decision as to fact 2 c.L.W 14: 10 Times 65; 12 Law Rec. 176. The grant of a mandamus is a

matter for the discretion of the Court. It is not a Writ of right and is not issued as a matter

of course. 1 c.L.W. 306. It is a rule almost inflexible that a mandamus will not be allowed

where there is an adequate alternative remedy. 17 N.L.R at 318; 2 c.L.W. 330; 35 N.L.R 225.

The Court before issuing a writ of mandamus is entitled to take into consideration the

consequences which the issue of the writ will entail. 34 N.L.R. 33. A mandamus will not

issue where it would be futile and could not be obeyed. 33 N.L.R. 257; 1 c.L.W. 109, nor

where its obedience by the officer to whom it is addressed will involve the violation by him

of some other provision of law. 9 Times 70. A party applying for a mandamus must make

out a legal right and a legal obligation 1 N.L.R at 35.

tJ

f

~ !

~ Iftr

f

!I

1

..

I

9

In the above circumstances I am unable to exercise and extend the

writ jurisdiction in favour of the Petitioner. As such application is dismissed

without costs.

Application dismissed.

6J~~ JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

, i II ( IIi I I i Ii

jI I

r Ii

~ t I