==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC sOCIAlslT REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

C.A.(PHC) No. 01/2008 Opatha Kankanamage Sumanasiri

P.H.C Balapitiya 616/2004 Uragasmanhandiya

M.C.Elpitiya No. 14995

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:·

DECIDED ON:

Sunil Rajapakse J

2nd Respondent-Appellant

Vs

Thommaya Hakuru Nandawathie

Uramangashandiya

1st Respondent-Respondent

A. W .A.SALAM J.,

SUNil RAJAPAKSE j.,

PamodaJayasekera for the Appellant

Rohana Sampath for the Respondent

08.08.2013

05.05.2014

This appeal has been filed by the Appellant Respondent challenging the

Order dated 14.01.2008 of the learned High Court Judge of Balapitiya. The I

rI

I l I

2

learned High Court Judge, affirmed the Order made by the learned Magistrateon

23,07.2004 and dismissed the Revision Application filed by the 2nd Respondent-

Petitioner- Appellant.

The Order of the learned Magistrate had been made in respect of a dispute

affecting land where the breach of peace was threatened or likely, in terms of

Chapter VII of the Primary Courts Act No. 44 of 1979.

In the Magistrate's Court the information was filed by the OIC of

Uragasmanhandiya Police under Section 66(a) of the Primary Courts Procedure

Act No. 44 of 1979 regarding a breach of peace arisen owing to a land dispute.

When this case was taken up for argument both parties admitted that the

land in dispute is a State land. Therefore the ownership of the said property is

admittedly with the Government.

In this case the Appellant's main contention is that the land in dispute is a

State land and Primary Courts Judge did not have jurisdiction to hear and

determine this case. First of all I shall deal with this argument. The Appellant and

the Respondent assert in their affidavits that the corpus is a State land which both

parties have received from the Divisional Secretary.

Jf

In this regard -' cite the following authorities -Kanagalingam vs

Jegatheeswaran and another - 2009 1 SLR page 159, it was held "lf a case of rent

-.".., -and ejectment is filed in the Primary Court, the Primary Court has no power to go

into the matter, but if the dispute is referred to by way of Section 66 application

where the jurisdiction is circumscribed and limited to deciding only the issue of

possession in order to prevent a breach of the peace, then such action is within the

plenary jurisdiction of the Primary Court".

In Section 145 Baishnad Pariada vs Subal (1978 CR.U 1312 - Bhai at page

1515) it was held "Where the stand of a parties just to flout the law, it is the duty

of the Magistrate to give protection to other party and not to encourage

lawlessness".

After considering the above judgments I am' of the view that the learned

Magistrate's impugned order is within the scope of Primary Courts Procedure Act.

The learned Magistrate's view is that the Divisional Secretary has already at a

decision to the effect of the dispute and the court has no jurisdiction either to

alter or stay it. Therefore the learned Magistrate has correctly ordered to execute

the Divisional Secretary's order with the necessary police guard. The order of the

t!f I I I,I i

I 1 ! i

\ I I

has an alternative remedy can invoke revisionary jurisdiction of a superior court

only upon establishment of exceptional circumstances.

In this regard I would like to consider a judgment of Justice Udal.agama in

Devi Property Development (Pte) Limited and another vs Lanka Medical (Pvt)

Ltd., - C.A 518/01 decided on 20.06.2001. His Lordship in th4e said judgment

observed thus "Revision is an extraordinary jurisdiction vested in court to be

exercised under exceptional circumstances if the other remedies are available.

Revision is not available until and unless other remedies available to the

Petitioner are exhausted." The Appellant who sought the revisionary jurisdiction

of the High Court has an alternative remedy in this cas.e. If the Appellant had

dissatisfied the decision he could have made an appeal to the Land Commissioner

or would have filed an application for a writ of certiorari challenging the Divisional

Secretary's decision. I have gone through the proceedings before High Court and

note that the Respondent has not established any exceptional circumstances in

the High Court. Therefore, the High Court Judge has correctly dismissed the

Revision Application for the above reasons. Therefore I am of the view, that the

learned High Court Judge of Balapitiya had come to the correct conclusion by his

Order and refused to set aside the said Order in Revision.

If f

\

I

t It I I f [

I I

I ..

I

... '

6

. H~ For the aforesaid reasons, I affirm the judgment of the learned High Cout~'

!,« .!.i Judge of Balapitiya dated 14.01.2008 and the order of the learned Magistrate ~f'

Elpitiya dated 24.07.2004.

The Appeal is dismissed without costs.

;:f---z-p~

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEA

Salam J.,

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

III f t }I

I

t \ i