==== BLOCKS ==== 

I.~~·- ---~-

! • \ 1 I

j

I 1 i 1 I ]

J I I I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA Case No. 263/2012

In the matter of an Application made

under section 331 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure Act No. 15 of 1979.

G.M. Chaminda Bal'lcara

APPELLANT

HC. (Batticaloa) Case No. 2333/05 Vs

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

1

The Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12

RESPONDENT

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

: L.U. Jayasuriya J.

: Indika Malawarachchi for the

Accused - Appellant

Ayesha Jinasena S.D.S.G. with

S. Soosaithas S.C. for the

Attorney - General

: 13th December, 2017

: 12th January, 2018

I I I I 1 1 1 : I !

1 1 i l I t l I

l' i t

i-t j I

.. '

L. Jayasuriya J.

The accused appellant was indicted in the High Court of 8atticaloa

under section 296 of the Penal Code for the murder of two persons

named . Suneth Prasanna Subasinghe and Rohana Ekanayake

respectively. After trial the appellant was convicted and sentenced to

death. This appeal is from the said sentence and the conviction.

When the case was taken up for argument the learned counsel for

the appellant raised a preliminary objection to the effect that there was

non-compliance of section 48 ofthe Judicature Act on the formal adoption

of proceedings.

The learned counsel for the appellant relied on the finding of the

S.C. Special L.A. 03/2015. In that case the Supreme Court held that lithe

court is of the view that the court of appeal had set aside the order made

by the learned High Court judge. based on the irregulario/ with regard to

adoption of proceedings. The court is also of the view, under the

circumstances the proper order would have been to have the matter sent

back for retrial as the Court of Appeal has not decided, the guilt or

otherwise, of the Accused - Appellant - Respondent':

On a perusal of the above judgment it appears that the High Court

case bearing No. 1645/2006 was sent back for retrial with the consent of

the parties and therefore one can say that the Supreme Court judgment

is a consent judgment. Therefore with great respect we are of the view

that we are not bound to follow the above mentioned judgment. In the

2

1 t

f ,

!

---~---~-------------------

instant case it appears from the proceedings that the succeeding Judge

has not formally adopted the proceedings.

Section 43 of the Judicature Act provides that any action,

prosecution, proceeding, matter on any inquiry preliminary to the

committal for trial or otherwise has been instituted or is pending can be

continued before a successor of the Judge, in the case of death,

sickness, resignation, removal from office, absence from the Sri Lanka or

other disability of the Judge who heard the case or inquiry.

The powers of the succeeding Judge under section 48 are to Act

on the evidence already recorded by his predecessor or to Act on the

evidence partly recorded by the predecessor and partly recorded by him

or if he thinks fit, to re summon the witnesses and commence the

proceedings afresh. It is evident from the above section that it has not

imposed any condition either expressly or impliedly that the successor

should adopt the already lead evidence. The adoption is automatic.

Section 89 of the Ordinance No. 1 of 1889 provides thus,

"In case of the death, sickness, resignation, removal from

office, absence from the Island, or other disability of any Judge

before whom any case, suit, action, prosecution, or matter,

whether on an inquiry preliminary to committal for trial or

otherwise, has been instituted or is pending, such case, suit,

action, prosecution, or matter may be continued before the

successor of such Judge, who shall have power to act on the

evidence already recorded by such first-named Judge of partly

recorded by such first-named Judge and partly recorded by

3

I ' ..

1 '

~

himselt or, if he think fit, to re-summon the witnesses and

commence afresh. Provided that in any such case, except on

an inquiry preliminary to committal for trial, either party may

demand that the witnesses shall be re-summoned and re-

heard, in which case the trial shall be commenced afresh".

In the above section the legislature directs the succeeding Judge

to adopt the proceedings and continue with the case. There is no

necessity for the recording of formal adoption of pro.ce'edings when a

successor resumes.

It shows that the formal adoption has been only a practice. Section

48 has been analysed at length in the following cases.

1. Vilm'a Dissanayake vs Lesly Dharmarathna 2008 2 SLR 184. It

was held in the case that,

i. It is necessary for a succeeding Judge to continue proceedings since there are change of Judges holding office in a particular Court due to transfers, promotions and the' like. It is in these circumstances that Section 48 was amended giving discretion to a Judge to continue with the proceedings.

ii. The exercise of such discretion should not be disturbed unless there are serious issues with regard to the demeanor of any witnesses recorded by the Judge who previously heard the case.

4

I I , I

j 1 1 ! I I

I I I ! 1 i I I t t 1 I ---. I .,

~ j I

1

2. In Herath Mudiyanselage Ariyarathna vs The Republic CA

307/2006 decided on 17.07.2013 it was held "that the succeeding

Judge should continue with the case without giving reasons".

3. In Millaniya Ranmunige Daniel vs AG CA 164/2007 decided on

27.07.2010 it was held that;

"under section 48 of the Judicature Act the succeeding Judge

has the power to act on the evidence already recorded and thus

the rule laid down in section 48 is in favour of an adoption of

the proceedings by the succeeding Judge. Even in the absence

of a positive record of the fact of the adoption of the evidencel

the fact that the succeeding Judge had continued with the

proceedings without any objection from either party would

tantamount to an adoption of proceedings within the meaning

of Section 48 of the Judicature Actll.

4. In Kaluwahumpurage Somapala vs the -Commission to

Investigate int~ Bribary or Corruption CA(PHC) APN 37/2009

it was held that "when the successor uses his discretion on whether

witnesses should be re-summoned as provided by section 48 of

Judicature Act. The succeeding Judge should take such a decision

judicially and reasonably."

The above mentioned judgments further strengthens the position that

a succeeding Judge should not formally record the adoption of

proceedings. If one party has any objections, that party sliouTcrfaKeup···

5

I

:" .

the objection when the case is resumed by the succeeding Judge. If there

is no objection the adoption of proceeding takes place automaticaHy.

F or the forgoing reasons we decide to reject the preliminary

objection taken up by the appellant.

. JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Deepali Wijesundera J.

I Agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

6