==== BLOCKS ==== 

..

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

D.V.A.L.Sulaiha Umma

Kahawatte

Ambatenna

Plaintiff-Appellant C.A.NO.1215/98 (F) D.C.KANDY CASE NO.11208/P

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON

DECIDED ON

Vs

1. Hawwa Umma alias Maimoon Natchiya

Deceased 1st Defendant-Respondent

1A.K. O.Tajideen Hajiar Udalatawinna Madige

Udatalawinna Katugoastota

Substituted lA Defendant-Respondent

And Others

Defendant-Respondents

K. T.CHITRASIRI, J.

H.Withnachchi for the Plaintiff-Appellant

Ranjan Suwandaratne with A.M.Jiffry for the Substituted

1 st, 2nd, 3rd, 5th and 6th Defendants-Respondents

02.05.2014

27.05.2014 by the Substituted 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 5th and 6 Defendan t -Responden ts

17.06.2014 by the Plaintiff-Appellant

14TH JULY 2014

1

CHITRASIRI, J.

Being aggrieved by the judgment dated 08.09.1988 of the learned

Additional District Judge of Kandy; plaintiff-appellant preferred this appeal

seeking to set aside the aforesaid judgment and to have her due shares in the

land sought to be partitioned. Learned Additional District has declined to allocate

shares to the parties due to the failure on the part of the plaintiff-appellant to

establish devolution of title of the respective parties. He also has decided that the

defendant-respondents too have failed to establish the prescriptive claim that

they have advanced. Accordingly, he has dismissed the action filed to have a

partition decree to the land depicted in the preliminary plan bearing No.439

dated 26.08.1984 drawn by T.B.Attanayake L.S.

At all material times, possession of the land sought to be partitioned had

been with some of the defendant-respondents and the appellant had never been

in possession. Contention of the learned Counsel for the appellant is that the trial

judge has failed to consider the title of the respective parties to the action though

it is his prime duty in terms of Section 25 of the partition law.

It is trite law that Section 25 of the Partition Law imposes a duty on the

trial Judge to investigate title of the respective parties in a partition action even if

some are not even before Court to present their cases. This proposition in law has

clearly been accepted by long line of authorities and the following are a few of

those.

2

• ./ Galagoda V Mohideen [40 N L R 92];

./ Gunatilleka V Murieal Silva [79 (Vol. 1) N L R 481];

./ Kularatne V Ariyasena [2001 B L R 06];

./ Richard and Another V Seibel Nona [2001 (2) S L R 01];

./ Abeysinghe V Kumarasinghe [2008 B L R 300]

Accordingly, I will now look at the evidence recorded in this case to

ascertain whether the learned Additional District Judge has discharged the

aforesaid duty of investigating title of the respective parties as required by law.

The Plaintiff in her evidence has produced, amongst other deeds, the deeds

bearing Nos.8083 and 2977 marked as P8 and P12 respectively, to prove her

entitlement to the land sought to be partitioned. Then, the plaintiff has stated

that the title referred to in the deed P8 had emanated from the deed marked P5.

Hence, it is on the deed marked P5 that the plaintiff has relied to claim rights in

the land put in suit.

According to her evidence one Sheriffdeen is the person who became

entitled to the land by the aforesaid deed marked P5 (vide proceedings at page 75

in the appeal brief). However, looking at the deed marked P5, no such person by

the name of Sheriffdeen has become entitled to the land. The transferees in that

deed (P5) are Mohideen Pathumma and Ayesha Umma and not Sheriffdeen.

Accordingly, it is clear that the plaintiff is not in a position to make a claim

depending on the rights of Sheriffdeen. Hence, it is correct to have decided that

3

the plaintiff cannot claim title to the land sought to be partitioned depending on

the deeds marked P5, P6, P7 and P8.

0-.,

Remaining deed by which the plaintiff claims title to this land is the deed

2977 marked P12. The rights in the deed P12 derives from the deed marked Pl1.

Similarly, the rights in Pll have derived from the deed marked PI0. The

transferee in the deed PI0 is the daughter of Mohideen Beebi. Her name is

Fareeda. Fareeda has transferred her rights by the deed Pll to Ally Uduman

Samsudeen. He is the vendor in P12. However he (Samsudeen) has obtained title

to the land, not by the deed marked PI0, but by the deed bearing No.340 dated

13.12.1943. It is so stated in the deed Pll itself. The aforesaid deed 340 has not

been produced in evidence. Therefore, the plaintiff cannot claim title by the deed

marked P12 without producing the deed 340 in evidence.

Therefore, it is seen that the plaintiff has failed to establish that he has

rights in the land sought to be partitioned. These matters have been clearly

analyzed by the learned Additional District Judge in his judgment (vide

proceedings at pages 168 and 1 70 in the appeal brief). In the circumstances, I do

not see any error on the part of the learned trial Judge when he concluded that

the plaintiff has no title to the land sought to be partitioned.

Learned Additional District Judge also has considered the prescriptive

claims of the 3rd and the 5th defendant-respondents. Having considered so, he

has come to the conclusion that no sufficient evidence is forthcoming to establish

the prescriptive claims of the 3rd and the 5th defendant-respondents. They have

4

,

not appealed against the said decision. Hence, it is not necessary to look at the

evidence as to the prescriptive claim of the defendants in this instance. Also, it

.. '" .

must be noted that the defendants have nq:t sought to have a partition decree

even though number of deeds have been produced in evidence on their behalf. In

the answer of the 1st . 2nd, 3rd, 5th and 6 th defendant-respondents, they have only

sought for a decree in their favour on the basis of the possession they had in the

land. Learned District Judge has considered the evidence on the question of

possession and has declined to grant relief sought by the defendants. They have

not invited this Court to review the decision as to their prescriptive claim that

they have made in respect of the land sought to be partitioned.

In the circumstances, it is clear that the learned Additional District Judge

has made every effort to have a partition decree in this instance having

discharged his duty referred to in Section 25 of the Partition Law. Therefore, this

Court cannot find fault with the learned trial judge for not allocating shares

considering the deeds marked in evidence particularly the deeds of the appellant.

For the aforesaid reasons, I am not inclined to interfere with the findings of

the learned Additional District Judge. Accordingly, this appeal is dismissed.

Parties are to bear their own costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

5