==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I

I

•

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 293/2013 (Writ)

S.K. Thotagamuwage

'Saman Sevana'

Bogoda - Telijawala,

Matara.

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. Sri Lanka Tourism Development

Authority

2. Dr. 0.5. Jayaweera

Director General

Sri Lanka Tourism Development

Authority.

both of No. 80,

Galle Road, Colombo 3

3. Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

RESPONDENTS

1

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERATNE J.

Ani! Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

Hejaaz Hizbullah with Nadun Wijesiriwardena instructed by

Ravindra Jayalath for the Petitioner

Faiz Mustapha P.C, with Faiza Markarfor 1st & 2nd Respondents

03.03.2014

05.05.2014

2

The Petitioner pleads in his petition that he is an Assistant Director at

the Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority. In this writ Application the

Petitioner has sought a Writ of Certiorari to quash the decision and or the

determination in letter marked P8. Perusal of P8 it is apparent that the

Petitioner had been interdicted for the reasons stated therein. During the

period of interdiction the Petitioner would not be entitled to a salary and he is

requested not to enter the several premises referred to therein in P8 without

prior approval. P8 had been issued based on a preliminary investigations, and

it specifically deals with misappropriation of funds.

3

The learned counsel for the Petitioner supported this matter for

interim relief as prayed for in sub para 'e' of the prayer to the petition on

23.1.2014. The learned President's Counsel who appeared for the 1st & 2nd

Respondents vehemently objected to an issuance of an interim order by this

court. He inter alia submitted to this court that the subject matter of this

application is not amenable to the writ jurisdiction of this court, and

demonstrated to court that the Petitioner's application for interim relief

cannot be allowed to stand since a charge sheet would be issued as in P8, in

due course and that the allegations against the Petitioner are of a serious

nature. The position of the Petitioner as submitted to this court by the learned

counsel for the Petitioner is that there is no evidence whatsoever to establish

a prima facie case against the Petitioner. Learned counsel argues that his

client was interdicted for a criminal offence and up to date no investigations

have commenced.

In paragraphs 20, 21, 22 & 23 of the Petition certain reasons are

adduced by the Petitioner contesting the interdiction. I have noted the

contents of the said paras. The question is whether any interim relief should

be granted to the Petitioner in the manner pleaded?

[ It i I f [

I I I I ! l I !

4

The substantive relief prayed for by the Petitioner is to quash the

determination and the decision contained in letter P8. Petitioner also prays for

a stay order to stay the effect of letter P8. The effect of prayer 'b' & 'c' are the

same, except that the relief prayed for in sub para 'c' for interim relief is

sought at an early stage in these proceedings. This court is not inclined to

grant interim relief at this stage. It is prudent to inquire into the substantive

matter in view of the serious nature of the allegations dealing with

misappropriation of finances.

The inconvenience to the Respondents seems to be greater and the

balance of convenience would not favour the Petitioner. On the other hand

the Petitioner's application for substantive relief will not be rendered nugatory

since court need to hear both parties and should also have the opportunity to

peruse all pleadings i.e objections and counter objections, at the close of

pleadings to decide on the validity of document P8. This court is not inclined to

rule on P8 at this stage of the proceedings. To add to the above I have

considered the views expressed in CM. Row's Law of Injunction 5

th Ed. Pg.

201. The balance of convenience means, is the comparative mischief or

inconvenience to the parties.

!

f I [ I • I I