==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I i 1 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

M.S.M.Mohamed Misba alias

Mohamed Hussain of

No 137, Mihiripenna Road,

Dharga Town.

Plaintiff-Appellant (deceased)

1 (A) Mohamed Saheed Hassan

No 137, Mihiripenna Road,

Dharga Town.

Substituted Plaintiff-Appellant

Vs

C.A.Appeal No 65/1999 (F)

D.C.Kalutara No 5730/P

1. Abdul Hassan Masrikar Fasthima

Hussain,

No 137, Mihiripenna Road,

Dharga Town.

I

1

2. Mohamed Rameez Cader

3. Abdul Cader Hadjiar Mohamed

Nassar

Both of No 120, Mihiripenna

Road, Dharga Town.

4. Abdul Hassan Marikar Suratul

Uhura, No 10, New Road,

New Path, Dharga Town.

Defendants-Respondents

Before: H.N.J.Perera,J.

Counsel: Ifthikar Hassim for the Substituted Plaintiff-Appellant

H.Withanachchi for the 2nd & 3rd Defendant-Respondents

Argued On: 29.08.2013

Decided On: 08.11.2013

H.N.J.Perera,J.

The Plaintiff-Appellant instituted this partition action on 30.10.1989

seeking to partition a land called IIYalagahawatte Negenahira Deken

Panguwa" [Eastern Half Share of Yalagahawatte] containing in extent

1 Acre and 2 Roods at Mihiripenna. The said corpus to be partitioned

had been described in the schedule to the plaint in respect of a land

I 1 I

! I

called {{ Yahalagahawatta Divided Eastern Half Share Portion" having

an extent of 1 acre and 2 roods and registered under folio No

601/179 and A214/173 and the boundaries of the said land had been

described as follows:-

North: IIlangankandewatta

East: Kandabodawatta

South: Kabulkotuwawatta

West: Balance portion of the said land

According to the pedigree set out in the plaint the land on suit, was

owned by Ismail Lebbe Marikar Mohamadu Lebbe Marikar by virtue

of deed No 9549 dated 06.10.1915 {P4}.There is no dispute between

the parties that the entirety of the corpus was owned by Ismail

Lebbe Marikar Mohamadu Lebbe Marikar. According to plaintiff the

said Mohamed Lebbe Marikar in terms of deed No 10887 dated

12.03. 1917 {P5} purported to gift the said corpus to his six children

reserving unto himself a life interest and the right to revoke the said

deed of gift. It is the position of the plaintiff that the said deed had

not been accepted by the donees in order to constitute it as a valid

deed of gift. And thereafter the said Mohamed Lebbe Marikar in

terms of deed No 14383 dated 15.06.1924 {P6} gifted the said corpus

excluding the house situated on the said corpus to his daughter

Mohamed Lebbe Marikar Ummu Naima Nachchiya and her husband

Abdul Cafoor Hadjiar Abdul Hassan. The plaintiff further states that

the Mohamed Lebbe Marikar Ummu Naima Nachchiya became

entitled to the said entire corpus in terms of deed No 188 dated

05.07.1942 {P8} in that she had purchased what her husband had

conveyed to Abdul Hasdjiar Mohamed Muhsin in terms of deed No

2290 {P7}.

I

\

The plaintiff further states that the said Ummu Nachchiya died

leaving last will No 1847 bequeathing all rights to Abdul Hassan

which was admitted to probate in D.C.Kalutara case No 3253/T and

her husband, Abdul Hassan by deed No 10241 gifted 1 acre to his

daughter, Marikar Fathumma, the 1st Defendant and also gifted the

balance ~ acre to his son-in-law, the plaintiff. It is further averred

that the original owner Lebbe Marikar who was left with the tiled

house on the land died leaving six children and as Ahamed Abdulla

died unmarried and issueless his rights in respect of the house

devolved on his other brothers and sisters and later on the 1st, 4th,

2nd, and 3rd defendants as stated in the plaint.

The position taken by the 2nd & 3rd Defendants was that the said

Lebbe Marikar by deed No 14342 (2D8) revoked the gift made on P5

and on the same day gifted the "Northern Portion of Eastern Half

Share while reserving a portion from the South together with two

other properties to his daughter and son-in-law by deed No 14383

(P6).

The case of the 2nd & 3rd defendants was that the land surveyed and

depicted in plan No 1195 (X) was Southern Portion of the land

retained by Lebbe Marikar after giving the Northern Portion on P6.

When the said Lebbe Marikarn executed the deed of gift P6 in favour

of Ummu Nachjchiya and her husband, he had specifically excluded

Southern half an acre in which his residing house was situated and

retained the said portion up to the time of his death. It is submitted

on behalf of the respondent that the plaintiff had misrepresented

that what Lebbe Marikar had excluded from deed No 14383 (P6) was

only the said house. On a perusal of the said deed P6/2D8 it is clearly

I

\

I

seen that what was excluded and retained by Lebbe Marikar was the

Southern half an acre on which the house stood.

It is the position of the respondents that the land depicted as lot 1 in

plan 1195 (x) the preliminary plan, corresponded to the ((Southern

Portion of Eastern half share of Yalagahawatta, and not the entire

Eastern half share as alleged by the plaintiff and that it should

devolve on all the children of Lebbe Marikar.

From the submissions made on behalf of the respondents and the

appellants it is clearly seen that what is depicted in the preliminary

plan X is only a Portion of the land described in the schedule to the

plaint. The surveyor had failed to survey the entire land that is

described in the schedule to the plaint.

It is submitted on behalf of the substituted plaintiff that Ismail Lebbe

Marikar Mohamed Lebbe Marikar was entitled to the land called ((

Yahalagahawatta" divided eastern half share portion as described in

the schedule to the plaint having an extent of 1Acre and two Roods.

It is also admitted that the said Lebbe Marikar had conveyed the

said premises in terms of deed No 14383 (P6) to his daughter Ummu

Naima Nachchiya and her husband but excluding half an acre from

the southern portion of the said land together with a tiled house

situated therein.

It is further submitted on behalf of the plaintiff that the corpus

sought to be partitioned in this action and described in the schedule

to the plaint had not been depicted in the preliminary plan No 1195

(X) but only the Southern portion of the said land that had been

excluded by the said Ismail Lebbe Marikar when deed No 14383 (P6)

had been executed.

I

1

1

1

It is contended that the surveyor had failed to depict the said land of

1 acre and two roods, but had depicted a part of the said land having

an extent of two roods and 23.25 perches in terms of plan X. The

corpus described in schedule three of deed No 14383 is said to have

an extent of 2 acres of which the northern portion had one and a

half acres and the southern portion an extent of half an acre and

therefore should have been depicted entirety in terms of a plan to

determine the northern and southern portions of the said land and

that the said southern portion of the said land had not been

transacted as a separate entity in any of the deeds but as a part of 1/

Yahalagahawatta divided eastern half share portion."

In Brampy Appuhamy Vs Menis Appuhamy 60 N.L.R.337, it was held

that:-

(1)That the court acted wrongly in proceeding to trial in respect of

what appeared to be a portion only to the land described in the

plaint.

(2) That when the surveyor proceeded to execute his commission

and was unable to locate a land of about 6 acres, he should

have reported that fact to court and asked for its further

directions.

It was further held that it is the duty of a surveyor to whom a

commission is issued to adhere strictly to its terms and locate and

survey the land he is commissioned to survey. It is not open to

him to survey any land pointed out by one or more of the parties

and prepare and submit to the court the plan and report of such

survey. If he is unable to locate the land he is commissioned to

survey, he should so report to the court and ask for further

instructions.

I J

In G.A.D.P.De S Jayasuriya Vs A.M.Ubaid 61 N.L.R.353 Sansoni, J.

Observed that "there is no question that there was a duty cast on

the Judge to satisfy himself as to the identity of the land sought to

be partitioned, and for this purpose it was always open to him to

call for further evidence in order to make proper investigation.

In a partition action there is a duty cast on the Judge to satisfy

himself as to the identity of the land sought to be partitioned, and

for this purpose it is always open to him to call for further

evidence (in a regular manner ) in order to make a proper f

investigation.

In Wickremaratne V Albenis Pererra (1986) 1 Sri L.R. 190 it was

held that:-"In a partition action, there are certain duties cast on

the court quite apart from objections that mayor may not be

taken by the parties "and this includes the "supervening duty to

satisfy itself as to the corpus and also at the title of each and every

party who claims title to it."

In Sopinona Vs Pitipanaarachchi and two others [2010] 1 Sri L.R.

87 it was held that:-

Clarity in regard to the identity of the corpus is fundamental to

the investigation of title in a partition case, without proper

identification of the corpus it would be impossible to conduct a

proper investigation of title.

The learned District Judge in his judgment has come to the correct

conclusion that the corpus sought to be partitioned in this action

and described in the schedule to the plaint having an extent of 1

Acre and 2 roods had not been depicted in the said preliminary

plan marked X but only the southern portion of the said land that

had been excluded by the said Ismail Lebbe Marikar when the said

I

f

\ II

i , II II

ftf III

deed No 14383 P6 had been executed. The corpus that had been

depicted in terms of the said plan X is only the southern portion of

the said land which has an extent of 2 Roods and 23.25 Perches.

And yet the learned District Judge had proceeded to order the

partition of the Southern portion of the said land which is only of

2 Roods and 23.25 Perches. In the instant case the plaintiff sought

to partition a land of about 1 Acre and 2 Roods and the surveyor

was commissioned to survey a land of about that extent. Section

16 of the Partition Law requires the court to order the issue of a

commission to a surveyor directing him to survey the land to

which the action relates. In the instant case the commissioner

had surveyed a land of only 2 Roods and 23.25 Perches. Section

25 of the Partition Law empowers the court to try and determine

the matters referred to therein and examine the title of each

party to or in the land to which the action relates. In this case the

action relates to one land and the determination of the court to

another. The court acted wrongly in proceeding to trial in respect

of what appeared to be a portion only of the land described in the

schedule to the plaint.

Accordingly, for the reasons aforesaid I set aside the judgment of

the District Court, Kalutara, and remit the case to the District

Court for fresh proceedings to be taken in accordance with section

16 and the other provisions of the Partition Law.

Case sent back for retrial.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

I !

\

I ; I I

\ , II I

I,

! [