==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 245/2011 (Writ)

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

Lankem Ceylon PLC.

No. 98, Sri Sangaraja Mawatha,

Colombo 10.

PETITIONER

Vs.

Consumer Affairs Authority

1st and 2nd Floors

CWE Secretariat Building

No. 27, Vauxhall Street,

Colombo 2.

Director General

Consumer Affairs Authority

1st and 2nd Floors

CWE Secretariat Building

No. 27, Vaux Street,

Colombo 2

Rumy Marzook

Chairman

Milton Amarasinghe

Full-time Member

Major-General P. Chandrawansha

Full-time Member

1

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J.

H.N.J. Perera J &

P.W.D.e. Jayathilake J.

6. Varuni Alawwa

Member.

All of the Consumer Affairs Authority

1st and 2nd Floors

CWE Secretariat Building

No. 27, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2.

7. L.c.e. de Silva

No. 71/1, Poorvarama Road,

Colombo 8.

RESPONDNETS

Nilshantha Sirimanne for the Petitioner

Instructed by Amarasuriya Associates

Janak De Silva D.S.G. for 1st - 6th Respondents

07.06.2013,26.07.2013 & 13.03.2014

30.10.2014

2

tIt!Il tJ!

Jfl,

~ ,

rt

~ t I

fII! I

f ,I,

I i ! ! I I I 1

• 3

GOONERATNE J.

Lankem Ceylon PLC is the Petitioner in this Writ Application.

Petitioner Company has sought writs of certiorari, prohibition and mandamus.

Writs of certiorari is sought to quash orders produced and marked as P16(a),

P16(b) dated 07.02.2011 issued by the 1st and or 3rd to 6th Respondents

pertaining to a complaint made by the th Respondent, Mr. L.e.e. de Silva. A

Writ of Prohibition is sought to restrain 1st to 6th Respondents from conducting

any inquiry as regards the complaint of the th Respondent, and to prevent any

prosecution in the Magistrate's Court against the Petitioner Company, in

pursuance of orders P16(a) & P 16(b). Mandamus is sought to conduct a full

and fair inquiry as regards the complaint of the 7th Respondent.

When this matter came up before the then President of the Court of

Appeal on 15.03.2011, court issued formal notice and also issued a stay order

as per sub paras (g' and (h' of the prayer to the petition. The stay order issued

as above had been periodically extended. In fact this application was argued

before the then President of this court comprising of two members of the

f

~ ! 1 i I I I

~ i

4

Bench and Judgment was reserved. However on 12.03.2013 as per journal

entry of the said date, it is recorded that since there was a difference of

opinion between the two judges who heard the application, a Divisional Bench

was constituted to hear and conclude this application and since then the stay

order issued as above had been extended periodically.

The facts that led to filing of this Writ Application are as follows. The

ih Respondent obtained the services of the Petitioner Company to treat a

concrete Terrazo floor area of about 3000 square feet to his house, which was

undergoing renovation as described by the Petitioner Company. The Petitioner

Company provided the termite control services on 07.10.2008 at a cost of Rs.

44,495/-. By document marked P3 Petitioner Company, provided an express

warranty to the ih Respondent. The warranty was to the effect that within a

period of 5 years, if termite attacks recur in areas treated by the Petitioner

Company, it would free of charge re treat the area completely. On or about

11.06.2010 the ih Respondent informed the company that he noticed termite

attacks in certain areas of the floor. Representatives of the Petitioner

Company had promptly inspected the floor area, and as stated by the

Petitioner the 7th Respondent informed them that the floor area on which he

5

had allegedly installed wooden floor boards had been attacked. Petitioner also

contends that no such floor boards were available for the Petitioner's

inspection at such time, and the i

h Respondent had caused all the floor

boards to be removed, prior to such inspection. The area as inspected by the

representatives of the Petitioner Company noticed an area of about 600

square feet which was subject to termite attack. The area is in extent of l/Sth

of the previously treated area. As such said area of 600 square feet was re-

treated, and duly complied with the warranty. ((P3) vide P7 & P8a) Petitioner

also offered to treat the new wooden floor boards that the ih Respondent

thereafter was seeking to install on the floor area and which offer was also

accepted by the ih Respondent. As such Petitioners new wooden floor boards

were also treated free of charge (P7 & P8b) Even after above the ih

Respondent by P6 (17.06.2010) complained that after re-treatment live

termites were observed and claimed a sum of Rs. 360,000/-.

Notwithstanding above a notice (P9) dated 13.09.2010 was received,

by which the ih Respondent lodged a written complaint with the 1st

Respondent on or about 27.08.2010 in respect of the said termite control

services provided by the Petitioner. Inquiry into the above complaint was

I I ! ! I t I l

1 ! 1 j I

J

I 1

1 I

j

1 ,

! I

• 6

conducted by 4th to 6th Respondents, on 18.11.2010 (Pl0) and 08.12.2010

(P14) with the participation of the th Respondent and the representatives of

the Petitioner Company. It is also pleaded that prior to above a preliminary

discussion was held earlier. (Pll) It is also pleaded that the Petitioner moved

to have the complaint of the th Respondent dismissed and raised the

following preliminary objections at the inquiry.

(a) Petitioner not furnished with a copy of the complaint of th Respondent.

(b) Complaint of th Respondent is time barred under Section 13(2) of the

Consumer Authority Act.

(c) 1st Respondent has no authority or jurisdiction to inquire into the th

Respondent's complaint under the said Section 13(1). Termite control

services provided by the Petitioner does not fall within 13 (1) (a) or (b) of

the said Act.

As regards Section 13(1) (a) the requirements, of Section 12 of the

Act must be satisfied Section 13(1) (b) applies only to the manufacture of sale

of goods and not to the provisions of services.

I \ 1 I

I 1 I I

I !

1 1

• 7

Petitioner contend that at no stage was the written complaint of the

7th Respondent at least read or shown to the Petitioners representatives. As

regards the time bar the 1st Respondent Authority referred to the case of

David Peiris Motor Company Vs. Consumer Affairs Authority CA 635/2007 and

state that warranty given to goods/products the time bar in 13(2) does not

apply. Petitioner reject this argument based on CA 635/2007 and state that the

said case apply to manufacture of goods and not provision of services. Case

635/2007 does not apply to the facts and circumstances of the case in hand.

However as argued by the Petitioner the 1st Respondent continued with the

inquiry without ruling on the above preliminary issue, in spite of the objections

of the Petitioner Company. It is also said that Petitioners representatives

informed the 1st Respondent Authority that if the inquiry proceeds without a

determination of the preliminary objections, Petitioner would not participate

at the inquiry. In this connection I would refer to the following paragraphs of

the Petition.

Consequently, the 1st Respondent's representatives clearly informed the

Petitioner at the said purported inquiry that they would not be making a

final order in respect of the ih Respondent's complaint and instead would

inform the Petitioner of the 1st Respondent's future course of action.

1 I

j I 1 1

l I I

!

• 8

As such, the Petitioner's representatives were made to believe that the 1st

Respondent would first make its determination in respect of the said

preliminary objections and communicate the same to the Petitioner prior

to inquiring any further into ih Respondent's said complaint.

By letter of 14.2.2011 marked P16(a) by which the decision of the 1st

Respondent was communicated the order in this regard is contained in

document marked P16(b). The documents annexed to the order are submitted

marked P17 and the petitioner state that for the first time they received the

Petitioner's complaint marked P17(a). Petitioner also highlight certain

inaccuracies and statements contained in the order P16(b). Petitioner

maintains that at no time did the Petitioner withdraw the objections that the

complainant's (7th Respondent) written complaint was not made available.

Further Petitioner never submitted written statements and as such statement

to that effect is false. Petitioner Company urge that order made by the 1st

Respondent is illegal, ultra vires unlawful, erroneous, arbitrary, irrational,

unreasonable, unfair, misconceived, in violation of the principles of natural

justice and the legitimate expectations entered by the petitioner and or

disproportionate for the several grounds stated in para 49(a) to (I) of the

petition.

9

The ih Respondent has not filed objections in this Writ Application.

Except at the very initial stage of these proceedings, an Attorney-at-Law

appeared for the ih Respondent on a particular day but thereafter was absent

and unrepresented. However the points gather from the pleading filed on

behalf of 1st to 6th Respondents, inter alia disclose the following

(1) By R1 & R2, state that the order against the petitioner is a collective

decision of the members of the 1st Respondent Authority and the Board

has approved such decision.

(2) Inquiry conducted according to law

(3) Quotation P3 admitted.

(4) Paper advertisement and R4 clearly provides that the period of warrant

is 10 years.

(5) Petitioner treated an area of 600 square feet according to the ih

Respondent and officers of the Petitioner Company were informed that

imported timber flooring will be used.

(6) Petitioner never denied that the floor area treated on the first occasion

was infected by termites nor did the Petitioner take up the position that

the floor boards referred to by the ih Respondent was infected.

(7) Petitioner treated the area which was affected without any additional

costs to the ih Respondent.

ft

~irI

I

I

10

(8) P6 admitted.

(9) P4 indicates all parties signed the contents of discussion held on

30.09.2010, which was held to explore the possibility of

settling/resolving the issue. On that date 7th Respondent briefed the

contents of the complaint.

(10) Petitioners representatives never requested for the formal complaint

of the ih Respondent at the inquiry held on 18.11.2010. However at the

request of the inquiry panel the i h Respondent explained the content of

the complaint. By P9 contents of the complaint informed to Petitioner.

Apart from above in the objections of the Respondent further details

are provided as follows:

(a) The Petitioners raised three (3) preliminary objections at the inquiry held on

08.12.2010. The panel explained the position relating to the first two objections and

the Petitioner accepted that they are unable to maintain the said 1st two objections.

In respect of the 3rd objection, the panel informed that a ruling will be given;

(b) It is denied that the Petitioner was "totally unaware" of the actual contents of the

written complaint of the ih Respondent. At the request of the Inquiry Panel, the i

h

Respondent explained the contents of his complaint at the commencement of the

formal inquiry on 18.11.2010. In any event the contents of the complaint were

informed to the Petitioner by P9.

(c) On the 2nd preliminary objection, the inquiry panel brought to the attention of the

Petitioners' representatives the unreported judgment of the Court of Appeal in

David Peiris Motor Company Ltd. vs. Consumer Affairs Authority and 8 others (C.A

11

(Writ) 635/2007; C.A Minutes of 03.08.2009}. This gives a wide interpretation to the

time limit. The inquiry panel informed the Petitioner's representatives that the

Authority will be relying on this decision and that it will be considering the "goods"

used to provide the services. This has been explained in the order as well;

(d) The inquiry panel took the position that this service is not a service within the

meaning of the Act but this service involves the use of a particular good/chemical.

Therefore, the Authority has taken up the position that if the chemical used in the

service does not conform to the implied guarantee or warranty given by the

Petitioner, the ih Respondent has the right to complain to the Authority.

In this Writ Application one of the main grounds urged on behalf of the

Petitioner Company is that the 1st Respondent Authority has no

power/authority or jurisdiction to make or pronounce the orders marked and

produced P16(1) and P16(b). It is interesting to ascertain at the very outset as

to whether the Consumer Affairs Authority could inquire into a dispute of this

nature. Let us look at the available statutory provisions. Section 12 refer to

determining standards and specifications relating to goods and services.

Section 12 reads thus:

(l) The Authority may for the purpose of protecting the consumer and ensuring the

quality of goods sold or services provided, by Notification published in the Gazette,

from time to time, determine such standards and specifications relating to the

production, manufacture, supply storage, transportations and sale of any goods, and

to the supply of any services.

12

(2) The Authority may by Notification published in the Gazette adopt such standards

and specifications prescribed by the Sri Lanka Standards Institution established by

the Sri Lanka Standards Institution Act. No. 6 of 1984, relating to the production,

manufacture, supply storage, transportation and sale of any goods, and to the

supply of any services, as standards and specifications, to be determined under

subsection (1).

The power and authority to inquire into a complaint is dealt in

Section 13 of the Act.

Section 13 reads thus:

(1) the Authority may inquire into complaints regarding-

(a) the production, manufacture, supply storage, transportation or sale of any

goods, and to the supply of any services, which does not conform to the

standards and specifications determined under section 12; and

(b) the manufacture or sale of any goods which does not conform to warranty or

guarantee given by implication or otherwise, by the manufacturer or trader.

(2) A complaint under subsection (1) which relates to the sale of any goods or to the

provision of any service shall be made to the Authority in writing within three

months of the sale of such goods or the provisions of such service, as the case

may be.

(3) At any inquiry held into a complaint under subsection (1), the Authority shall give

the manufacturer or trader against whom such complaint is made an

opportunity of being heard either in person or by an agent nominated in that

behalf.

13

(4) where after an inquiry into a complaint, the Authority is of opinion that a

manufacture or sale of any goods or the provision of any services has been made

which does not conform to the standards or specifications determined or

deemed to be determined by the Authority, or that a manufacture or sale has

been made of any goods not conforming to any warranty or guarantee given by

implication or otherwise by the manufacturer or trader, it shall order the

manufacturer or trader to pay compensation to the aggrieved party or to replace

such goods or to refund the amount paid for such goods or the provision of such

service, as the case may be.

(5) An order under subsection (4) shall be made in writing and be communicated to

such manufacturer or trader by registered post.

(6) where any manufacturer or trader fails or refuses to comply with an order made

under subsection (4) of this section, such manufacturer or trader shall be guilty

of an offence under this Act and the sum of money due on the order as

compensation or refund may on application being made in that behalf by the

Authority to the Magistrate's Court having jurisdiction over the place of business

or residence of such manufacturer or trader as the case may be, be recovered in

like manner as a fine imposed by such court, notwithstanding that such sum may

exceed the amount of a fine which that court may in the exercise of its ordinary

jurisdiction impose.

The Petitioner no doubt argues that the 1st Respondent has no

power/authority to hear and determine a complaint made by the t h

Respondent. Then again the Petitioner maintains that unless standards and

specifications referred to in Section 12 had been adopted or determined (by a

( Ie 14

Gazette) the 1st Respondent cannot inquire into any complaint. In fact no

gazette or prescribed standard (as in Act No.6 of 1984) have been placed

before this court by either party. Further the Petitioner puts much emphasis

on the services provided to th Respondent. I have read with much interest the

written submissions of both parties. Both parties by their written submissions

fortify each others' position as argued by both learned counsel.

One has to consider the quotations at P3 to arrive at a decision to

ascertain the nature of the transaction, which ultimately result in the

arrangement and agreement between parties.

P3 quotation is described as quotation for termite control service.

The beginning of P3 refer to treatment. Under the treatment gives details of

what would be done. e.g drill the floor, treat the floor/skirting etc. Then the

type of chemical to be used. Biflex, chlorpyrifes and fipronil - description of

difference of each chemical but finally the Petitioner Company recommends

Biflex as a chemical to be used to control termite. The other important aspect

in P3 is the warranty period of 5 years. It is evident that trained or skill persons

in the trade need to introduce the chemical Biflex. Some difficulty would arise

to decide between the sale of goods and services. The product as well as the

I lt

15

service need to go hand in hand. Both need to be combined to reach finality,

to the satisfaction of any client. But there is emphasis that lour services with

Biflex will cover you with 5 years free of maintenance period". It is for the

product of Biflex that the warranty had been extended. Total cost of Biflex is

Rs. 33495/- , about 3/4th of value of contact. Therefore I agree with the

argument of learned Deputy Solicitor General that it is the substance of the

contract that would be the deciding factor. The real substance of the contract

is the ultimate result.

The Sale oj Goods: Atiyah, Adams & Macqueen 11th Ed. Pg. 27 ..

lilt is thus clear that the distinction between goods and services will often remain of some

importance in the law, and it will still occasionally be necessary to distinguish between a

contract of sale of goods and a contract for the supply of services. The test for deciding,

whether a contract falls into one category or the other is to ask what is 'the substance' of

the contract. If the substance of the contract is the skill and labour of the supplier, then the

contract is one for services, whereas if the real substance of the contract is the ultimate

result - the goods to be provided - then the contract is one of sale of goods."

Robinson v. Graves (1935) 1 KB 579 at 587

.... "The substance of the contract was, goods to be sold and delivered by the one party to

the other." I treat that judgment as indicating that in the view of Blackburn J. one has to

look to the substance of the contract.

16

It is a travesty of justice both to the consumer and the trader to be

denied the protection afforded to them by the Act NO.9 of 2003, if the

complaints of consumers and traders are shut out or kept out. The provision

contained in Section 13 of the Act is wide and capable to entertain complaint

of a kind made by the ih Respondent. I do agree with the learned Deputy

Solicitor General that the application of the ih Respondent is one falling within

the provisions of Section 13(1)(b) of the Act.

This is a statute as described in the preamble to protect the

consumer and the trader. The objects of the authority are contained in Section

7 of the Act. I would advert to the following sub-sections of Section 7 which

makes specific reference to the consumer, and the law gives due consideration

to a requests by a consumers as well to protect.

The object of the Authority shall be-

7 (a) to protect consumers against the marketing of goods or the provision of services

which are hazardous to life and property of consumers;

7 (b)

7 (d)

to protect consumers against unfair trade practices and guarantee that

consumers interest shall be given due consideration;

to seek redress against unfair trade practices, restrictive trade practices or any

other forms of exploitation of consumers by traders.

I

~ J ! I J I

'I , I I I j I I f i I

I

17

I would draw support to arrive at a conclusion having perused the

following Rules of interpretation of Statutes.

"Statutes have to be construed in a manner so as to promote the purpose and object of

the Act, and not too literally so as to defeat the purpose or render the provision otiose"

(Bindra, Interpretation of Statutes; 8th ed., page 527).

tlln tlsocial welfare legislation literal construction is not commended, but the Court must

look to the object and purpose of legislation" ... " (Bindra, Interpretation of Statutes; 8th

ed., page 542).

"Socio-economic legislation, with the object of securing social welfare, is not meant to

be interpreted narrowly so as to defeat its object" (Bindra, Interpretation of Statutes; 8th

ed., page 541)

tilt is well settled that that in construing the provisions of welfare legislation, courts

should adopt what is sometimes described as a beneficent rule of construction, and

should construe liberally." (Bindra, Interpretation of Statutes; 8th ed., pages 540).

I also need to comment on the time limit referred to in Section 13(2)

of the Act. The three months referred to therein is more or less is directory --

and not mandatory. Depending on the nature of goods/services it may take

more than three months, to detect some form of defect in the goods

purchased or the services obtained. In the case in hand the pesticide described

18

as Biflex should act as a resistant to termites. As such the trader/manufacturer

has thought it fit to provide a warranty for five years. All this must have been

contemplated after testing the chemical and giving some time for possible

reactions. Otherwise the warranty period may be a shorter period i.e one year.

As such the deciding factor would be the guarantee period which could vary

from product to product. As such a complaint within the guarantee period

would suffice and this count cannot rule in favour of the Petitioner Company,

on this aspect.

In view of all above we hold that the 1st Respondent has the

Authority to entertain a complaint of this nature, and accordingly has

jurisdiction to hear and determine this dispute. Definition in Section 75 of

'service' is not exhaustive. That is why one has to look at the substance and

the material supplied i.e Biflex is not merely incidental to the transaction, but

depended and part and parcel of the contract of sale of goods.

This court having perused all the material placed before court, both

oral and documentary is satisfied for the reasons stated above that the 1st

Respondent Authority has jurisdiction/Power to inquire into a dispute of this

nature in the manner facts were presented before this court. Although such

,I

19

powers are vested with the 1st Respondent Authority, the next important issue

is to ascertain whether there is a breach of the rules of natural justice, in the

manner pleaded and the way the purported inquiry was conducted by the 1st

Respondent Authority. In fact learned counsel for the Petitioner vehemently

argued on this aspect in favour of his client and referred to certain items and

points which surface from the inquiry proceedings itself.

One of the initial and basic point raised by learned counsel for the

Petitioner was that the failure of the authorities concerned namely the 1st

Respondent Authority to provide the Petitioner Company with the written

complaint of the ih Respondent, and whatever annextures to the said

complaint. This court observes that the Respondents in para 23(e) of the

statement of objections specifically aver that a copy of the complaint was

given to the Petitioner for the first time with the impugned order marked

P16(b). However Respondent maintain that the representatives of the

Petitioner Company, requested for a copy of the complaint at the formal

inquiry which began on 18.11.2011. Further the Respondent aver that at the

commencement of the inquiry at the request of the inquiry panel, 7th

Respondent explained the contents of his complaint (vide P9).

II

20

Let me consider letter P9. It is a letter requesting the Petitioner

Company to be present at an inquiry into a complaint made by the ih

Respondent. It no doubt gives the bare details of the complaint which states

that whole floor boards have been attacked by termites, and had to be

replaced. If one compares the formal complaint P17(a) of the ih Respondent

what is stated in P9 is hardly sufficient for the purpose. Magnitude of the

problem would also and may require expert views? The ends of justice cannot

be met on mere assertions, bare details, and utterances made during the

progress of the inquiry.

The authorities cited on behalf of the Respondent are useful, but

such views cannot be projected in a haphazard manner merely to explain the

basis of natural justice, in cases involving scientific/chemical and technical

aspects. The opportunity to place evidence cannot be denied.

The obligation which the law casts on it is that it should not act on

any information which it may receive unless it is put to the party against whom

it is to be used and give him a fair opportunity to explain or refute it

Chulasubadra de Silva Vs. University of Colombo and others (1986) 2 SLR288 at

300.

I!I ! IIII

I I If f 1

~ !

I I

1

1 1

1 1 1

21

It is evident that the written complaint of the th Respondent was not

made available to the Petitioner Company at any time prior to the 1st

Respondent's impugned order. On the inquiry date (8.12.2010 - P14) at the

very outset of the said proceeding, it is stated a copy of the complaint was not

made available to the Petitioner. The proceedings at P14 reveal that the

inquiry panel had recorded the other preliminary objections raised by the

Petitioner Company. The penultimate para of P14 indicates that the inquiry

panel would not arrive at a final decision. Therefore all the facts would be

considered and would inform the parties of the future course of action or

steps of the authority. It is recorded as It. (f~ (f~ ~e5) oO~ ~

What was the future course of action of the 1st Respondent

Authority? 1st Respondent clearly indicates as above that it would clearly notify

the parties of its future course of action. A responsible authority had

represented to the parties concerned and also kept them to guess about the

future course of action. The merits of the complaint had not been fully

l

t

22

inquired by the 1st Respondent. It has been left open for the parties to place

further material, according to the undertaking given by the authority. The

Consumer Affairs Authority has thereby failed to provide a fair and a

reasonable opportunity to the Petitioner Company to present its case,

properly and bring its case to the very end. Instead the authority thought it fit

to conclude proceeding and decided to make a final determination. This court

observes that the merits of the dispute had not been fully considered and no

opportunity given to either party to place more material.

In a case of this magnitude and nature it would have been desirable

to get the views of an independent expert. Finality to the problem had not

t

I !

been reached. The abrupt termination of proceedings no doubt result in a

grave injustice to the parties, more particularly to the Petitioner. There is no I

indication of the inquiry panel reserving its order or ascertaining from either

party whether they intend to lead evidence or place more

information/material before the panel. Nor do the panel indicate to parties

that proceedings are terminated. As such an opportunity was lost to the

Petitioner Company to reach the end of the dispute. Perusal of the entire

proceedings indicates that proceedings of 18.11.2010 (P11) was only a

23

discussion and only one date of inquiry was held on 18.12.2010 (P14), which

ended abruptly without a firm indication as to what would be the text step, by

merely stating that parties would be notified? Was it left to the parties to

surmise? I would draw more details and refer to the following authorities to

demonstrate instances of clear breach of natural justice, and such authorities

support the facts of the case in hand in all respects.

1. In this regard, the Judgment of the Hon. Supreme Court in Izadeen v. Director-General of

Civil Aviation (1996) 2 SLR 348 (at pg. 354), is most relevant, wherein it was held by His

Lordship G.P.S. De Silva., as follows:

" .... for the Respondent strenuously contended before us that there was no need

whatsoever for a formal inquiry. The "inquiry team" had probed all aspects that

need to be considered and had questioned the Respondent and the student pilot

on all relevant matters. With these submissions, I find myself unable to agree.

The inquiry conducted by the "inquiry team" was at best an inquiry of a

preliminary nature. In my view, the Respondent cannot possibly rely on the

statement of the Petitioner and his student pilot recorded on 1st May 1993 as

constituting compliance with the rules of natural justice. There is no material on

record to show that the Petitioner was informed at that stage of the precise

nature of the allegations against him. He had no opportunity whatever of calling

evidence in support of his position. As far as the Petitioner was concerned, the

inquiry concluded in a matter of a few hours on the 1st of May itself. It was not

even the finding of the Court of Appeal that a formal inquiry was unnecessary in

the facts and circumstances of this case".

Kulatunga J. (agreeing with G.P.S. De Silva c.J) also held as follows (at pages 355

and 356) in the aforesaid case:

~ It If f 1I IIIII !III I! ! Ii

!IIf II

24

"I do not agree with the submission of learned counsel for the Respondent that there was

no need whatever for a formal inquiry. None of the decisions cited in support of that

submission has application to this case, in Ridge v. Baldwin Lord Hudson summed up thus:

"No one, I think disputes that three features of natural justice stand out - (1) the

right to be heard by an unbiased tribunal, (2) the right to have notice of the

charges of misconduct, (3) the right to be heard in answer to those charges."

I do not think I shall go far wrong if I regard ...... these three features as constituting in all

ordinary circumstances an irreducible minimum of the requirements of natural justice."

2. The Hon. Supreme Court held as follows in Jayatillake and Another Vs. Kaleel and Others

(1994) 1 SLR 319 (at pg. 394):

" ..... There are certain procedural safeguards which are recognized for ensuring

fair hearings e.g. the accused should be supplied with a fair statement of the

charges {Stevenson v. United Road Transport Union, he should be informed of

the exact nature of the charge (Labouchere v. Earl of Wharneliffe), he should be

given an opportunity of defending or palliating his conduct (Fisher v. Keane). The

opportunity should be fair, adequate and sufficient. Thus the right to be heard

will be illusory unless there is time and opportunity for the case to be met - Paul

Jackson 'Natural Justice' p. 63. An Oral hearing is another valuable safeguard

which ought to be provided unless it may be dispensed with having regard to the

subject matter, the rights involved and the nature of the inquiry."

3. In Pure Beverages Company Executive Officers Association V. Commissioner of Labour

(2001) 2 SLR 258 (at pg. 267) it was held by Your Lordships' Court that:

25

lilt is well to remember that principles of natural justice not only demand that the

affected party or parties should be herd but that they should be given a reasonable

opportunity to present their case."

In all the facts and circumstances of this case it is the view of this court

that the 1st Respondent Authority is guilty of a serious breach of natural

justice. Opportunity has to be fair, adequate and sufficient. It had been denied

to the Petitioner Company. A problem of such a magnitude should be carefully

considered and even based on independent expert's views. It may have solved

the case to a very great extent, though the Tribunal may not be bound by such

views. Petitioner was never informed that a decision on the merits of the case

of the ih Respondent would be pronounced after 08.12.2010. As such the

Petitioner lost a full and fair opportunity to meet the merits of the ih

Respondent's claim. If the chemical used was the direct cause of termite attack

or such chemical does not control the spread of termites, are matters to have

been inquired and to provide an opportunity to the Petitioner Company to

bring and place material/evidence. The inquiring Tribunal is under duty to get

to the root cause. In the absence of proper proof being elicited and to deprive

the Petitioner to do so is a grave error. The decision of the 1st Respondent is

I f f J ! I. f

26

highly irresponsible, irrational, arbitrary, unreasonable and illegal. Therefore

we direct that a Writ of Certiorari be issued as per sub para (bL of the prayer

to the Petition and a Writ of Prohibition as per sub para (d) of the prayer. This

application is allowed without costs as above.

Application allowed.

e~iJk~

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

H.N.J. Perera J.

I agree.

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake J.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

I ! I ! I II I , • , ; f

I

i I I

! I J f