==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Pinkanda Aratchilage Nimal

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

C.A 88/2011

H.C. Anuradhapura 257/2004

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

P. R. Walgama J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDENT

Srinath Perera P.c. with S.L. Bulathsinghalage

for the Accused-Appellant

Hiranjan Peiris S.S.c. for the Complainant-Respondent

02.12.2014

09.12.2014

1

,1 ! I I

I

2

GOONERATNE J.

The Accused-Appellant was a Soldier attached to the Sri Lanka Army.

Deceased was also a Soldier but somewhat higher in rank. Accused-Appellant

was indicted for the murder the deceased namely Ulagoda Mudiyanselage

Upul Padmashantha Seneviratne on 21.8.1998. The incident of shooting took

place inside the Mihintale Army Camp. The undisputed facts very briefly are as

follows.

Both the Accused and the deceased had been soldiers of a platoon

who were involved in an operation to wipe out terrorism from the

Trincomalee area, and which operation was described as 'Jayasikuru'. Having

been involved in the task described as above (Jayasikuru) the platoon

consisting of both the deceased and Accused-Appellant returned to the Army

Camp at Mihintale, on the day in question. It is in evidence that the soldiers in

the camp had their dinner at about 7.00/7.30 p.m. and a platoon of about

30/40 had no facilities to sleep inside the camp and as such, said numbers of

soldiers were given orders to go to a nearby school to spend the rest of the

day. The deceased Army personnel just prior to leaving to the nearby school

1 j

3

ordered the Accused-Appellant soldier to carry some water cans and

mattresses to the bus which was awaiting to take the soldiers to the said

school. At that moment itself the Accused-Appellant had scolded the deceased

in very bad language which need not be reproduced in this Judgment. The

deceased had, by the words uttered by the Accused squeezed both ears of the

Accused-Appellant. The eye witnesses describes in evidence as. t .... ~ (f~

It was suggested by both learned counsel that immediately after the

Accused's ears were squeezed by the deceased Soldier, the Accused had fired

at the deceased with a rifle in close range. Only one gun short was fired with

the rifle but depending on the gun that was used 2 entry wounds were found

in the body of the deceased. The deceased had been rushed to hospital and

the material disclosed to this court indicates that an emergency operation had

to be performed.

The medical evidence reveal that the death would have been

instantaneous but for the emergency operation. However the deceased died 4

days after the incident. Medico Legal Report suggest the setting in of

I I

1 I I I 1

I I I I I i I I

4

'septicaemia'. It is possible to argue that death was caused due to a

supervening condition.

I state that as submitted by learned President's Counsel and learned

Senior State Counsel the attendant circumstances warrant a substitution for

the conviction for murder, of a conviction of culpable homicide not amounting

to murder on the basis of grave and sudden provocation. The words uttered by

the Accused with anger may be due to previous enmity or otherwise. In the

Army the military regulations may require an officer of an high rank to give

orders to soldiers of a lower rank. It need to be obeyed. In any event all the

factual matters gathered does favour a plea of grave and sudden provocation.

I wonder why! The learned State Counsel who conducted the prosecution in

the High Court was not amenable to accept a plea on the basis of provocation.

In the circumstances, before I conclude it is prudent to refer to

Premlal VS. A.G 2000(2) SLR 403

Held: per Kulatilaka 1.

"Our Judgments interpreted the phrase "sudden provocation" to mean that provocation

should consist of a single act which occurred immediately before the killing so that there

was no time for the anger to cool and the act must have been such that it would have

made a reasonable man to react in the manner as the accused did."

f I I

\

5

) Therefore, we set aside the finding and conviction of murder and the

sentence of death are substitute a conviction for culpable homicide not

amounting to murder on the basis of grave and sudden provocation. We

impose a term of 15 years rigorous imprisonment. We also direct that the said

III

term of imprisonment will run from the date the Accused was convicted by the

learned High Court Judge (15.11.2011). This appeal is partly allowed.

Appeal partly allowed.

Sentence varied.

P. R. Walgama J.

I agree.

?,~.#~

JUDGE OF THE C&URT OF APPEAL

---------

I