==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 22/2012 (Writ)

M. M. Chandralatha Munasinghe

No. 86, Pathirajagama,

Thirappana

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. E.M. Gunasekera

Registrar General

Registrar General's Department

234/ A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa

Mawatha, Battaramulla.

2. K. A. Tilekeratne

Director General of Pensions,

Department of Pensions,

Maligawatte Secretariat,

Colombo 10.

And 6 others

RESPONDENTS

1

2

BEFORE: Ani! Gooneratne J.

COUNSEL: Maduranga Ratnayake for Petitioner

Kaushalya Molligoda for 8th Respondent

Vikum de Abrew D.S.G., for 1st - 4th, 6th & 7th Respondents

ARGUED ON: 29.11.2013

DECIDED ON: 23.5.2014

GOONERATNE J.

Petitioner in this application has sought Writs of Certiorari,

Mandamus & Prohibition. The prayer to the petition refer to numerous

remedies by way of the above writs. The case in a nutshell is that two wives of

the Piyadasa Serugolla (deceased) claim the pension of the deceased.

Petitioner was married to the deceased (Deega Marriage P1) in the year 1977.

She had some spells abroad for employment at Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.

Petitioner claims to have visited Sri Lanka on and off and during the period she

was available in Sri Lanka, she learnt that the deceased had an affair with

another lady (8th Respondent) to whom the deceased married for the second

i I

1 1 I

I I I 1

I i " 1

1

'.

3

time, on the basis of dissolution of the first marriage with the Petitioner, and

the Petitioner claims to have no knowledge of the dissolution of marriage.

The above Piyadasa Serugolla died on or about June 2004, and the

Petitioner applied for the pension, and to her dismay was informed that the

marriage was dissolved and she would not be entitled to a pension. Petitioner

applied for a certificate of dissolution from the District Registrar,

Anuradhapura and the reply (PS) was that no marriage had been dissolved and

as such from January 2008 she received a pension. However on or about July

2010 (P10) letter was received by the Ombudsman (6th Respondent) regarding

a complaint made by the 8th Respondent as regards the pension and to attend

an inquiry. At the inquiry the 8th Respondent produced the marriage certificate

(P12) and 3rd copy of Petitioner's alleged divorce (P11). The grounds for

dissolution appears to be malicious desertion for a period of 2 years (vide P11).

There is a question of non-registration of the divorce as above which has

caused some difficult to the authorities concerned as well as the Petitioner, 8th

Respondent, and at the inquiry before 6th Respondent, it appears that by 6R2,

(hand written). Sth Respondent takes the responsibility for such a lapse. An

order was made by the 6th Respondent by P13 that the Registrar General

should take steps under Section 13 of the Birth and Deaths Registration Act

I!

t

W

I I I I

1 1

J

4

read with Section 33(17) of the Kandyan Marriage and Divorce Act to re-

register the dissolution of marriage between Piyadasa Serugolla and the

Petitioner and to pay the pension to the 8

th Respondent. This is one of the

main orders challenged inter alia by the Petitioner.

Thereafter and consequently to order P13 the Public Petitions

Committee of Parliament directed the Registrar General to take steps

accordingly and the Registrar General registered the dissolution of marriage by

P15. In the submissions on behalf of the petitioner it was the position that she

would challenge by this application order P13, P15 and P11 (the divorce copy

submitted by 8th Respondent) and P12 (the Marriage Certificate between the

deceased and 8th Respondent). The following legal position are taken on behalf

of the Petitioner.

(a) The Registrar General (and or 3rd & 4th Respondents) has failed to act in

terms of Section 13 of the Birth & Deaths Act. P 15 is as a result of acting

under dictations.

(b) Ombudsman acted without jurisdiction P13 is ultra vires of the

Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration Act No. 17 of 1981.

Recommendation is wrong and Section 33(17) of the Kandyan Marriage and

Divorce Act is not applicable.

(c) Legality of Order P11- P12 depends on legality of P15.

I

I 1 !

I I

I

~ I 1 t J

'J

I 1

1

-""

5

The position of the 8th Respondent who is an effected party is important to

be considered to arrive at a final decision by this court. The 8th Respondent

states that late Piyadasa Serugolla did not meet or have any contact with the

Petitioner during the course of his marriage with the 8th Respondent.

Petitioner did not attend the funeral. Subsequent to the death of P.Serugolia

to whom she was married and in her capacity of a widow applied for the

pension in terms of the Widows & Orphans Pension Fund as amended. 8th

Respondent states necessary documentations were submitted by the

Irrigations Department to Department of Pensions, and the 8th Respondent

was paid a pension until informed by P8. The question that is posed seems to

go round the dissolution of marriage, (P11) which could not be accepted as

proof of such dissolution (4 & P9). This was due to the fact that District

Registrar's Office, Anuradhapura disclosed that office does not possess a

record. As such the 8th Respondent appealed to several authorities and finally

Petitioned the Public Petitioner's Committee of Parliament (8R7), and from

that point referred to the 6th Respondent Ombudsman for investigation and

recommendation (8R8 pg. 43). At the conclusion of investigation Ombudsman

sent recommendation in a report dated 11.8.2010 (8R10 - P13). On receipt of

above the Public Petitions Committee made a decision. (8R11). As such per

(I

6

decision of gR11 the Registrar General and District Registrar have caused the

error/omission to be rectified and dissolution was duly entered in the records

(P1S). I will refer to the numerous points and objections raised by the gth

Respondent against the issue of prerogative writs in favour of the Petitioner.

(a) Application is misconceived and cannot be maintained

(b) Suppression of material facts

(c) Failed to arrange the necessary parties

(d) Application is vitiated by laches

I also need to consider the position of the 6th & ih Respondents. It is

stated inter alia in the objections of these Respondents that:

(1) Secretary to the Public Petitions Committee referred the petition sent by

the gth Respondent for investigation and report to the said committee 6Rl.

(2) During the investigation Sth Respondent submitted a letter admitting the

dissolution of the divorce was recorded in terms of Section 32(e) of the

Kandyan Marriage and Divorce Act, as amended - 6R2.

(3) Compliance made by deceased and Petitioner were submitted 6R3 - "RS.

(4) 6th Respondent made a recommendation as per P13 to the Public Petitions

Committee of Parliament, having considered all evidence.

(S) ih Respondent communicated the decision of the committee to all parties

to the inquiry - 6R6 of 26.10.2010.

(6) Decisions and recommendations of 6th Respondent cannot be challenged.

,II II I

rI,

I

tI

I f i

r

J I I I j 1

\

1 i I

I

7

I have also noted the contents of pleading filed on behalf of 1st, 2nd & 4th

Respondents.

This court had been provided with material to demonstrate that the

Petitioner was married to the deceased Piyadasa Serugoll and after sometime

she left the island for some period of time for employment in Saudi Arabia and

Kuwait. There is also material to the effect that both of them did not get on

well with each other apart from absence from each other for a period of time,

inclusive of police complaints, against each other. Whatever it is a dissolution

of marriage has taken place on the basis of 2 year of malicious desertion on

the part of the Petitioner. Legality of such an order may be in dispute, in the

manner argued by the Petitioner. There is also material of an affairs between

the deceased and 8th Respondent which resulted in a marriage.

It is apparent that the application made to this court by the

Petitioner has been made belatedly. There are several grounds which would

disentitled the remedy of a prerogative writ which are discretionary remedies

of court. Unexplained delay is one such ground which is apparent from the

record. An explanation need to provide cogent reasons. The reasons adduced

by Petitioner does not appear to be adequate in the context of this case. The

non acceptance of the 3rd copy of the dissolution of marriage produced by the

(II

fI

tlI

r•tr

~

8

8th Respondent seems to be the starting point of the entire issue. However all

these had been regularized. A mistake or a lapse of a Government official

should not result in a denial of a right to a litigant. District Registrar's office did

not possess a record of the dissolution of marriage due to a serious mistake or

lapse that occurred in that office. A citizen should not suffer on that account.

As such 8th Respondent in circumstance is entitled to forward a petition or an

appeal to the Public Petitions Committee of Parliament. (8R7) Thereafter the

available machinery was put into operation as provided by statute. The above

committee referred the matter to the 6

th Respondent (Ombudsman.

P13 is the recommendation sent by the 6

th Respondent after an

investigation/inquiry. The material placed before court indicates reports were

called from officials and an investigations done by giving an opportunity for all

concerned to place each others case before the 6

th Respondent. The

recommendation in brief is regarding the non-retention of a record or office

copy of the certificate of dissolution was the result of a mistake/inadvertence

of the 3rd to 5th Respondent and as such it need to be rectified.

The office of the 6th Respondent is established as in article 156(1) of

the Constitution. I would refer to the following Sections of Act No. 17 of 1981.

)1 f I!i \ I

f r i it III(II

t I

9

Section 10(1) of the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration Act No. 17

of 1981 provides as follows:

IIWhere the Committee of Parliament set up to consider petitions

presented by Members of Parliament (hereafter referred to as the IIpublic

Petitions Committee") is of the view that any petition presentd to it by a

Member of Parliament discloses an infringement of a fundamental right or

other injustice by a public officer, or officer of a public corporation, local

authority, or other like institution, it may refer such petition to the

Ombudsman for investigation and report"

Section 10(3) of the said Act, provides as follows:

IIWhere the Ombudsman is of the view that a complaint or allegation

received by him under subsection (1) or subsection (2) discloses an

infringement of a fundamental right or other injustice by a public officer or an

officer of a public corporation, local authority or other like institution, he shall

investigate and report on such complaint or allegation, in accordance with,

and subject to the provisions of this Act, and shall notify the Public Petitions

Committee, of the commencement of such investigations."

Sections 15 and 16 provide for the conduct of investigations by the

Ombudsman and section 17 provides as follows:

10

"(1) Upon the conclusion of his investigation, the Ombudsman shall determine whether

there has been, or is likely to be -

(a) any infringement of a fundamental right; or

(b) any other injustice, including the question as to whether any decision,

recommendation, or omission which was the subject - matter of the investigation -

(i) Was contrary to law;

(ii) Was based wholly or partly on a mistake of fact or of law;

(iii) (iii) was unreasonable, unjust, oppressive or improperly discriminatory or

otherwise wrong;

(iv) Was in accordance with a practice that is, or may be, unreasonable, unjust,

oppressive or improperly discriminatory; or

(v) was made or done in the exercise of a discretion -

A. Which has been exercised for an improper purpose or on irrelevant grounds

or by reference to irrelevant considerations, or by failing to take account of

material considerations; or

B. Without giving reasons although reasons ought in the opinion of the

Ombudsman, to have been given; or

(vi) Was occasioned by unreasonable delay, apathy or indifference

(2) the Ombudsman shall report his determination, together with his reasons therefore

to the head of the institution concerned, and the Minister to whom the department,

public corporation, local authority or other institution concerned has been assigned and

also to the 'Public Petitions Committee.

(3)

(a) In any case where the Ombudsman determines, that there has been or his likely

to be an infringement of a fundamental right or any other injustice, the

Ombudsman may in his report make such recommendations as he thinks fit, and

in such event, may require the head of the institution to notify within a specified

I

~ , ,< \ I I, !

t !! ,

)

I II

f I I

\ II II

J f i

~ i I ! !I ;

11

time, the steps, if any which he proposes to take to give effect to his

recommendations.

(b) without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions of this subsection,

the Ombudsman may recommend that -

(i) the matter be reconsidered;

(ij) the omission be rectified;

(iii) the decision be cancelled or varied;

(iv) the practice on which such decision, recommendation, or omission was

based, be altered;

(v) reasons be given for such decision, recommendation, or omission

(c) If within the time so specified no action is taken which appears to the

Ombudsman to be adequate or appropriate, the Ombudsman shall after

considering the observations, if any, made by the Head of the Institution,

forward a copy of his report to the President and to Parliament. The

Ombudsman shall attach to such report, a copy of the observations, if any, made

by the head of the institution concerned.

(d)lf, within the time so specified, action is taken which appears to the

Ombudsman to be adequate or appropriate, the Ombudsman may forward a

copy of his report to the President and to Parliament together with a statement

of the action taken." (emphasis added)

The aforesaid provisions clearly demonstrate the powers and

jurisdiction of the 6th Respondent. Further there is no doubt that the

legislature intends the 6th Respondent to investigate and report to the

authorities concerned. I am inclined to accept the views of the 8th Respondent

that it is only a recommendation that is required to be made, and the 6

th

i

I '\ I e

12

Respondent does not make any decision. This is in compliance with the

\ statute, and what the 6th Respondent has done is nothing more than to convey

his recommendation to i

h Respondent. The Public Petitions Committee had

adopted the recommendation/report which cannot be termed a decision.

Perusal of document 8Rll adds more support for my views. The Public

Petitions Committee considered the report and recommendation (P13) of the

6th Respondent and made a decision as in 8Rl1. Perusal of 8Rll is very clear

and self explanatory. The decision in 8Rll was carried out and implemented.

As referred to in 8Rll the Registrar General office and the District Registrar's

Office rectified the mistake/omission. As such dissolution of the marriage

between the Petitioner and Piyadasa Serugolla was duly entered in the books

and register. PiS is the dissolution of Marriage Certificate issued having gone

through the process.

A Commissioner appointed under the Commission of Inquiry Act, to

inquire and report is not amendable to certiorari or prohibition. Dias Vs.

Abeywardena (1966) 68 NLR 409. An adverse finding of fact against someone

could not in any way alter the legal rights .... The Commissioner in fact finding

commission and has no legal consequences. 70 NLR 439, 447. 6th Respondent

in the instant case has no power to make a binding determinations. 6

th

t JI I i I!

~ l ! I

\ I,

! ( t Iif r!i I ! I[

!. I! ; ( ,

13

Respondent's reports and recommends the Parliamentary Public Petitions

Committee based on 6th Respondent arrives at a decision. What matters is the

decision of the Public Petitions Committee. Nor was document 8Ri produced

by the Petitioner. I

8Rii is not challenged, which is the actual decision. P13 is no I

decision amenable to the writ jurisdiction of this court. As such on such

recommendations remedy sought in prayer (b) & (c ) has to be rejected.

Petitioner also seeks to challenge PiS. It is the regularized certificate, issued

after 8Rii. It is a ministerial Act and not a decision these became ministerial

Acts after 8Rii. As such prayer (d) to (i) cannot be even be considered in the

manner pleaded in the petition and prayer. The rest of the remedies sought in

the prayer to the petition cannot be granted and has to be rejected. As long as

the decision in 8Rii remains, no other relief could be granted. Petitioner has

not challenged 8Ri1. When I peruse 6Ri to 6R6, the role of the 6th Respondent

could be easily understood. Document 6R2 is ample and sufficient proof of a

lapse/mistake of a public officer. I have also considered and perused all the

documentation placed before court by the 8th Respondent. This enable me to

arrive at a conclusion that a serious lapse of a public officer led to a protracted

14

investigation and inquiry. It is admitted in 6R2. All this could have been

avoided to a great extent.

I have to emphasis that the situation contemplated and relied upon

by the Petitioner under Section 13(1) of the Birth and Deaths Act has no

application. There is no loss or damage or the certificate being illegible. The 3rd

copy of the dissolution of marriage was available. 6R2 confirm a serious lapse,

and an admission of the dissolution of marriage under the relevant statute.

One cannot get confused on such a provision, and facts and circumstances and

the law cannot be considered in isolation. I have considered the entirety of

facts. SRi also state that Piyadasa Serugolla divorced the Petitioner. In the

absence of proof that one could resort to the provision of Section 13 and its

proviso, I reject the argument of the Petitioner on this aspect

In all the above facts and circumstances of this writ application, I hold

that there is no merit in this application. The grounds urged by the Sth

Respondent which disentitle the Petitioner for a prerogative writ are all

satisfied and acceptable to court. As such this application is dismissed without

costs.

Application dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

I

I I I ! I I I

I

t

~ I

t

\ r

! I I ,

1 ! I \