==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C. A 262/96 (F)

D. C. Mount Lavinia, 18/93/RE

B. Munasinghe

No. 21, Parakrama Mawatha,

Kohuwala, Nugegoda

PLAINTIFF

VS

K. A. Karolis Appuhamy

No. 59/7, Mirihana Road,

Mirihana, Nugegoda (Deceased)

K. P. Lucihamy

No. 59/7, Mirihana Road,

Mirihana, Nugegoda

SUBSTITUTED-DEFENDANT

AND

B. Munasinghe

No. 21, Parakrama Mawatha,

Kohuwala, Nugegoda (Deceased)

PLAINTIFF-APPELLANT

1a. Handunge Don Arthur

Clarence Munasinghe

No. 21, Parakrama Mawatha,

Kohuwala, Nugegoda

1b. Roshan Chethiya Munasinghe,

No. 21, Parakrama Mawatha,

Kohuwala, Nugegoda

1c. Shiran Pradeep Munasinghr

No. 57/A, Mirihana Road,

Mirihana, Nugegoda

SUBSTITUTED PLAINTIFF-

APPELLANT

VS

K. A. Karolis Appuhamy

No. 59/7, Mirihana Road,

Mirihana, Nugegoda (Deceased)

K. P. Lucihamy

No. 59/7, Mirihana Road,

Mirihana, Nugegoda

SUBSTITUTED DEFENDANT

Keragala Arachchige Lilian

No. 59/7, Mirihana Road,

Mirihana, Nugegoda

SUBSTITUTED DEFENDANT-

RESPONDENT

BEFORE : M. M. A. GAFFOOR, J. COUNSEL : Gamini Marapana PC with Navin Marapana

and Janani Peiris for the Substitute Plaintiff-Appellant Ranjan Suwandaratne PC with Sunari

Tennakoon for the Substituted Defendant Respondent WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS TENDERED ON : 30.08.2018 (by both parties) DECIDED ON : 12.12.2018

******

M. M. A GAFFOOR, J

This is an appeal against the judgment of the learned District Judge of

Mount Lavinia in respect of evict the tenant (Rent Action) case bearing

Number 18/83/RE.

The Plaintiff – Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant)

instituted this action to evict the Original Defendant, Who was the tenant

from the rented premises on the basis of sub – letting part of the premises

bearing Assessment No. 59/7A to one K. Shelton.

The Appellant stated in his plaint that the Original Defendant became the

tenant under the Appellants premises bearing Assessment No. 59/7 and is

governed by the Provisions of the Rent Act No. 7 of 1972. He further

stated that the Original Defendant has sublet the said premises without his

consent, to said K. Shelton.

The Appellant’s position is that before instituting the District Court action

against the Defendant, he sent notice to quit dated 27.11.1992 (marked as

‘P7’), terminating the tenancy of the Original Defendant.

The Appellant further stated in his Plaint that from 01.01.1993 the

Defendant was in wrong and unlawful occupation of the said premises

causing loss and damages to the Appellant at 200/- per mensem.

Therefore, The Appellant prayed in his Plaint to eject the Original

Defendant and all those holding under the Original Defendant from the

premises bearing Assessment No. 59/7 and 59/7A.

During the pendency of the action the Original Defendant died, and his

wife was named as the substituted Defendant.

On 17.01.1994 the Defendant-Respondent filed her answer stating inter alia

that said K. Shelton is her son who is residing with his parents and he

hasn’t pay any rent to the Original Defendant. She further stated that the

Appellant has not mentioned in the plaint the period from which the

premises have been sublet to the said Shelton and the plaint does not

disclose a cause of action.

At the Trial both parties admitted,

- the premises in question is subject to the provisions of the Rent

Act.

- the receipt of the quit notice is admitted.

- the tenancy between the Appellant and the deceased Original

Defendant is admitted.

- K. Shelton referred to in the plaint is the son of the deceased

Original Defendant.

At the end of the trial the learned District Judge delivered his judgment

dated 10.06.1996 in favour of the Defendant-Respondent.

Being aggrieved by the said judgment, the Appellant appealed to this

Court seeking,

- To set aside the judgment dated 10.06.1996,

- Enter judgment in favour of the Appellant as prayed in the

plaint,

In this appeal, the Appellant’s main argument was that even, the

Appellant had prima facie proved, the learned District Judge entered

judgment against him on the basis subletting was not proved. Therefore,

he further submitted that he proved the fact that the questioned house was

subletted within the meaning of Section 10(1) of the Rent Act No 7 of 1972.

Section 10(1) of the Rent Act No 7 of 1972 reads as follows:

“For the purposes of this Act, any part of any premises shall be

deemed to have been let or sublet to any person if such person is in

occupation of such premises or any part thereof in consideration of

the payment of rent and the provisions of this Act shall not apply to

such letting or subletting unless the landlord has consented in

writing to the letting or subletting of such premises.”

The Appellant’s position is that the questioned house was divided into

two distinct sections bearing Assessment No.59/7 and 59/7 A.

"1986 වැප්තැම්බර් මාවයේ අංක 59/7A, යේ ය඿ල්ටන් පදංචි

යකොටව කියා යලනමම දේලා, යලනමම අංක කර තියබනලා.

එය කලින් 59/7 ම යකොටවේ. එම යකොටව යලන් කර඼ා

පදංචිකරු යේ.ය඾ල්ටන් ශැටියට යපන්ලා තියබනලා."

(Vide page 39 of the appeal brief)

The Municipal document ‘P1’ which was proved at the trial clearly depicts

a plan of the premises in suit. At the trial the municipal officer

Samarakoon stated as follows, (At page 39)

The document marked as P1 was allowed to produce under subject to

prove.

At the trial the Substituted-Defendant-Respondent stated in her evidence

as,

ප්‍ර: පැමිණිල්ල඼න් කියන්ලන් ල඿ල්ටන් ලලන් කර ලෙන තාත්තා ශදා

දුන්න කුව්සියත් වමඟ තමයි ඉන්ලන් කියා?

උ: ඔව්. ල඿ල්ටන් ලලනම සිටියා බැන්දාට පව්ලවේ.

අධිකරණයයන්:-

ප්‍ර: ලලනම කුව්සියක් තිලබනලාද ල඿ල්ටන්ට?

උ: කුව්සියක් නෑ. තශඩු ෙශ඼ා ලලන් කර ලෙන තිලබනලා.

And also the 5th Admission on record states as

"ලමම අලව්ථාලව් දී ලමම නිලලවේ ලකොටවක් අංක 59/7 ඒ

ල඾ලයන් 1990 සිට ලලනම ඒකකයක් ල඾ලයන් තක්ලවේරු කර

ඇති බල පමණක් පිළිෙනී. එම පිළිෙැනීම 5 ලන පිළිෙැනීම

ල඾ලයන් වටශන් කරමි.” (At page 46)

In this case, the Respondent’s position was that more giving an additional

Assessment Number to an existing premises does not itself convert such

premises into two separate houses and the Municipal council even if the

same family members are living in one house and one of the family

members is married and living in a part of the same house under his own

parents still for assessment purposes Municipal Council can assign an

additional number though the said premises is a part of the Original

premises.

The Respondent further argued that, the most important element of sub

letting is that the tenant should sublet an exclusive area of the premises

and thereafter give exclusive control of such area to the sub tenant and

also should recover rent in relation to such area.

The Respondent stand was that the Municipal officer Samarakoon never

ever mentioned such payment of rent by Shelton to his own father and in

the evidence of Respondent clearly explained that her son Shelton is living

throughout in the said premises under her and her late husband (Original

Defendant) had never accepted money from Shelton for his occupation

together with his wife and the children.

And the Respondent further claimed that the Appellant has failed to

identify and point out the exact area where the said Shelton and his family

are in occupation.

In the case of Azhar vs. Fernando (76 NLR 118) it was held that,

“Where, in an action instituted by a landlord to eject his tenant on

the ground that the tenant has sublet a portion of the rented

premises, the landlord’s evidence is sufficient to establish a prima

facie case of subletting, the burden is then on the tenant to furnish

evidence in rebuttal.”

Considering the evidence of the Appellant it is evident that she was not

aware about the sub-letting the questioned house by the Original

Defendant.

‚ කලරෝලිව් අප්පුශාමි කියන්ලන් ල඿ල්ටන් ඔහුලේ පුලතක් බල.

ඔහු කලරෝලිව් අප්පුශාමිට කුලියක් ලෙව්ලව් නැති කියාය. නමුත්

නෙර වභාලලන් කිව්ලා කුලියක් ෙන්නලා කියා ‚. (Page 14)

ප්‍ර: තමාට කියන්න පුළුලන්ද තමා පැ.7 කියන දැන්වීම අනුල

කියා තිලබන්ලන් කලරෝලිව් අප්පුශාමි ල඿ල්ටන් කියා

ලකලනකුට ලේ ලෙය අතුරු කුලියට දී තිලබනලා කියා?

උ: ඒක තමයි මට නෙර වභාලලන් කිව්ලව්.

ප්‍ර: ඒ ශැර තමා පුද්ෙලිකල දන්ලන් නෑ කියන්න ල඿ල්ටන්ට

කුලියට දී තිලබනලා ද නැද්ද කියා?

උ: දන්ලන් නෑ.

Furthermore, the Appellant conceded at page 52 that she decided to

institute action only because there were new assessment number given in

addition to the old number given to the main premises in question.

The evidence given by the Respondent made it clear that there is no basis

at all for the Appellant to institute this action, and under these

circumstances the learned District judge also correctly considered all

matters led in evidence that there is no sub-letting by the Original

Defendant to his son Shelton. Thus, the appellant’s action cannot stand.

Considering all these issues, I see no reason to interfere with the judgment

of the learned District judge.

Therefore appeal dismissed without Costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL