==== BLOCKS ==== 

1 I

· , .

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Hewa Dewage Rathnasiri

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

Vs.

C.A. No. 224/2009

H.C. Balapitiya 702/2004

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

H.C.J. Madawala

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney GeneralIs Department

Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDENT

Indika Mallawarachchi for Accused-Appellant

H.I. Pieris S.S.c. for Complainant-Respondent

22.01.2015

29.01.2015

1

f

t ( i ". 1

I I I ! I

~ I I i 1 I 1 i i i 1 j I I i I I

2

GOONERATNE J.

The Accused-Appellant was indicted for the murder of one I. Deva

Siripala on 04.07.2001. Deceased and the Accused-Appellant were brother-in-

laws. Prosecution version is that according to witness Chandrapala, a person

called Sanipala had arrived and the deceased and Sanipala had perused a 'race

paper'. (<!deS <Bfm)@CO) and thereafter the three of them had been engaged in a

conversation outside a boutique. At that moment (9.30 p.m) the Appellant had

approached the deceased and demanded some money. At that point itself the

Accused-Appellant had dealt a blow on the head of the deceased with his bare

hands. (folios 58/59). Witness had attempted to hold on to the Accused-

Appellant to prevent further assault but Accused-Appellant escaped from his

clutches and had dragged the deceased by his shoulder a distance of 22 feet to

a culvert and dealt several blows and pushed the deceased who fell on the

ground.

The above is the prosecution version and both learned counsel who

appeared in this appeal did not contest the facts and also admitted that no

weapon had been used in the commission of the offence. Learned counsel for

Iir

t; i ! l II I ! , I I I I

~

,

I . " i l 1 1 I 1

3

the Accused-Appellant referred to the fact that there is an absence of a

murderous intention on the part of the Accused-Appellant and invited this

court to consider all the circumstances and the facts relevant to the case on

the basis of culpable homicide not amounting to murder as the act complained

of was done with the knowledge that it is likely to cause death but without any

intention (section 297). Learned counsel also indicated to court that she would

not pursue the other grounds of appeal relating to certain misdirection on the

part of the learned High Court Judge.

Post-mortem report describes cranio-cerebral injuries to be the

cause of death, and injuries are fatal. Further describes that injuries could have

been caused by application of blunt force against the supported head. The

body of the post-mortem report (pg 3 folio 463) describes 9 injuries and

mainly about 5 abrasions. Others are described as laceration and contusions.

We agree that the Appellant did not have the required murderous

intention when he committed the acts described above. Accused committed

the acts suggested with the knowledge that it would be likely to cause death.

No weapon was used by the Accused-Appellant. Material placed before court

indicates that there had been a series of acts prior to the incident involving

f

4

both parties over betting and r acing activities. Certain amount of money may

have been due from the deceased to the Accused party as revealed by

evidence. As such we set aside the finding and conviction of murder and the

sentence of death and substitute a conviction for culpable homicide not

amounting to murder on the basis of knowledge. We impose a term of 10

years rigorous imprisonment and impose a fine of Rs. 10,000/- which carries a

default sentence of 1 years rigorous imprisonment. (Term imprisonment to run

from the date of conviction).

Appeal partly allowed.

H.C.J. Madawala J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

,

I

I

I,;.

f