==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. Appeal No. 108/98(F) DC. Colombo No. 8658/RE

K.A. Somapala No: 1/132, Athurumulla, Delgoda.

Appellant Vs. M. Albert No: 296, Thagalam Street, Colombo 14.

Respondent

C.A.Appeal No. 108/98(F) DC. Colombo No. 8658/RE

Before: K.T.Chitrasiri, J

Counsel: Daya Guruge with Premani Pothupitiya for the Plaintiff-Appellant.

M.I. Hadi for the Defendant-Respondent.

Argued &

Decided on: 08.07.2013

***

Chitrasiri, J

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the judgment dated 15.01.1998 of the

learned District Judge of Colombo. By that judgment, the learned District Judge dismissed the

plaint in which the plaintiff had prayed that he be placed in possession of the land referred to in

Paragraph 5 of the plaint dated 16.05.1996, ejecting the defendant and the persons holding under

him therefrom. In the plaint, he also has claimed damages amounting to Rs. 12375/- from the

defendant for occupying the premises in suit without a payment being made.( issues 5 and 8)

At the outset, Mr. Guruge appearing for the appellant submitted that he is not

pursuing the appeal filed, challenging the answers to the issues bearing Nos. 10 and 18, given on

the basis of the defence taken up by the defendant relying upon the applicability of the

1

provisions contained in the Rent Act No. 7 of 1972 . Therefore, the relief prayed for to eject the

defendant from the premises in suit need not be looked into, since the appeal in order to

U' challenge the decision as to the refusal to evict the defendant, A being not pursued due to the J--

protection claimed by the defendant under the Rent Act. Accordingly, the reliefs prayed for in

para (b) in the prayer to the Petition of Appeal is dismissed.

However the learned counsel for the appellant further submits that the learned

District Judge misdirected himself when he answered the issues bearing Nos. 5 and 8, stating

that those issues need not be answered in view of the answers to the remaining issues. Those 2

issues are on the basis of the damages claimed by the plaintiff from the defendant due to the

occupation of the premises in suit by the defendant. Then it is clear that the appeal is

restricted only to the question of damages amounting to Rs. 12375/- claimed by the plaintiff-

appellant.

Learned counsel for the defendant-respondent having considered the above,

submits that the defendant is willing to pay the said sum of Rs. 12375/-to the plaintiff-

appellant. In view of the said agreement to pay the damages claimed by the plaintiff, the appeal

in respect of the damages claimed by the plaintiff-appellant also need not be considered.

The defendant-respondent agrees to pay Rs. 12375/- by way of a money order to

the plaintiff-appellant within a period of 02 weeks from today. Accordingly, Court makes an r

order that the defendant-respondent shall pay Rs. 12375/- to the plaintiff-appellant by way of a

money order within 2 weeks.

2

The aforesaid agreement by the defendant-respondent to pay the damages to the

plaintiff-appellant should not prejudice the civil rights of the parties.

In view of the above agreement and the submissions of both counsel, the

proceedings in this appeal are terminated.

Proceedings terminated.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Kpm/-

3