==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 124/2009

H.C. Kandy 378/2007

Kona Gedara Podi Mahattaya Ihalagama, Weliwathura Gedara, Pussallawa.

Appellant

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General Atton1ey General's Department Colombo 12.

Respondent

CA 124/2009 H.C. Kandy Case No. HC 378/2007

BEFORE : Sisira de Abrew, J. &

P. W.D.C. Jayathilake, J.

COUNSEL : SSC Dileepa Peiris for the Appellant.

Udaya Bandara for the accused-respondent.

ARGUED&

DECIDED ON : 04.04.2013.

****

Sisira de Abrew, J.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases. The

accused-respondent in this case was convicted on his own plea of the

offence of grave sexual abuse and was sentenced to a term of two

years rigorous imprisonment suspended for five years, to pay a fine

of Rs. 3000/- carrying a default sentence of three months simple

imprisonment and to pay a sum of Rs. 100,000/- to the victim as

compensation carrying a default sentence of two years simple

1

imprisonment. Being aggrieved by the said sentence, the Attorney

General has appealed to this court. Learned Senior State Counsel

submits that the sentence imposed by the learned High Court Judge

is inadequate in view of the offence that the accused has committed.

Learned Prosecuting State Counsel in the trial court, submitted that

the victim, at the time offence, was, under I 0 years of age. The

accused ,at the time of the offence, was a 65 year old man.

Learned Counsel appearing for the accused-respondent submits that

at the time of sentencing by the learned High Court Judge the

accused was a 70 year old man. We note from the proceedings in the

High Court that, at the time of the offence, the accused was a 65

year old man and at the time of sentencing he was 70 a year old

man. Learned Counsel who appeared for the accused-respondent at

the trial has submitted that the accused did not have any previous

convictions.

When we consider the submissions made by both parties at the trial

court and the submissions made by both counsel in this court we

note that at the time of the offence the victim was below I 0 years of

2

age. We also consider the fact that accused, without wasting time of

Court, has pleaded guilty to the offence. But in our view, the

sentence imposed by the learned High Court judge is inadequate. We

therefore set aside the sentence of imprisonment imposed by the

learned High Court Judge and impose two years rigorous

imprisonment. The fine and the amount of compensation ordered by

the learned High Court Judge remain unaltered. Learned High Court

Judge of Kandy is directed to issue a fresh committal when the

accused is produced before the High Court.

Sentence altered.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

NR/-

3