==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

1

&

1

242/2013

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an appeal against the

Order of the High Court under section

331 of the Code of Criminal Procedure

Act No.5 of 1979 as amended.

1.Alvitigalage Don Dinesh Nimantha

2.Ravi Murugesh Ananda

Accused-Appellants

C.A.Case NO:-242/2013

H.C.Colombo Case No:-4862/2009

v.

Before:- H.N.J.Perera,J. &

K.K. Wickremasinghe,J.

The Attorney General

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 1.

Respondent

Counsel:-Dr.Ranjith Fernando for the Accused-Appellants

Sarath Jayamanne A.S.G for the Respondent

\

\

j I

J

1

I

Argued On:-18.05.2015/03.06.2015

Written Submissions:-29.06.2015

Decided On:-07.08.2015

H.N.J.Perera,J.

The accused-appellants with two others were indicted in the High Court of Colombo under section 54 A(d) & 54 A(b) of the Poisons Opium and

Dangerous Drugs Ordinance as amended by Act No13 of 1984 for being in possession and trafficking less than 1 gm heroin on or about

27.06.2006 at Wadullawatta. The Learned High Court Judge by his judgment dated 22.01.2013 found the pt and 2nd accused-appellants

guilty as charged and sentenced them on both counts to 7 years R.I. with a fine of Rs.50,OOO/- and further ordered that the sentences to run consecutively. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and sentence the accused-appellants have preferred this appeal to this court.

At the commencement of the trial, the 3rd and 4th accused had pleaded

guilty to the said two charges and each had been sentenced to 1 year R.t with a fine of Rs.15,OOO/- on each count.

When this matter was taken up for argument before this court, the Counsel for the accused-appellants stated to court that he will confine

this appeal to the sentence imposed on the accused-appellants.

The main contention of the Counsel for the accused-appellant was that there is a serious disparity on the sentence imposed on the 3rd and 4th accused who had pleaded guilty to the said charges at the beginning of the trial and the sentence that had been imposed on the pt and 2nd

accused-appellant who has been convicted after trial and that consecutive sentences being imposed notwithstanding the fact that the

J I

two offences were "inextricably linked" committed at the same set of facts / same occasion in the course of same transaction.

The submission made by the Counsel for the accused-appellants to the effect that the 3rd and 4th accused had been given non-custodial sentences with minimum fine is not correct. The 3rd and 4th accused had

been sentenced to 1 year R.1. The said sentence has not been suspended

by court. Further there is no order made by the court directing that the said sentences to run concurrently. It is very clear from the proceedings that the court had acted on the basis that the said accused had no previous convictions.

I have carefully considered the submissions of the learned Counsel regarding the sentence.

Basnayake A.C.J in the case of Attorney General V. H.N.De Silva 57 N.L.R

121 observed as follows:-

"A Judge should, in determining the proper sentence, first consider the gravity of the offence as it appears from the nature of the act itself and

should have regard to the punishment provided in the Penal Code or

other statute under which the offender is charged. He also should also regard the effect of the punishment as a deterrent and consider to what

extent it will be effective."

The law stipulates that for possession or for trafficking of not exceeding

1 gramme of heroin a fine not less than fifteen thousand rupees and not exceeding fifty thousand rupees and or imprisonment of either description for a period not less than 3 years and not exceeding seven

years.

In the instant case the learned trial Judge had sentenced the pt and 2nd

accused-appellants to seven years R.I with a fine of Rs.50,OOO/-and 8 months R.I in lieu of the fine on both counts and had further ordered

I

that the said sentences be implemented consecutively. The learned trial

Judge had proceeded to impose the maximum sentence under each

count.

Although the quantity of heroin had been less than 1 gram, considering the attendant and extenuating circumstances, the trial Judge had decided to impose this sentence. The evidence led in this case indicates that the police had recovered 20 packets containing 600 m. gram of

heroin and also 80 Aluminium foils from the possession of the accused-

appellants. The learned High Court Judge had also taken into account the

fact that the 2nd accused-appellant had previous convictions, the circumstances under which the offence was committed, and the gravity of the offence committed by the accused-appellants.

In the instant case the 2nd accused-appellant who was found guilty of the charges had three previous convictions. The learned trial Judge had proceeded to sentence him to 7 years R.I. and also had imposed a fine of

Rs.50,OOO/-. The learned trial Judge had imposed the maximum punishment that he can impose on the said accused-appellant. It is quite

clear that the learned trial Judge had been influenced by the fact that the

2nd accused-appellant had three previous convictions and by the seriousness of the crime committed and the harm it could have caused to the society as a whole. The Judge had imposed a sentence that he could have imposed on the 2nd accused-appellant and also had given

good reasons for doing so. One cannot argue that the learned trial Judge

had exceeded his powers by doing so. In my view the learned trial Judge

had exercised his discretion wisely. The sentence of the trial Judge therefore had been fair and just and not excessive. There is no illegality

in the sentence imposed and the fine ordered. Therefore we see no reason to interfere with the sentence imposed on the 2nd accused-appellant by the learned High Court Judge.

In Rajive V. State of Rajastan [1996] 2 see 175 it was held that the court

will be failing in its duty if appropriate punishment is not awarded for a

crime which has been committed not only against the individual victim

but against the society to which the criminal and victim belong.

The pt accused-appellant does not have any previous convictions. Yet

the learned trial Judge had proceeded to impose the same sentence on

him too. It could be argued that the trial Judge had failed to exercise his

judicial discretion fairly in passing sentence on the pt accused-appellant.

Therefore after considering all the above circumstances we set aside the sentence imposed by the learned High court Judge on the pt accused-

appellant and sentence the pt accused-appellant to a term of 3 years R.I

and to a fine of Rs.15,OOO/- on each count. We also impose a 6 months

R.1. in lieu of the said fine on each count. We also direct the sentences to

run consecutively. Subject to the variation in the sentence of the pt

accused-appellant the appeal is dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

K.K.Wickremasinghe, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL