==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA (PHC) 282/2005 PHC-GALLE-REV-309/2003

Wimalasena Bopage No: 212/2, Mahamodara, Galle.

Respondent - Appellant Vs. B. Gunawathi Kularathne No: 218/01, Mahamodara, Galle. And Others

Petitioner - Respondent

CA (PHC) 282/2005 PHC-GALLE-REV-309/2003

Before K.T. Chitrasiri, J. &

W.M.M. Malinie Gunarathne, J.

Counsel Parties are absent and unrepresented

Decided on 13.10.2014

K.T. Chitrasiri, J.

The Registrar of this court has sent notices to the parties directing them to be present in this court today. Said notices have been sent under the registered cover to the

addresses given in the petition of appeal. Those three

notices had been returned with the endorsement that the parties have left their addresses given in those notices.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the orders made in

respect of an obstruction made to the right of way used by the

2nd appellant.

This being an application made under Section 66 of the Primary

Court Procedure Act No. 44 of 1979, learned Magistrate has

held that the Appellant has obstructed the right of way of the

1 st party Respondent.

Learned High Court Judge having considered the matters

relevant to the issue has made order removing the said

obstruction found on the right of way.

The High Court Judge has made an order removing the

obstruction since the learned Magistrate has not made specific

order for the removal of the obstruction.

1

! Ii I, , I I f

+

We have carefully considered the two orders

learned two judges. They have considered the

made by the

facts of the

case and have implemented the law referred to in Section 69(2)

of the Primary Court Procedure Act. We do not see any error

on the part of the learned High Court Judge in deciding so.

In the circumstances, we are not inclined to interfere with

the decision of the learned High Court Judge. Accordingly,

this appeal is dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M. Malinie Gunarathne, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

LA/-

2