==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

C.A. Application No.336/2012

In the matter of an application for

Mandates in the nature of Writs of

Certiorari and Prohibition under Article

140 of the Constitution of the

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

Lanka.

Ceylon Tobacco Company PLC

No.178, Srimath Ramanathan Mawatha

Colombo 15.

Petitioner

Vs.

1. Hon. Maithripala Sirisena

Minister of Health

Ministry of Health

"Suwasiripaya"

Colombo 10.

2. Dr. Nihal Jayathilaka

Secretary

Ministry of Health

"Suwasiripaya"

Colombo 10.

3. National Authority on Tobacco and

Alcohol

"Suwasiripaya"

BEFORE

COUNSEL

2

385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa

Thero Mawatha

Colombo 10.

Respondents

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

Romesh de Silva PC with Harsha Amarasekera PC, Shanaka

Amarasinghe and Ms Dilumi de Alvis,

for the Petitioner,

Arjuna Obeysekera DSG with Suranga Wimalasena,

for the Respondents

Supported interim order on 20.02.2013

Order on 22.02.2013

S.Sriskandarajah, J,

The Petitioner is a company incorporated in Sri Lanka and carries on the

business of manufacturing, exporting and selling of cigarettes of different brands. The

Petitioner submitted, the cigarette industry of Sri Lanka is currently regulated by the

Direction No.100, published in Gazette Extraordinary No.969/6 dated 31st of March

1997, issued under Section 6(1)© of the then Consumer Protection Act No.1 of 1979,

which continues in force under the said provisions in the consumer affairs Authority

Act No.9 of 2003, and the cigarette industry is also now regulated by the National

Authority of Tobacco and Alcohol Act No.27 of 2006. The petitioner in this application

is challenging, by way of a Writ of Certiorari, to quash the tobacco products (labeling

and packing) Regulation No.1 of 2012, published by the 1st Respondent in the

Government Gazette Extraordinary No.1770/15 dated 8th August 2012.

The Petitioner is also seeking in this application an interim order staying the

operation of the aforesaid regulation No.1 of 2012, pending the hearing and final

3

determination of this application. This order is in relation to the interim relief sought

by the Petitioner.

The Petitioner submitted that the said regulation is ultra vires to the provisions

of Section 34 of the National Authority on Tobacco and Alcohol Act. The Petitioner

contended that the Minister, under Section 34(1) has the power and authority to publish

regulations which prescribes the dimensions of labels to be included on a tobacco pack

containing a statement of the tar and nicotine contained in each tobacco product, and

such health warnings prescribed by regulations. It is the contention of the Petitioner

that the Minister's powers are limited to this section and he cannot introduce

regulations that go beyond the scope of the provisions of the said section. It is the

contention of the Petitioner that the said section only provides for health warnings to be

written, printed or typographical and it has not provided for pictorial health warnings.

Regulation No.1 of 2012, which was published on the 8th of August 2012, has made

specific reference to pictorial health warnings that are to be embodied in the packet,

package, carton or label. The learned Counsel for the Respondent submitted, the words

used in the said section "such health warning, as may be prescribed, could include

pictorial warnings as well."

The Petitioner also contended that it is impossible to print the relevant contents

and emissions contained in cigarettes, including nicotine, tar, formaldehyde and other

toxic contents. It is the contention of the Petitioner that tobacco smoke is a complex

mixture of over 5600 identified chemicals of which, at least 150 are reported to be toxic

or potentially toxic. Therefore, it is not possible to define a definite list of tobacco and

tobacco smoke components that have been identified as toxics, for the Petitioner to print

relevant information in the package or carton containing cigarette, as required by the

said regulation.

i I

!

~Il!!

!

!!I

I

~ IIt tt

~ ft

I l

fII I' ! l! IIIl

{ I {

] l l I l

1 I

4

The Petitioner also contended that printing pictorial health warning to cover not

less than 80% of the total area of the packet is also an impossible task that the Petitioner

or any manufacturer to comply with.

In reply, the learned D.S.G. submitted that the clarification to Regulation No.1 of

2012 was published in the Government Gazette Extraordinary No.1797 /22, published

on the 15th of February 2013, and the said Gazette has specifically provided for the

pictorial warning to cover not less than 80% of the total area of a pack, package or

carton, is now amended and the present position is that the pictorial warning shall be

printed on the top surface area of both front and back side of every cigarette pack,

package or carton containing cigarette, and shall cover an area of not less than 80% of

the top surface area of both front and back side of every cigarette pack, package or

carton. The submission of the D.S.G is that the above clarification has made it clear that

the pictorial warning could be practically printed in the pack, package or a carton

containing cigarettes, and it is not an impossibility. The learned D.S.G. also submitted

that the amended regulation has made it clear that the toxic element that has to be

printed and exhibited in the said pack, package or carton is only the nicotine and tar

that is contained in each tobacco product, and it need not include the whole list of toxic

element that could be identified in a tobacco product. Therefore, he submitted that

printing of such information in a cigarette pack, package or carton is not impossible

and, the submission of the learned President's Counsel for the Petitioner that complying

with Regulation No.1 of 2012 is impossible, has no merit.

As I have observed above, the case has to be argued on its merit but, at this stage,

this Court is only considering the issue of an interim order, as prayed for in the Petition.

It is settled law that a stay order is an incidental measure pending disposal of the main

matter before the Court. In Billimoria Vs. Minister of Land and Land Development and

Mahaweli Development and two others, (1978- 1979- 1980), 1 Sri LR page 11, the Supreme

Court observed that the Court had to decide whether writ could issue or not, and this

could not be decided without notice being first issued on the respondents affording

1

f

J•!Il

I j 1 I I { I I

5

them an opportunity of being heard. All this would have taken considerable time. The

interests of justice, therefore, require that a stay order be made as an interim measure.

It would not be correct to judge such orders in the same strict manner as a final order.

The interim orders, by their very nature, must depend a great deal on a Judge's opinion

as to the necessity for interim action. In Duwaratchi and Another Vs. Vincent and Others

(1984) 2 Sri L.R. page 94, the Court laid down the principles on which an interim order

could be issued. It held, an interim stay order in a writ application is an incidental

order made in the exercise of the inherent or implied power of the Court. The Court

should be guided by the following principles:-

1) Will a final order be rendered nugatory if the Petitioner is successful?;

2) Where does the balance of convenience lie?

3) Will irreparable or irremediable mischief or injury be caused to either party?

The ratio of the judgment in Bilimoria Vs. Minister of Land, Land Development and

Mahaweli Development and 2 others and Duwaratclzi Vs. Vincent Perera is that in

considering the question of interim order the Court must bear in mind that an

interim order is made in the exercise of inherent or implied power of court, in

circumstances where the final order is, if the Petitioner is successful, be rendered

nugatory and the aggrieved party will be left holding a decree worthless for all

purpose. In the light of the above principle, if one considers the interim order

sought in this application, the interim order is to stay the operation of the Tobacco

Products (Labeling and Packing) Regulation No.1 of 2012 which was published on

the 8th of August 2012. This Regulation has laid down certain guidelines that have

to be followed by the manufacturers of tobacco products, viz., to display labels

which contain pictorial warnings that are prescribed in the said Gazette Notification.

The Petitioner's contention is that those requirements published in the Gazette are

ultra vires to the provisions of the National Authority on Tobacco and Alcohol Act.

If that is the contention of the Petitioner and if the Petitioner satisfies this Court at

the argument stage and if the Court holds with the Petitioner, then the regulations

' I

Ff !

rf I ti IIIi

i I

f t It t III

6

will be quashed by a Writ of Certiorari. In that event the Petitioner need not follow

the said regulations any further, so that non-issuance of an interim order in the

given circumstances will not affect the Petitioner's ultimate remedy, and the Court's

final order will not be rendered nugatory. Until such an order is made, the

Petitioner could comply with the regulations that are published under the said law.

The only other argument put forward by the Petitioner is that it is impossible for

the Petitioner to comply with the requirements of the said regulation. Firstly, the

Petitioner submitted that there is insufficient time for them to comply with the said

regulation. In fact, the regulation was published on the 8th of August 2012, and the

Petitioner was aware of its application from that date, and the said regulation will

only be coming into operation on the 1st of March 2013. In those circumstances the

Petitioner cannot claim that the Petitioner was not given adequate notice for the

Petitioner to comply with the said regulation. Further, the Petitioner complains that

certain requirements made in the said regulation cannot be fulfilled by the Petitioner

due to lack of clarity, in particular, the 80% space that has to be covered in the

package and the toxic contents that has to be included in the package. These matters

have been clarified by the Minister, the 1st Respondent, by publishing an amended

regulation, the said amended regulation was also published by Gazette notification

dated 15th February 2013. This amended regulation facilitated the Petitioner and

answers his concern in relation to the impossibility of complying with the said

regulation and, in those circumstances this Court is of the view that the balance of

convenience does not lie in favour of the Petitioner and there is no material to show

that irreparable or irremediable mischief that would be caused to the Petitioner if an

interim order is not issued in the given circumstances. Therefore, this Court refuses

to issue an interim order, as prayed for, by the Petitioner in this Application.

President of the Court of Appeal

II I

! tfIIiIi l it

f [ I•

f-(

~ I I

f t