==== BLOCKS ==== 

94/13

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A.Case No:- 94/2013

H.C.Matara Case NO:-69/2007

In the matter of an appeal against the

Order of the High Court under sec.331

Of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act

NO.15 of 1979 as amended.

H.M.Sujith Kithsiri

Accused-Appellant

v.

The Hon. Attorney General,

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

Respondent

Before:- H.N.J.Perera, J &

K.K.Wickremasinghe, J.

Counsel:- Dr.Ranjith Fernando for the Accused-Appellant

Rohantha Abeysuriya D.S.G.for the Respondent

Argued On:-17.03.2015

Written Submissions:-06.05.2015

1

Decided On:-19.06.2015

H.N.J.Perera, J.

The accused-appellant was indicted before the High Court of Matara for committing robbery of cash Rs.75,OOO/-and cigarettes valued at Rs. 14,560/-from the possession of Munidasa Thabrew on or about the 14th January 2003 with unknown persons whilst being armed, an offence

punishable under section 383 read with section 32 of the Penal Code.

After trial the learned High Court Judge by his judgment dated 25th June 2013 convicted the accused-appellant and sentenced him to a term of 10 years R.I. A fine of Rs.l0,OOO/- and in lieu 6 months R.I. Aggrieved by the

said conviction and sentence the accused-appellant had preferred this appeal to this court.

The main contention of the Counsel for the accused-appellant was that

the learned trial Judge erred in law by concluding that the identification of the accused-appellant was established beyond reasonable ground on laid down legal criteria.

According to the prosecution this robbery had taken place at a road side

boutique around 7.00 p.m on the 14th of January which was a Thaipongal

day. The boutique owner witness No. 1 Thabrew, his uncle and

employees Thilak and Sarath together with several customers and witness No.4 Ariyawansha had been present at that time. Three persons

had arrived on a motor bike. The bike was parked outside the boutique and one had pushed the customers inside and had stood guard outside

whilst another robbed the cashiers till and cigarettes. Thereafter all had left. One of them had shot into the air when leaving. According to the prosecution witnesses the whole incident had taken only 5 to 10 minutes.

2

Two months later the accused-appellant had been arrested and

Identification Parade held on 2pt March, 2003. Witness Nol Thabrew

and witness No.4 Ariyawansha had participated at the Parade where the accused-appellant had been identified.

The witness Thabrew whilst giving evidence in court had admitted the fact that prior to the holding of the Identification Parade in courts on 2pt

March 2003, the accused-appellant was seen by him at the Hiniduma police station. Therefore the learned trial Judge had quite correctly

disregarded the evidence of the said witness regarding the identity of the

accused-appellant. But the learned trial Judge had carefully considered the evidence led in this case and had held that the witness Ariyawansha

had sufficient time and light to identify the accused-appellant. The learned trial Judge state's that even if the Identification Parade evidence of the accused-appellant is not considered with regard to the

identification by witness Thabrew, the charges however have been proved.

It is the contention of the Counsel for the accused-appellant that the

learned trial Judge appears to have misdirected himself regarding the

infirmity relating to the identification of accused-appellant by witness Ariyawansha and also his failure to make a positive dock identification, and whether it was safe to act on the identification, and whether it was

safe to act on the Parade notes relating to witness Ariyawansha which is not substantive evidence and also considering that witness Thabrew had been shown to the accused-appellant. It was the contention of the Counsel for the Respondent that there was positive evidence not only with regard to the identification if the accused-appellant but also clear

evidence as to the means of identification established by the

prosecution.

3

In the present case witness Amerawansha did identify the accused-

appellant at the parade and in court. On being asked whether he could identify the person who had a knife in his hand and who took money

from the cashier's till. Amerawansha first said, in his evidence that he

was not certain and the accused looked fat now but proceeded to identify the accused-appellant immediately thereafter. Counsel for accused-appellant contented that in view of the above evidence

Amerawansha's evidence could not be accepted beyond reasonable doubt and that the learned trial Judge should not have acted on this

evidence. In reply, the learned D.S.G contended that the evidence of this witness should be considered in wider context by leaving a reasonable allowance to a possible fade of memory when testifying 11 years after

the incident.

The learned Counsel for the accused-appellant further submitted that it

is not safe to act on the Identification Parade notes relating to witness

Amerawansha which is not substantive evidence.

In Regina V. Obsourue QB 678, both witnesses attended the parades and

identified the defendants. In her evidence witness Mrs.Brooks said that "she did not remember that she had picked out anyone on the last parade." The other witness Mrs. Head said in the witness box that "the man I picked out, I don't think he is in the dock today." Despite the

defence objection the Officer-in Charge of both parades, was permitted to testify and establish the fact that both witnesses identified the

defendants at the parade. Court of Appeal held that, "the evidence of the Officer-in-Charge of the Identification parade was admissible, for it

did not contradict women's evidence it was of identification other than identification in the witness box, and prosecution was seeking only to establish the fact of identification at the parade." Even though both

witnesses failed to identify the defendants in court, the identification of the defendants at the parade by two witnesses were admitted in

4

evidence. In that case, there was no identification of the accused persons

in court, but the Court of Appeal of England affirmed the convictions.

In the instant case the witness Amerawansha had identified the accused-

appellant in the witness box after about 11 years. There is also an admission recorded in court on 18.06.2012 under section 320 of the Criminal Procedure Code that the said parades were properly held. And

the prosecution had led further evidence to prove that the said witness Amerawansha identified the accused-appellant at the said parade held on 2pt March 2003.

In Perera V. The State 77 N.L.R. 224 eleven prison officers of the

Welikada prison were suspects in the commission of the offence of

causing the death of a prisoner. An identification parade was held with 54 prison officers and 23 persons from the public. Before the three

identifying witnesses were questioned, they were reminded by the Magistrate of the contents of the statements made by them. It was held

that, 53 prison officers in the parade and only 23 persons from the public, the parade was not properly constituted. It was further held that:-

(l)That the magistrate should have held several parades in conformity

with the practice followed in similar circumstances; (2)To have asked the particular witnesses to identify any suspect if he

was in the parade; (3)lf a witness pointed out any person , then only should the

Magistrate have asked the witness whether that accused whom he pointed out did anything, and

(4)lf so, details of what he did.

In that case the court was of the view that the Magistrate used the statement made by various witnesses to him and ask them to point out the various persons who did various acts, he was in effect refreshing the

memory of those witnesses. The court held that the procedure adopted

5

by the Magistrate was unfair by the accused-appellants who were tried for murder.

But in the instant case the Magistrate had simply asked the witnesses to

point out and identify any person who participated at the robbery and to state as to what he did. The said witness Amerawansha had pointed

out the accused and stated that he is the person who cut the phone wires and took the cash from the cashier's till and who sent him towards the

weighing scale left after firing a gun shot towards the sky.

In the instant case the evidence clearly shows that on the date of the incident took place the owner of the boutique conducted business as usual. The evidence led in this case clearly indicate apart from the two

witnesses who gave evidence in this case that there were several other customers who had come to do business in the said boutique. The

evidence indicate that the said witness Thabrew had enough light to conduct business with his customers and he would not have conducted business in the dark and that he and the other witness Amerawansha had ample light and time to recognize the accused-appellant. The

identification parade had been held after four months and the witness

Amerawansha had clearly identified the accused-appellant as the person who cut the telephone wires and who took money from the cashier's till and as the person who sent him towards the weighing scale and fled

after firing a gun shot in to the air.

Our law does not require the prosecution to call a number of witnesses to prove a case against an accused. Evidence given by one witness is

sufficient. It is the quality of the evidence given by the said witness that matters. Thus the court could have acted on the evidence of the witness

Amerawansha provided the trial Judge was convinced that he was giving

cogent, inspiring and truthful testimony in court. The learned trial Judge had considered the entirety of the evidence that has been led before him

6

and has carefully considered whether the two omissions marked were

material and had held that they are too trivial to effect the credibility of

the witness Amerawansha's evidence.

In King V. Musthapha Lebbe 44 N.L.R 505 Court of Criminal Appeal held that:-

liThe court of Criminal Appeal will not interfere with the verdict of a Jury

unless it has a real doubt as to the guilt of the accused or is of the opinion

that on the whole it is safer that the conviction should not be allowed to

stand."

For the above reasons, I refuse to interfere with the judgment of the

learned trial Judge and affirm the conviction and the sentence. I dismiss

the appeal.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

K.K.Wickremasinghe, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

7