==== BLOCKS ==== 

. .

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of a petition of appeal in

terms of section 331 (1) of the Code of

Criminal Procedure Act No 15 of 1979

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

lanka.

High Court (Kegalle) Attorney General,

Case No: 2577/07 Attorney General's Department,

C.A. Case No:15/2012 Colombo 12.

Complainant

Batagoda Gallage Dona Dharmarathna

Manike

Accused

1

\

AND

Batagoda Gallage Dona Dharmarathna

Manike alias Batagoda Nahallage Dona I

<!,

Dharmarathna Manike j i , I ! 1 iI No. 26, !,i \

, t I

\ I Dinidugama, l I

\I

Paragammana,

I

Kegalle. l I\ Accused Appellant ! i i ! I

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General, ll I

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

1iRespondent I

2

I 1

BEFORE H.N.J. PERERA, J

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J

COUNSEL Dr. Ranjith Fernando with

Samanthi Rajapakshe for the

Accused Appellant.

S. Wijesinghe DSG for the

Respondent.

ARGUED ON 28.02.2014

DECIDED ON 12.03.2015

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J

Watagoda Gallage Dona Dharmaratna Menike, the Accused Appellant has been

convicted for committing the murder of Rajapaksalage Prasanna Rajapaksa on

the 07th of February 2006 and sentenced to death. Being aggrieved with the

3

III!!

I!

1I

!I

rI

i

. .

said conviction and the sentence, the Accused Appellant has submitted this

appeal in this court.

The Accused Appellant was a married woman with two children, 18 year girl

and 15 year boy by 07.02.2006. They were residing at Gurudeniya in Kegalla.

They had their old house as well as the new house situated adjoin. They were

residing in the new house. Since the new house didn't have a lavatory they

used the lavatory of the old house. On this particular day only the Accused

Appellant and her two children were at home. As the Accused Appellant

wanted to go to the toilet at about 9.30 p.m, she went to the old house asking

the daughter to keep the door closed of the new house. While she was walking

through the kitchen, the person called Sampath who was hiding there

embraced her. Sam path covered her mouth with his hand and told her not to

shout. Then she had thought that Sam path would harass her daughter. Just

then, she had remembered that there was some acid in the kitchen. She had

somehow escaped after struggling, poured acid into a saucepan and thrown it

turning back. She had done so for the sake of safety. She too had got injured

on her eyes, mouth, hands, legs and lips.

This is the version of the defence made by the Accused Appellant at the High

Court trial.

4

IIi Ii I !

J

1

sampath alias Prasantha Rajapaksa was 34 years by 07.02.2006. He was

unmarried and one in the family of 3 brothers. He was engaged in firewood

business in estates as a contractor. On the day of the incident, sampath

returned home after work at about 6.30 p.m and again went away and

returned home at about 8.30 p.m. Then, he had gone to the Accused

Appellant's place without the knowledge of his home people. Around 9.30 p.m.

he had come home shouting I( Amme, Amme ... " and said to his mother that the

aunty, uncle Piyasena's wife was telling him to go away, and did this. The

mother of sampath noticed that there was smoke from the wet shirt and the

face which had been turned red. Chandana, a cousin brother of sampath,

Wasantha, the younger brother of Sam path and another relative called

Tharanga took sampath to hospital in a three wheeler. There was a bad smell

from sampath. On their way to hospital, sampath related what had happened

to him says Chandana. Deceased had told Chandana that he had gone to

Accused Appellant's house at about 9.30p.m as she had told him to come

there. He had met her at the old house and she had scolded him saying that

she couldn't go into the public as she had been condemned all over.

Thereafter, she had flung acid at him.

The above is the evidence of Chandana and sampath's mother. The injuries

referred to in the post mortem report are as follows. Burns on face, neck,

5

\ I

chest, forearms, penis and legs. About 20% of the body surface involved. The

cause of death was the multi organ failure following corresponding burns.

The deceased had made a statement to the police when he was under

treatment at the National Hospital in Colombo five days after the incident. He

has stated the following facts in the said statement.

The deceased was unmarried and had a illicit love affair with the Accused

Appellant. When her husband, who was a mazon, was away from home, he

used to go there on her request. He stopped this connection with her consent

as the relations and friends advised him. Thereafter, he came to know that she

had started another affair with another person in the village. He had told the

people in that village about it. On the day of the incident, the Accused

Appellant requested the deceased to come to her place saying that the

husband was not at home. When he went to her place she scolded him asking

him why her character was being condemned. Thereafter, she invited him to

their old house. later, she opened the door of that house and threw at him

something like water holding a utensil like a saucepan by both hands. The

deceased has further stated in his statement that he thought that the Accused

Appellant did this due to her anger caused by the fact that he had told the

villagers about her other affair.

6

I ,

! I I

I I j

1 , I

1 1 1 i I I I I i 1 I t

The ground of appeal raised by the learned counsel for the Accused Appellant

was that the failure of the learned trial judge to consider lesser culpability and

the exception of private defence in the teeth of the evidence led by both

prosecution and defence. The learned counsel emphasized that it has been

erroneously concluded that the Accused Appellant had preplanned the

incident and that the defence version improbable.

The learned Deputy Solicitor General who appeared for the Attorney General

contended that if the Accused Appellant had wanted to escape from the

deceased, the Accused Appellant would have cried for help. He argues as the

Accused Appellant had stated that she had a torch with her, she could have

assaulted the deceased with that exercising her private defence.

However, if the deceased had been in an uncontrollable state, until she could

found the bottle of acid, opened it, poured the acid into an utensil and thrown

acid at him how did the deceased wait passively without attempting to prevent

it? On the other hand if the throwing of acid by the Accused Appellant was a

preplanned one, the question arising is why acid had not been poured into the

saucepan in advance.

In the opinion of the deceased, the cause of the incident was his spreading of

scandals about the Accused Appellant.

7

I I I I !

I I

I

According to the above facts, there are a few questions arising to which this

court needs to work out answers, namely,

(i) Whether the Accused Appellant wanted to teach a lesson to the

person who tarnished her character.

(ii) If it was so, whether she wanted to kill him.

(iii) However, at the time of the incident whether she acted with the

knowledge that the deceased would die from her act.

In answering these questions what this court could apply is the evidence

available with regard to the previous conduct and the subsequent conduct of

the Accused Appellant. The Accused Appellant may not have come out with

the whole truth in her evidence, but she has accepted the fact that she threw

acid at the deceased. She too had received injuries as she had not taken any

precautions for her protection. Wasantha says that the Accused Appellant

called him while he was sleeping in his house and said she threw acid at the

deceased and he was lying there, go and see. Any prudent man would not

accept that this series of her acts are acts performed by a person having the

intention of killing another. She may have acted on cumulative provocation,

still for all, it cannot be counted as sudden provocation. But the question here

is that whether the Accused Appellant had the knowledge that her act would

8

,

!

fi

fI

\

i 1 J I .

I I J

\

j

I I l I I I

definitely lead to the death of this person. It is evident that the Accused

Appellant who was a mother of a teenager girl, had been under outrage due to

the feeling that the act of the deceased detrimanted herself respect. Therefore

under those circumstances, the answer of this court to the 3rd question raised

above is that the Accused Appellant had no knowledge that her act would

result definitely in the death of the deceased.

The doctor states that the acid burns, of the deceased had been affected by

germs and it was the influence of germs on burns damaged the internal organs

of the deceased and this condition had caused his death. The learned trial

judge in her judgment has stated that medical evidence does not clearly says

that these injuries necessarily cause death or they cause death in the ordinary

course of nature. However, she had acted on an opinion expressed in a

decided case, namely, Chandrasena alias Rale Vs A.~ that the opinion of the

medical officer is only a guidance for the judge and arriving at the judgment of

the judge shall not be vested on the medical officer. The learned judge has

further followed an Indian decision, namely, Sudarshan Kumar Vs state 0/

Deihl in which the Indian Supreme Court has decided, as the injuries caused

1. (2008) 2 SlR 255

2. AIR 1974 SC V0161 page 2328

9

\ !

l ! I 1

1

i I 1 I I I I I

were sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death, the Accused

was guilty of an offense punishable under Sec. 302. In that case, Court has

observed that the act of the Accused in pouring acid on the body was a

preplanned one and he intended to cause injury which he actually caused.

Following these decisions, the learned trial judge has come to the conclusion

that the Accused Appellant with premeditation making the deceased come to

her place and caused the death of the deceased by throwing acid at him. If the

learned trial judge had independently, looked at the facts of this case without

applying them to the facts of those two decisions, she could have come to a

different decision, I suppose.

"Whoever causes death by doing an act with the intention of causing death, or

with the intention of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death, or

with the knowledge that he is likely by such act to cause death" is said to

commit culpable homicide according to Sec.293 of the Penal Code. There are

three means of committing the offence of culpable homicide according to the

above mentioned section. One is having the intention of causing death, the

second is having the intention of a physical injury which may cause death and

the third is being aware that his act could lead to death. The definition about

culpable homicide described in Sec.293 includes the offence of murder and the

culpable homicide not amounting to murder. An act included in the above

10

JI

III

~ f II

i II

I

J .

1 ! definition becomes a murder under the instances described in Sec.294 only.

Firstly, if the act is committed with the intention of causing death; the second

is causing a physical injury which he knows could result in death; the third is

causing a physical injury intentionally which is sufficient to cause death; and

fourthly if the person committing the act is aware that it is so dangerous that it

necessarily leads to death. Where one needs to know what is meant by

culpable homicide not amounting to murder is, what has to be done is to

deduct the Sec. 294 from Sec. 293. Then, the remainder is the culpable

homicide not amounting to murder.

It is pertinent to quote a passage from the judgment of H.N.G. Fernando CJ in

the case of Somapala v. The Queen3

"The 3,d limb of s.294 postulates one element which is also present in the

second clause of s.293, namely, the element of the intention to cause bodily

injury; but whereas the offence of culpable homicide is committed, as stated in

the second clause of s.293, when there is intention to cause bodily injury likely

to cause death, the offence is one of murder under the 3,d limb of s.294 only

when the intended injury is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause

death. In our opinion, it is this 3,d limb of s.294 which principally corresponds to

3. (72 NLR 121)

11

III

,

I

,

II

J .

the second clause of s.293; and (as is to be expected) every intention

contemplated in the latter second clause is not also contemplated in the former

3,d limb. An injury which is only likely to cause death is one in respect of which

there is no certainty that death will ensuel whereas the injury referred to in the

3,d limb of s.294 is one which is certain or nearly certain to result in death if

there is no medical or surgical intervention. This comparison satisfies us that

the object of the Legislature was to distinguish between the cases of culpable

homicide defined in the second clause of s. 2931 and to provide in the 3,d limb of

s. 294 that only the graver cases (as just explained) will be cause of murder. If

this was not the object of the Legislaturel then there would be no substantial

difference between culpable homicide as defined in the second clause of s. 293

and murder as defined in the 3,d limb of s. 294. It will be seen also that if the

object of the 2nd limb of s. 294 was to adopt more or less completely the second

clause of s. 2931 then the 3,d limb of s. 294 would be very nearly super/luous. II

1 I

His Lordship has further stated in the said judgment that

'7here is evidence also of a similar design in the 4th limb of s. 294; knowledgel

that an act is so imminently dangerous that it must in all probability cause

death or such bodily injury as is likely to cause deathl is knowledgel not merely

of the likelihood of causing deathl but of the high probability of causing death

12

-.

or injury likely to cause death; so that many cases which fall within the third

clause of s. 293 will not be murder within the meaning of the 4th limb of s. 294." I I

It is the accepted principle that where there is doubt whether the degree of

knowledge reflected in the act is insufficient to convict the Accused Appellant

for the charge of murder, benefit of the doubt should be exercised in

convicting the offender for lesser culpability.

Gratiaen J, in Mendis Vs the Queen4 held that the prosecution in presenting a

charge of murder should be held in a position to place evidence before the

court to establish that in the ordinary course of nature there was a very great

antecedent probability (as opposed to a mere likelihood)

(a) Of the supervening condition arising as a consequence of the injury

inflicted, and also

(b) Of such supervening condition resulting in death.

I am of the opinion that the framework of facts of this case is, the remainder

when the Sec. 294 is taken off the Sec. 293. If this is further clarified, when the

facts of this case are substituted for the explanation 2 of Sec.293, since any

one of the 4 limbs in Sec 294 are not found among those facts, what we find

here is not a murder, but a culpable homicide not amounting to murder.

4. (1952) 54 NLR 177

13

IlIII

f

~ I

II! lIII

r

II ;

\ I

, .

When there is an intention to cause bodily injury likely to cause death which

is in the 2nd clause of Sec. 293 and the injury caused is not necessarily results in

death in the ordinary cause of nature such an act comes within the first part of

Sec. 297 of the Penal Code. Therefore, we are of the opinion that the learned

trial judge erred in convicting the Accused Appellant for the charge of murder

under Sec.296 of the Penal Code. Therefore, this court sets aside the

conviction and the death sentence passed by the trial judge and convict the

Accused Appellant for the charge of culpable homicide not amounting to

murder under Sec.297 of the Penal Code. After taking the facts and

circumstances into consideration this court decides to sentence the Accused

Appellant for 15 years rigorous imprisonment and impose a fine of Rs.

10,000/= carrying a default sentence of six months' simple imprisonment.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

H.N.J. PERERA J

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

14

iI

f Ii

f

f I

[

! i I I

,

r,