==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 755/2000 F

DC Hambantota No. 1210/L

Malabadagamage Wimalawathie,

Madayamalalanda,

Koggalle.

Plaintiff

Vs.

Vincent J ayawamasinghe,

Welewadiya, Modarapiliwala,

Koggalle.

Defendant

AND NOW BETWEEN

Malabadagamage Wimalawathie,

Madayamalalanda,

Koggalle.

Plaintiff Appellant

Vs

Vincent J ayawamasinghe,

Welewadiya, Modarapiliwala,

Koggalle.

Defendant Respondent

•

BEFORE

COUNSELS

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS ON :

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE.J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE J.

Collin Amarasinghe with G.R. Perera for the

Plaintiff Appellant

Sudarshani Cooray for the Defendant

Respondent

10.01.2012 and 21.02.2012

20.11.2012

21.03.2013

The Plaintiff Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant)

instituted the said action against the Defendant Respondent (hereinafter referred to

as the Respondent) seeking for a judgment declaring her right to possess the land

described in the schedule to the plaint. The Respondent filed answer denying the

averments contained in the plaint and prayed for a dismissal of the Appellant's

action. The Respondent averred that he has been in possession of the said land

since 1979 and on 0 1.11.1998 the Deputy Commissioner of land, Hambantota had

issued the land permit bearing No 64896 in his name and he was the permit holder

of the land in dispute. After trial the learned District Judge has dismissed the

Appellant's action. Being aggrieved by the said judgement dated 25.04.2000 the

Appellant has preferred the present appeal to this court.

3

The Appellant has claimed the land in dispute upon a land permit

issued by the Divisional Secretary. But at the trial the Appellant in his evidence at

page 69 of the brief had admitted that her land permit was cancelled by the

Divisional Secretary. Although she had stated that the said cancellation was later

revoked she could not produce such a letter of cancellation. In this regard the

Appellant has relied upon a letter which had been produced at the trial marked

V 16. I have perused the said document. But the said document V 16 cannot be

treated as a letter which had been issued revoking the letter of cancellation of the

land permit issued to the Appellant. It was a notice sent under 6th schedule of the

Land Development Ordinance to the Appellant directing her to pay a fine for non

compliance of the terms and conditions of the land permit.

Apart from that the official witness who was called to give evidence

for the case of the Appellant has testified at page 88 of the brief that the land

permit issued to the Appellant has been cancelled. Hence it is correct to decide that

the Appellant was not the permit holder of the land in dispute.

The Appellant further contended that the boundaries of the two land

permits were different and the learned trial Judge has not properly considered this

matter in the judgment. I have noted that at the commencement of the trial both

parties had admitted the corpus of the action. Hence the Appellant cannot now

raise matters touching the identity of the subject matter of the action.

The Appellant further contended that she has filed the action in the

District Court on 03rd of September 1991 and the land permit has been cancelled on

23.10.1991 and since the said cancellation of the land permit has been taken place

after the institution of the action rights of the parties to be decided as at the date of

institution of the action. In this regard the Respondent contended that he is in

4

possession of the land in dispute upon a land permit issued to him on 01.11.1988

and the Appellant has never been in possession of the land dispute.

In this regard I have considered the document produced marked V 16.

According to the said document the Appellant has failed to take over the

possession of the land after the death of the original permit holder. It further

appears that Wilson Jayawardena, the Respondent was in possession of the land.

At the trial, the Respondent has produced his land permit dated 01.11.1988 marked

V 14. It is clear from V 14 that the Respondent has come in to the possession of the

land long before the granting of the land permit to the Appellant and the

Respondent has been in possession continuously. Upon the said circumstances the

Appellant in this case cannot contend that the right of the parties to be decided as

at the date of institution of the action. Hence I am of the view that the learned

District Judge has rightly concluded that the Respondent was the permit holder of

the land in dispute.

Hence I see no reason to interfere with the said judgement of the

learned District Judge dated 25.04.2000. Therefore I dismiss the appeal of the

Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal