==== BLOCKS ==== 

• 1. -In the Court of Appeal of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

CA 484/96 (F)

DC Kagalle 3475/L

Before: A WA Salam J.

KG Roslin,

Batawela, Hingula

10 Defendant-Appellant

Vs

M R Sriyani Udawela,

Owatta,

Hingula

Plaintiff-Respondent

M W Podineris, 631, Colombo-Kandy Road, Hingula and others

Defendant -Respondents

Counsel: Sunil Abeyratna for 10 Defendant-Appellant and C J Ladduwahetti for Plaintiff-Respondent.

W /S tentedered on : 17.01.2011

Decided on :08.03.2011

A W Abdus Salam, J T

his appeal has been preferred by K.G.Roslin -10

defendant-appellant seeking to set aside the order dated

10.7.1996 refusing her application to set aside the judgment

entered after exparte hearing.

The appellant contends that the impugned order is contrary

to the weight of evidence adduced at the inquiry and the

learned district judge had erred in rejecting the evidence of

the native physician who treated her.

According to the evidence led at the inquiry into the

application to purge default, the appellant (10 defendant)

stated that on the day the answer was due, she was suffering

from fever and stomach disorder and therefore, unable to be

present in court. In proof of her illness she produced a

medical certificate which was marked as Pl.

As regards the treatment given by the native physician the

evidence given by the appellant and the physician before the

learned district judge was glaringly contradictory. The

appellant maintained that she was given some pills and a

mixture while the physician stated that he treated her with a

decoction. Further, the appellant failed to produce or cause to

be produced the register claimed to have been maintained by

the physician. Taking all these matters into consideration, the

learned district judge has rightly concluded that the appellant

had failed to adduce any plausible explanation for her default.

In the circumstances, this Court sees no reason to interfere

with the impugned judgment of the learned district judge.

Accordingly, this appeal stands dismissed without costs.

~ Judge of the Court of Appeal