==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Wickremaarachchige Mallikaka Ranatunga

Udawatta, Batuwana, Niyadurupola.

C.A.Appeal NO.841/99 F

D.C.Kegalle Case No 3465/L

Substituted Plaintiff-Respondent

Vs

l(i) Oewalayage Emalin of

Kumburegama Palambure,

Niyandurupola.

l(ii) Wahumpurage Sunil Premathilaka

Kumburegama Palambure,

Niyandurupola.

l(iii) Wahumpurage Wimalatissa of

Kumburegama, Palambure,

Niyandurupola.

l(iv) Wahumpurage Lionel

I

1 i

Wickremaratne of

Kumburegama Palambure,

Niyandurupola.

Substituted Defendants-Respondents

Wahumpurage Wimalatissa of

Kumburegama, Palambure,

Niyandurupola.

1(iii) Substituted Defendant-Appellant

Before: H.N.J.Perera, J.

Counsel: M.S.M.Kamil for the Substituted l(iii) Defendant-Appellant

Anura P.B.Herath for the Substituted Plaintiff-Respondent

Argued: 28.06.2013 & 12.07.2013

Written Submissions: 26.04.2013/05.08.2013

Decided: 21.10.2013

H.N.J.Perera, J.

The plaint in this case was filed in August 1990 seeking a declaration

of title to a portion of a land described in the schedule to the plaint,

ejectment of the defendant from the said portion and for damages

and costs.

The plaintiff has in paragraph 2, 3 and 4 in the plaint pleaded title to

the land called warellahena in extent 1 acre and 13 perches. It was

also pleaded that the defendant-appellant had encroached upon a

\t!

, I

portion Of the said land. In paragraph 5 of the plaint the encroached

portion has been described with reference to a plan. The plaintiff

marked the plan No 809 as X in evidence and also called the maker of

the said document surveyor D.Ratnayake to prove the same.

In the instant case, the plaint contains an averment that the original

owner of this land was Wahumpurage Adiliya and after his death

Wahumpurage Dina who succeeded him transferred his rights by

deed No 10526 dated 17.01.1958 to the plaintiff-respondent.

The defendant-appellant himself claimed title to the said portion of

land on a chain of title set out in his answer. The District Judge held

in favour of the plaintiff.

The main contention of the Counsel for the defendant-appellant is

that without pleading declaration of title to the entirety of the

corpus, plaintiff cannot plead title to a part of it and eject the

defendant there from. This court observes that the plaintiff in this

case has pleaded and proved title to the land described in the

schedule to the plaint but has not prayed for a declaration of title to

the entire land that is described in the schedule to the plaint. Instead

he has prayed that he be declared owner to the portion of land

encroached by the defendant-appellant in this case. He has failed to

identify the said portion by way of a schedule to the plaint.

It is useful at this stage to consider the provisions of section 41 of the

Civil Procedure Code. It states:

"When the claim made in the action is for some specific portion of

land, or for some share or interest in a specific portion of land, then

the portion of land must be described in the plaint so far as possible

by reference to a sufficient sketch, map, or plan to be appended to

the plaint, and not by name only."

Section 46 (2) of the Civil Procedure Code states that a court may

refuse to entertain a plaint when first filed and return the same for

amendment then and there if it is found that the plaint did not state

correctly several particulars required by the earlier sections to be

specified therein, which includes the provisions of section 41 above -

mentioned.

In this case the plaintiff -respondent has complied with section 41 of

the Civil Procedure Court by describing the said portion of land with

reference to a plan. In paragraph 5 of the plaint the plaintiff has

described the portion encroached by the defendant with reference

to plan No 809 marked as X in evidence.

It is submitted on behalf of the defendant that the judgment IS

contrary to the plaint, the evidence of the plaintiff and the surveyor.

It is also submitted that the surveyor in giving evidence stated to

court that he prepared the plan X by visiting the said land and that

plan Y was prepared without visiting the land and also that both

plans was made by him by comparing a photocopy of original plan

which is not a certified copy by the relevant authority and further

that it has not been signed. And further the said two plans X and Y

are not similar and even the extent shown are also different and

surveyor's evidence in court was very vague and even the learned

additional district Judge correctly observed so in the judgment.

Therefore it is the contention of the Counsel for the defendant-

appellant that the evidence of the surveyor should not have been

accepted by court as independent evidence to grant a judgment in

favour of the plaintiff.

Therefore the real question this court has to decide in this case is

whether the plaintiff-respondent has correctly identified the said

portion of land possessed by the defendant-appellant. For this

JI

purpose the plaintiff-respondent has marked and produced two

plans X and VI made by the surveyor and also had led the surveyor's

evidence at the trial. It is to be noted that the learned District Judge

has analysed the surveyor's evidence in detail and has come to the

conclusion that he cannot rely on the evidence given by the

surveyor. The learned judge has stated that the boundaries shown in

the schedule to the plaint in fact do not tally with that shown in the

two plans and has expressed his doubts as to whether the land

described in the schedule to the plaint has been properly surveyed

and depicted in the said plans. The surveyor has also stated to court

that these plans were made by him by comparing a photocopy of the

plan 4098 marked PI which was not certified. In Gunasekera Vs

Punchimenika and others [2002] 2 Sri L.R. 43 Wigneswaran, J has

observed that for superimposition purposes Photostat copies are to

be avoided since they lack accuracy. The learned trial Judge has

observed that the northern boundary in the schedule to the plaint

has not been identified either in plan X or V. The northern boundary

in plan 4089 lot No 3 has not been identified in Plan X or V. And even

the western boundary depicted in plan No 4098 lot No 1 too has not

been identified either in plan X or V. In other words the land which

the plaintiff sought to obtain declaration of title and ejectment of the

defendant has not been properly identified.

Therefore this court is of the view that the plaintiff-respondent in

this case has failed to properly identify the portion in dispute which

is in the possession of the defendant-appellant, and to prove that the

defendant is in possession of a portion of the land depicted in the

schedule to the plaint to the satisfaction of court and the learned

District judge should have dismissed the plaintiff's action on that

ground alone.

i

\

An appellate Court is bound to correct errors committed by the trial

Judge whilst being mindful of the principle that an Appellate Court

should be slow to disturb the finding of a fact by a trial Judge who

had the benefit of observing the witness.

In Benmax Vs Austin Motor Co LTD 1955 AELR [Vol 1 ]327 it was

held:

An appellate Court, on an appeal from a case tried before a judge

alone, should not lightly differ from a finding of the trial Judge on a

question of fact, but a distinction in this respect must be drawn

between the perception of facts and the evaluation of facts. Where

there is no question of the credibility of witnesses, but the sole

question is the proper inference to be drawn from specific facts, an

Appellate Court is in as good a position to evaluate the evidence as

the trial Judge, and should from its own independent opinion,

though it will give weight to the opinion of the trial Judge.

For the reasons aforementioned I set aside the judgment of the

District Court of Kegalle dated 15.09.1999 and dismiss the plaintiff-

respondent's action. This appeal is accordingly allowed. I make no

order as to costs.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL