==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA 1090/2000 (F)

D.C. Avissawella Case No. 199 fP

Nadurana Pathirannehelage

Hemaratne of Atulugama,

Dehiowita.

Plaintiff-Appellant.

vs.

0 1.Nedurana Pathirannehelage

Tilakaratne, Atalugama,

Dehiowita.

02. N edurana Pathirannehelage

Charlis Singho, Atalugama,

Dehiowita.

2a.Nedurana Pathirannehelage

,; Lakshmi Siriyalatha

Padmasiri, Ataugama,

Dehiowita.

3. Pattiyakandage Janenona

Weragala, No. 954,

Talangama-North, Malambe.

4. Pathberiya Appuhamilage

Podimenike, 'Kumari',

Atalugama, Dehiowita.

Defendant-REspondents.

BEFORE : A. W.A. Salam, J

COUNSEL : C. Amaratunga for the Appellant.

C. Wanigapura for the Ist Defendant-Appellant.

ARGUED ON :05.10.2011

DECIDED ON : 30.04.2013

A W A Salam, J

The appellant m this appeal was the plaintiff in the action

instituted for the partition of a land called MONATENNA

GALAPALLE HENA more fully set out in the schedule to the

plaint which was later depicted in the preliminary plan No 510

prepared by S S R A J ayasingha, Commissioner of Court. The

extent of the corpus as described in the preliminary plan is

3 roods and 13.5 perches. There was no dispute as to the

identity of the corpus.

The parties were not at variance that they are govemed by the

Kandyan Law in regard to the devolution of title. The main

points of contest raised at the trial were of twofold. To begin

with, the plaintiff took up the position that Aushadahamy,

Punchirala Arachchila, and Kudagamage Naidehamy were the

original owners of the corpus in the proportion of 1 I 3 share

each. The contesting parties (3rd and 4th defendants) disputed

the position of the plaintiff on that account and maintained

that Naidehamy who was said to be entitled to 113 share, in

fact owned only 1 I 4 share ( and not 1 I 3 share as asserted by

the plaintiff) and the balance 1 I 12 share was owned by

Bandulahamy.

The learned district judge answered the point of contest as

between the plaintiff and the 3rd and 4th defendants on the

question relating to the original ownership in favour of the

contesting defendants. Accordingly, the learned district judge ~

held that the original owners of the corpus were Aushadahamy,

Punchirala Arachchila, Kudagamage Naidehamy and

Bandulahamy in the proportion of 113, 113, 114, 1112

respectively. In coming to this conclusion the learned district

judge has examined the oral evidence adduced before him and

carefully analysed the manner in which Naidehamy and

Bandulahamy and their successors in title have dealt with

their share from and out of the corpus. Having given my

anxious consideration to the convincing reasons given by the

trial judge which had influenced him in the decision in favour

of the 3rd and 4th defendant on the question of the original

ownership of the corpus, I see no reason to interfere with the

same.

The other question that anses for decision in this appeal is

whether it is correct to allot shares to the plaintiff and the 1st

defendant which they say that they acquired through

Podihamy and Nandawathie. According to the plaintiff

Hondahamy died leaving three children namely Appuhamy,

Podihamy and Nandawathie. The said Podihamy and

Nandawathie married after the death of their father under the ~~

Marriages Ordinance (General) and therefore were not

disqualified from inheriting from their deceased father at that

time. The contesting defendants contended that the two

daughters of Hondahamy by having contracted marriages

under the Marriages Ordinance (General). They submit that

these two marriages should be treated as deega marriages and

therefore they are disqualified from being heirs to their

deceased father.

It is of much importance to bear in mind that Hondahamy died

in the year 1925 and the two daughters of Hondahamy whose

title to the corpus is contested, entered into matrimony in 1926

and 1935 (vide P9 and P10). Based on these facts, the plaintiff

contend that the said two daughters of Hondahamy having

married after the death of the father will not fall under the

group of people deserve to be disqualified from inheriting the

father's estate under Kandyan Law.

To buttress his argument the plaintiff cited that under

Kandyan Law (Amendment Ordinance) of 1944 a woman who

married in deega after her father's death forfeited the right to

paternal inheritance. However, this principle has been

unstiffened by the introduction of section 12 ( 1) of the Kandyan

Law Amendment Ordinance which reads as follows.

12 {1) The deega marriage of a daughter after the death of

her father shall not affect or deprive her of any share of

his estate to which she shall have become entitled, upon

his death, provided that if within a period of one year

after the date of such marriage the brothers and binna-

married sisters of such daughter or any one or more of

them, but if more than one then jointly and not severally,

shall tender to her the fair market value of the immovable

property constituting the aforesaid share or any part

thereof, and shall call upon her to convey the same to him

or her or them, such daughter shall so convey and shall

be compellable by action so to do.

In the circumstances, it was contended on behalf of the

plaintiff that in terms of section 12 (1) of the Kandyan law

(Amendment) Ordinance the two daughters of Hondahamy who

married in deega should not be disqualified from inheriting the

estate of their deceased father.

It has to be noted that the KANDYAN LAW Ordinance No 39 of

1938 which was passed on 1.1.1938 was amended by

Ordinance No 25 of 1944 and the objective of the said

Ordinance was to declare and amend the Kandyan Law in

certain respects. As stated above the two daughters of

Hondahamy had married prior to the year 1938. The provisions

of section 12 ( 1) has no retrospective operation or deemed or

construed to have, any such effect except in such cases where

express provision is made to the contrary. (Vide Section 27 of

the Kandyan Law (Amendment). More particularly the

provisions of section 12 and the other provisions in the

Kandyan Law Ordinance were applicable only to marriages

contracted after the commencement of the Kandyan Law

Ordinance. Since the marriage of both daughters of

Hondahamy whose right of inheritance from the deceased

father is in issue, had taken place after the commencement of

the Kandyan Law Ordinance and therefore the Provision of

section 12 ( 1) of the said Ordinance has no application to the

present dispute.

The rights of a "deega" married daughter to acqUire the

property of the late father on the basis of paternal inheritance

has been considered in several cases. Undoubtedly in a deega

marriages a wife is considered a member of the husband's

family. In such an event she puts an end to her being treated

as a member of the Mulgedara or the parental home. The

character of the marriage under Kandyan Law reflects greatly

on the place of residence subsequent to the marriage as agreed

upon at the time of the solemnization of the marriage.

Forfeiture of rights to succession is interwoven with the type of

marriage, namely whether it is binna or deegae.

The effect of a deega marriage of a daughter is that she loses

the right to succeed to the estate of her father. In absence of

any evidence to the contrary a deega marriage indicates the

quitting from her parental home and point to a departure to

join another family.

For the reasons stated in a cogent manner in the judgement,

the learned district judges fmding that both Podihamy and

Nandawathie should be treated as having married in deega

cannot be faulted.

In the case of Lewis Singho vs Kusumawathie 2003 2 SLR 128

it was held that the production of the marriage certificates

under the General Marriages Ordinance, where there is no

entry with regard to the nature of the marriage, the

presumption is that the marriage is deega and not binna.

When the above principle is applied to the facts of the present

case, no difficulty could arise to exclude the two daughters' of

Hondahamy from being the heirs of the deceased father. The

position would be different had they married after the

commencement of the Kandyan Law Ordinance. If that be so

Section 12 of the Kandyan Law (amendment) would be

applicable and Podihamy and Nandawathie could probably

have inherited from the father if the market value of their share

is not offered by their siblings, namely the brother and the

sister who married in binna within the stipulated period of

time.

As such, I fmd no reasons whatsoever to interfere with the

judgement of the learned district judge and therefore proceed

to dismiss the appeal subject to costs.

NR/-

Judge of the Court of Appeal

2---/ j··-----·-J ~---...J 9 __ , .... ______ _