==== BLOCKS ==== 

1 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an Appeal in terms of

Section 331 of the code of Criminal

Procedure Act No. 15 of 1979.

C.A. Case No. 46/2001

H.C. Kandy No. 1703/96

Ravindra Dharmapriya Keerthiratne

Alias "Kalu malli" ,

Accused-Appellant.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Respondent.

r •

Before

Counsel

Argued on

Written Submissions

Tendered on

Decided on

Sarath De Abrew, J.

2

Rohini Marasinghe, J and

Sarath De Abrew, J.

Ranjith Abeysuriya, P.C., with Thanuja Rodrigo

for the Accused-Appellant.

Dappula De Livera, Deputy Solicitor General,

for the Respondent.

27.10.2009

28.01.2010

30.05.2012.

The Accused-Appellant was indicted before the

High Court of Kandy with committing the offence of murder of one

Kudagamage Denzil on 1ih October 1989 at Thalawakele punishable

3

under Section 296 of the Penal Code. After trial without a JUry the

Accused-Appellant was duly convicted for murder and sentenced to

death by the learned trial judge on 18.07.2001. Being aggrieved of

the aforesaid conviction and sentence the Accused-Appellant (sometimes

hereinafter referred to as the Appellant) has tendered this appeal to

this Court.

The case for the prosecution rested mainly on

circumstantial evidence and the dying deposition of the deceased

N.R. Dayani and K. Kannadasa, neighbours of the deceased had

gIVen evidence for the prosecution, followed by the evidence of

W. Sellaraj a local barber, and one Premasiri who was employed In

boutique of the deceased. Thereafter Dr. Seneviratne, then J.M.O.

Kandy, has given evidence with regard to the injuries on the

deceased and the appellant based on the PMR and MLR prepared

by one Dr. Sunil Fernando who has gone abroad. I.P. Weeraratne,

then O.I.C. crimes, Thalawakele had given evidence as to the nature

of the investigations conducted by the police. The evidence of P .C.

Adam Sadan as to deployment of a police dog in the investigations

has been rejected by the learned trial judge on the basis that the

4

witness had failed to tender evidence as to having the skill and

knowledge to handle such police dogs. Finally the brother of the

deceased, K. Anura Dewa had given evidence followed by that of the

Interpreter Mudliyar with regard to the non-summary proceedings in

M.e. Nuwara Eliya.

The Appellant has made a lengthy dock statement

denying complicity and attaching culpability on two unidentified

assailants who intruded into the house of the deceased that night in

darkness as the lights went off when he was watching video films

with the deceased. One S.W. Gunasinghe, a clerk at the Thalawakele

Urban council, had been called as a defence witness m an

unsuccessful attempt to establish that there was a exit door at the

back of the house of the deceased other than the front entrance.

The learned trial Judge who gave judgment and

passed sentence in this case has not had the benefit of observing the

demeanor and deportment of witnesses as the entirety of the

evidence in this trial has been led before his predecessors and only

the final addresses by the opposmg counsel had been conducted

5

before the learned trial Judge who had adopted the entirety of the

evidence as the defence did not object.

The facts briefly are as follows. The deceased was

a boutique owner who was living alone in the premises in question

where the only ingress and exit was the front door. According to the

evidence, the deceased had an affinity to watch video films at night

in the house in the company of friends including the appellant. On

the day in question, around 8 p.m., the deceased had closed his

boutique and come to his house accompanied by his employee

Premasiri and joined by the appellant. Premasiri had left later leaving

the deceased alone in the house watching films with the appellant.

Soon after, the neighbours including Dayani and Kannadasa had

heard cnes from the deceased's house including sounds of a

struggle and sounds of articles been broken followed by the sound

of a person vomiting with difficulty. The neighbours, including the

above two witnesses had converged on the premises and having

vigorously banged on the front door which had been locked from

inside, had failed m their attempt to open the door from outside.

This attempt and the vigil had continued for about 10 minutes,

6

when suddenly the front door was unlocked from inside and the

stark naked deceased had staggered out with multiple bleeding

injuries and had collapsed and fallen on the ground while uttering

"Kalu malli mawa kepuwa" (Kalu malli cut me). The accused-

appellant was known as Kalu malli in the locality.

The next phase of this drama was enacted when,

about 03 minutes later, the appellant himself had alighted from

inside the house from the front door and fallen on top of the fallen

The appellant two had suffered certain injuries though not apparently visible

at that time. The appellant has been wearing a denim jacket and a sarong.

The appellant was later seen seated in front of the house on the verandah

abutting the road close to where two blood stained gloves were later

found. Thereafter the younger brother of the deceased, Anura Dewa

too had come there and inquired from the deceased as to what

happened whereupon the deceased has feebly repeated the utterance

If f I

7

that Kalu malli cut him. The neighbours had then fetched a van and

taken the deceased to the hospital. The appellant too had gone to

the hospital in the same vehicle and obtained treatment for his

lllJunes. A police party had then arrived and commenced

investigations. Other than the deceased followed by the appellant, no

one had emerged from the front door of the house and on

investigation, no other persons were found inside the house.

Investigations have confirmed that the only mode of lllgress and

exist was through the front door of the house and there was no

possibility of anyone hiding inside the house escaping through any

other exit. At the time of the incident the neighbours had observed

candles burning inside the house which has been confirmed by police

investigations. Two knives were recovered from inside the house,

one on top of a bag of rice and the other in a crevice .in the

bathroom. (PI and P2). A pair of blood stained gloves were found

outside in a bush opposite to where the appellant was seated.

The deceased had 31 lllJunes including 17 cut

lllJunes on his body. The medical evidence supported the position

that the deceased could have uttered the dying deposition soon after

\,,

8

the infliction of the above injuries. The accused-appellant had 05

superficial injuries comprising of 02 cut injuries on the hands, one

abrasion on the right hand little finger, and two contusions on the

right knee and the left side of the head. The medical evidence was

quite decisive that the injuries on the appellant could not have been

self inflicted. The cause of death of the deceased had been due to

excessive bleeding following cut injuries on the neck.

Several grounds of appeal based mostly on questions

of fact were raised on behalf of the appellant as enumerated in the

written submissions tendered to Court.

They may be broadly categorized as follows:

(1) Taking into account the medical evidence as to the number of

blows dealt and the nature and number of injuries inflicted on the

deceased, (the medical evidence had disclosed 31 injuries out of which

17 were cut injuries, while there were 10 abrasions, 03 contusions and

01 stab injury), it was impossible for a single person to have been

,

ItiIi I!

9

able to cause all such injuries on the deceased who was yet alive to

come out of the front door by himself. The medical evidence

revealed that the deceased had been struck at least 14 blows.

(2) The evidence as to the dying deposition to the effect that

"Kalu malli cut me" given by witnesses Dayani, Kannadasa and

Anura Dewa was unreliable for the reason that this dying declaration

was not communicated to LP. Weeraratne by the witnesses when he

came to the scene shortly after the deceased and the accused were

despatched to the hospital in a vehicle and also for the reason that, if

the deceased had in fact made this accusation, the injured accused

appellant would not have been permitted to go to the hospital in the

same vehicle as the deceased.

(3) The learned trial Judge had failed to consider and attach a

proper weightage to the fact that the accused himself had sustained

injuries including two cut injuries on the hands which were not self

inflicted.

10

(4) No consideration has been given to the possibility that an

unknown assailant could have left the house of the deceased through

the front door before witness Kannadasa, who was the first to arrive

there, reached the door of the house of the deceased.

(5) The discovery of a paIr of blood -stained gloves being found

outside the house about 15 feet from the front door lends support to

the position that another person participated in the attack. The fact

that the accused did not use this pair of gloves is supported by the

fact that there was no cut mark on the left glove whereas the

appellant had a superficial cut injury on his left palm. There is no

evidence to support the inference that the accused could have thrown

away the pair of gloves unseen by the witnesses who had gathered

there. The fact that another suspect one Lalith too was arrested and

produced at the non-summary stage and later discharged is relevant

in this context.

(6) The total absence of a motive for the appellant to have

committed this offence accrues to his benefit. The fact that Rs. 95,000

11

cash found secure and undisturbed in a cupboard IS suggestive that

theft or robbery was not the motive.

(7)As there are no cogent and acceptable evidence that the appellant

uttered any deliberate lie, the Lucas principles would not apply.

Having perused the entirety of the proceedings, the

judgment of the learned trial Judge and the written submissions

tendered to Court, it is now left to evaluate the several grounds of

appeal urged on behalf of the appellant in the light of the evidence

led at the trial and the findings arrived at by the learned trial Judge

in his judgment, mindful of the fact that the learned trial Judge did

not have the benefit of questioning witnesses and observing their

demeanour and deportment as the totality of the evidence had been

led before his predecessors.

The grounds of appeal urged on behalf of the

appellant mostly relate to pure questions of fact and questions of

mixed fact and law. Where the learned trial Judge has exhaustively

analyzed the evidence in detail as in this case and arrived at specific

\12 I

findings based on evidence led at the trial, the Appellate Court would

hesitate to interfere with such findings on arguments based on mere

conjecture or surmise, unless it could be conclusively shown that the

learned trial Judge has gravely misdirected himself in arriving at

Improper inferences unsupported by evidence or ignored vital

portions of the evidence which would have had a bearing on the

entire complexion of the case.

Before focusing on the several arguments propounded by

the learned Counsel for the appellant, first and foremost, it is of vital

importance to scrutinize the findings of the learned trial Judge as to

who participated in the drama enacted in the house of the deceased

that fateful night. The accused-appellant, while coming out through

the front door and later in his dock-statement had taken up the

exculpatory position that two unknown assailants entered the house,

put off the lights and attacked the deceased and himself. The

appellant had further claimed that the assailants were still inside the

house when he come out from front door and was unsuccessful in

his attempt to adduce evidence and establish that there was an exit

at the rear of the house through which these assailants could have

13

escaped. The prosecution, on the contrary, had adduced irrefutable

evidence that there were no such assailants inside the house of the

deceased that night and there was no exit at the rear and the only

escape route was through the front door duly guarded by a retinue

of neighbours including witnesses Kannadasa and Dayani whose solid

evidence was that only the deceased and later the appellant emerged

from the house that night through the front door which could only

be opened from inside when locked. The learned trial Judge at

pages 23- 29 of the Judgment (pages 396 - 402 of the record) has

exhaustively dealt with this vital aspect and has arrived at a finding

that the only mode of mgress and exit from the house of the

deceased was through the front door. In the light of the totality of the

evidence led at the trial this Court has no reason to interfere with

that finding which would be the apex on which the entire case would

revolve.

With the above backdrop and the factual situation m

mind, I now proceed to examine the several contentions raised on

behalf of the appellant.

14

The first contention was that IS would have been

impossible for a single person to have caused all the injuries on the

deceased. The deceased had 31 injuries comprising of 17 cut

InJurIes, 10 abrasions, 03 contusions and 01 stab injury resulting

from at least 14 blows inflicted on him. The accused-appellant had

05 injuries comprising of 02 cut injuries on the hands, one abrasion

and two contusions. Two knives had been recovered (PI and P2),

one on top of a rice bag and the other in a crevice in the bathroom.

The cut and stab injuries on the deceased could have been caused

by the razor knife PI. There are no eye witnesses as to what

happened inside the house of the deceased that night. The neighbours

have heard the noise of a continuing struggle, sounds of articles

being broken, cries for help and sounds of someone vomiting with

difficulty. The evidence conclusively establishes the presence of only

the appellant with the deceased inside the house at the time of the

offence. In the light of the above, it is only reasonable to infer that

there arose a sudden fight between the appellant and the deceased,

where the former became the aggressor and inflicted the cut injuries

on the deceased during the course of the struggle which would have

ensued for a period of time. The learned trial Judge too has arrived at

15

a conclusion that there a would have been a fight between them (page

403 of the record). As to who put off the lights, the presence of

candle lights in the rooms, why the deceased did not open the front

door and escape, as to whether the appellant received cut injuries on

his hands while averting blows and as to why the deceased was stark

naked are questions that remain unanswered. If the appellant was

wielding the razor knife (P 1 ) and was the more agile of the two

protagonists, if the contusions and abrasions could have been caused

in the struggle for a certain duration of time in the dark in a confined

area in the house, it was certainly possible for a single person to

have inflicted at least 14 blows resulting in the several injuries on

the deceased. In view of the above, I am of the view that the first

ground of appeal would fail.

The second ground of appeal was the questionable circumstances

under which the accused-appellant was allowed to go to the Kotagala

hospital in the same vehicle as the deceased after the deceased had

accused the appellant by way of his dying deposition which has not

been apparently communicated by the neighbours to I.P. Weeraratne

and the police party who came to the scene of the crime shortly

Ii

I

I

I

16

thereafter. Even though the deceased came out of the front door and

uttered that the accused cut him as testified by witnesses

Kananadasa and Dayani, the appellant too had shortly emerged and

accused two unknown assailants purportedly still inside the home

having attacked them. This certainly would have caused confusion in

the minds of those gathered there unable to determine as to who

were the real perpetrators. The fact that the appellant too had

injuries and feigning serious injury fell on the deceased as he came

out, and the fact that the appellant did not attempt to escape but

calmly sat by the verandah too would have added to the confusion.

Both the deceased and the appellant were well known to the

neighbours as friends who used to watch video films together. In

this confused state of affairs it is very likely that the dying

deposition was not conveyed to the police party who arrived later.

The above course of events and human conduct, in my view, would

not suffice to assail the evidence with regard to the spontaneous

dying declaration pointing a finger of guilt at the accused appellant

in view of the firm testimony given at the trial by witnesses

Kannadasa and Dayani bereft of material contradictions. For the above

reasons, this ground of appeal two should fail.

17 \I, !f

The fourth contention adduced on behalf of the

appellant too should fail due to the following reasons. When

witness Kannadasa arrived at the scene and commenced banging on

the front door, the commotion or struggle was still going on behind

closed doors. The front door had been locked from inside. If an

unknown assailant escaped through the front door before Kannadasa

or Dayani came, as the door was locked from inside, it would have

been possible only if the door was again locked from inside

thereafter by the appellant or the deceased after allowing the alleged

assailant to escape, which was most unlikely. Further, where the

appellant himself had categorically taken up the position as be

emerged through the front door that the two assailants were still

inside the house, the appellant cannot now effect a complete volte

face and claim otherwise.

Dealing with the fifth ground of appeal as to the

discovery of a blood stained pair of gloves without any cut marks

on the left glove, it must be observed that the learned trial Judge

(page 407 of the record) had considered the evidence of witness

I

I 18

Kannadasa that these gloves were found about 08 feet from where

the appellant was seated. No one had seen the appellant carrying or

throwing away these gloves. However the evidence disclose that he

had been wearing a jacket over his sarong as be emerged from the

house. Therefore one cannot exclude the possibility that he hid the

gloves in his clothing as he came out, and awaiting an opportune

moment in the confusion and darkness, threw out the said gloves

which were found close to the place he was seated. There is no

evidence as to who was wearing and using the gloves if at all.

Therefore the lack of cut marks corresponding to those suffered by

the appellant would not suffice to create a reasonable doubt in the

prosecution case which is bolstered by strong cogent circumstantial

evidence and a dying declaration testified to by two witnesses whose

evidence has not been challenged. F or the foregoing reasons, the fifth

ground of appeal too should fail.

As regard the sixth ground of appeal, the prosecution

IS not required to establish a motive as a necessary ingredient to

prove a criminal charge. A cogent and intelligible motive only

advances and strenghters the prosecution case as held in Sumanasena

\

! r

it

J,i

19

vs. Attorney-General (1999) 3 SLR 137 .. Hence this ground of appeal

by itself too should fail.

The seventh ground of appeal too should fail for

the following reasons. In this case the evidence has established that

the appellant had uttered a deliberate untruth as to the presence of

two assailants inside the house when he emerged through the front

door probably to distract the by standers and neighbours gathered

there and formulate a defence. The learned trial Judge has not

misdirected himself in invoking the principles enunciated in Regina

vs Lucas (1981 2 AER 1008) where it was held that deliberate

falsehoods weaken the defence case appreciably and advances in

strength the circumstantial evidence elicited from the prosecution

witnesses. Where the falsehood uttered is so blatant and goes to the

root of the case impacting on its final out come the effect of the

application of the principle is also enhanced.

Finally, it is now left to consider the third ground

of appeal as to whether the learned trial Judge afforded proper

weightage to the fact that the accused himself had sustained InJunes

20

in the incident including two cut injuries on either palm of his hands

which could not have been self inflicted giving rise to the possible

availability of the mitigatory plea of sudden fight or exceeding the

right of private defence.

Before proceeding to examine whether the evidence disclosed at the trial

brings this case within the purview of exception 04 to section 294 of the

Penal Code, the following legal principles must be borne in mind.

a) The offence must be committed without premeditation upon a sudden

quarrel.

b) It is immaterial which party offers the provocation or commits the

initial assault.

c) The evidence must disclose, on a balance of probability, that

circumstances exist which would bring the case within the ambit of

exception 04 to section 294 of the Penal Code. ( King Vs

Chandrasekera 44 NLR 97)

d) Even where an accused person does not put forward a mitigatory plea

based on the exceptions to section 294 of the Penal Code but opts for

an exculpatory plea, there is a duty cast on a trial Judge to assess the

evidence and decid~ on a balance of probability whether the accused

21

was entitled to the lesser verdict on the basis of the exceptions to

section 294 of the Penal Code (Chandradasa Vs The Queen 55 NLR

439)

The learned Trail judge ( pages 414-415 of the record) in his judgment

has rejected the application of the mitigatory plea on the general basis

that it was reasonable to assume that any victim would offer resistance to

his assailant during the course of which the assailant too was likely to

receive injuries in the struggle. The learned trial Judge has misdirected

himself on this aspect as this finding appears to have been arrived at

more on conjecture and surmise rather than on the evidence disclosed at

the trial. Where the victim armed with a knife retaliates it would still

amount to a sudden fight as it is immaterial who commits the initial

assault. Irrespective of the failure of an accused person to specifically

raise the mitigatory plea in favour of an exculpatory plea and irrespective

of the nature of injuries on the victim, where the evidence disclose the

probability of a sudden fight or struggle, there is a duty cast on every trail

Judge to apply the test of probability and improbability to carefully

assess the direct, circumstantial and medial evidence to decide on a

balance of probability whether the injuries on the accused were the result

I,

( I 1

22

of a protracted sudden struggle or whether injuries were merely the

result of unarmed resistance of the victim. The medical evidence support

the inference that both the appellant and the deceased used PI and P2

knives respectively in the struggle.

The learned trial Judge in his judgment has repeatedly

concluded that there had been a protracted struggle between the deceased

and the accused-appellant ( pages 403 and 414 of the record). The medical

evidence has categorically stated that there were clear signs of a struggle

(page 210 of the record) or fight between the parties as discernible from the

injuries on the deceased and the appellant. The two cut injuries on either

palm of hands of the appellant could have been caused by the knife marked

P2. As these injuries were not self inflicted the irresistible inference

would be that the deceased wielded knife P2. The cut injuries on the

deceased could have been caused by the razor knife Pl. Therefore the

medical evidence has supported the view that two knives were used in this

struggle by each party and the appellant too had received cut injuries on his

palms probably in averting blows. There was a duty cast on the trial judge

to question the medical expert on the above aspects and form his own

I I

23 ,

,~ conclusions as to the probability of injuries being caused to either party

during the course of a sudden fight or struggle.

The trial Judge must not permit the medical expert to usurp his functions

but must question the expert to elicit answers on disputed points so as to

form his own judicial conclusions based on the totality of the evince led

at the trial. In this case it is rather unfortunate that neither the doctor who

testified had first hand examined the injured parties, nor the learned trial

judge who gave judgment had heard the evidence. In such a situation, in

examining the several grounds of appeal, there is an onus on the appellate

court to delve into the evidence and review the testimony carefully to

ensure that there is no miscarriage of justice.

A careful study of the evidence reveal the following circumstances

which are suggestive of a sudden fight. The deceased and the appellant

were known to be friends who used to watch video films in the night.

The total absence of a motive or premeditation are factors that are

contributive to the probability that the incident took place due to a sudden

i i I!f I I

24

dispute giving rise to a sudden fight. The testimony of the neighbours as

to the sounds of articles being broken for a certain duration of time as

also suggestive of a continuing struggle. The fact that the appellant joined

the deceased and witness Premasiri to go to the residence of the

deceased to watch video films as usual suggests that there was no

previous enmity or premeditation and the incident in all probability

would have been sparked off as a sudden dispute which ignited between

the parties behind closed doors that night. The fact that the medical

evidence support the proposition that the cut injuries on the appellant

could have been due to averting blows dealt with the P2 knife tilt the

scales in favour of a sudden fight. Where on a balance of probability

all circumstances point to the offence being committed in the heat

of passion upon a sudden quarrel the benefit of this exception cannot

be denied to the offender.

In view of the aforesaid reasons, I am satisfied that the

ends of justice will be met in this case if the appellant is given the benefit of

the mitigatory plea of sudden fight under the exception 04 to section 294 of

the Penal Code.

25

In view of the above, I set aside the conviction and

sentence for murder under section 296 of the penal Code imposed by the

learned High Court Judge of Kandy dated 18.07.2001, and instead convict

the accused-appellant under section 297 of the Penal Code for the offence of

culpable homicide not amounting to murder on the basis of sudden fight

while imposing a sentence of 15 years rigorous imprisonment and a fine of

Rs. 10,0001- in default 02 years imprisonment. I further direct that the

prison term be operative from the date of conviction, namely 18.07.2001.

Registrar is directed to send a copy of this judgment along with the original

case record to the High Court of Kandy for compliance. Accordingly, the

appeal is partly allowed.

~~ JUDGE OF THE· COURT OF APPEAL

Rohini Marasinghe, J

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

AKN

JIfI

il,