==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA Appeal No.415/98(F) D.C.Colombo No. 8632/RE

Leelawathie Ramasamy, No.23/3, Gunananda Mawatha, Colombo 13.

Plaintiff Vs. Welupillai Balakrishnan, No.75/2, Fisheri Road, Colombo 13.

Defendant And Between Leelawathie Ramasamy, No.23/3, Gunananda Mawatha, Colombo 13.

Plaintiff-Appellant Vs. Welupillai Balakrishnan, No.75/2, Fisheri Road, Colombo 13.

Defendant-Respondent

C.A.APPEALN0.415/98(F)

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED & DECIDED ON:

K. T.CHITRASIRI,J.

D.C.COLOMBO CASE N0.8632/RE

K. T .CHITRASIRI,J

S.Perinpanayagam for the Plaintiff-Appellant

Samantha Vithana with Ms.Nishanthi Mendis for the Defendant-Respondent.

31. 01. 2013

Mr.Perinpanayagam appearing for the plaintiff-appellant informs Court that

he has written to the plaintiff-appellant with a copy to her Power of Attorney holder,

namely Dr.A.M.Gangatharan requesting her to inform him whether she is pursuing

with this appeal. A copy of the said letter written to the appellant and the two

receipts of the registered postal article are being tendered to Court by

Mr.Perinpanayagam. Registrar is directed to file the said letter and the two receipts

to the docket.

In the said letter it is stated that Mr.Perinpanayagam was informed by the

Power of Attorney holder of the plaintiff-appellant that it is the desire of the

plaintiff-appellant not to pursue this appeal. Moreover, Mr.Perinpanayagam informs

Court that he is not received instructions to appear for the plaintiff-appellant either

by the appellant or by her Power of Attorney holder.

IlI

.,

2

At this stage counsel for the defendant-respondent submits that the plaintiff-

appellant did not appear in Court when the trial was taken up in the District Court.

She had neither being present in this Court at any stage. Hence, it is clear that the

appellant is not interested in pursuing this appeal.

The plaintiff-appellant had filed this action to obtain possession of the land

referred to in the schedule to the plaint and to have the defendant-respondent and his

agents evicted therefrom. In paragraph 4 of the plaint it is stated that this action was

filed on the basis that the premises in suit falls within the category of "excepted

premises" referred to in the Rent Act No.07 of 1972. Learned District Judge in his

judgment dated 26.05.1998 which is being impugned by this appeal, has held that the

plaintiff had failed to establish that the premises are "excepted premises" for the

purpose of the Rent Act. In coming to this conclusion, learned trial Judge had relied

on the deed bearing No.9 attested by J.Charles, Notary Public, marked in evidence as

P5 and accordingly he had held that the plaintiff was not the owner of the premises

on the relevant date, namely on 1.1.1980.

The matters in respect of the occupation and the ownership of the premises as

at 1.1.1980 are important matters that need consideration under section 2(4) of the

Rent Act. Section 2 (4) (c) of 1972 of the Rent Act reads thus:-

" residential premises occupied by the owner on

January 1, 1980, and let on or after that date".

In the case of Hettiarachchi v. Hettiarachi (1994) 2 SLR at 188, it was held

that "when the exemption of the Rent Act is claimed, the plaintiff has to prove that

he/she was in occupation ofthe premises on 1.1.1980 in the capacity ofthe owner".

3

Learned Counsel for the defendant-respondent submits that there is no

evidence forthcoming to prove that the plaintiff was in occupation of the premises on

1.1.1980. Furthermore, the deed bearing No.9 clearly shows that the plaintiff was

not the owner of the premises by that date. Therefore, it is clear that the learned

District Judge is correct when he dismissed the plaint on the basis that the premises

in suit does not fall within the category of"excepted premises", referred to in section

2 (4) (a) of the Rent Act upon which basis the action had been filed.

In the circumstances, I am not inclined to interfere with the judgment of the

learned District Judge.

For the aforesaid reasons this appeal is dismissed with costs.

Appeal dismissed

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL