==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

K.P.Sumanawathie Hathe Kanuwa, Kiripedda, Karandeniya

1 st Defendnt-Appellant Vs C.A.NO.830/98 (F) D.C.BALAPITIYA CASE NO.1273/L

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON

DECIDED ON

Nilenti Sirisena 25, Runwapura Mawatha Kiripedda, Karandeniya

Plaintiff-Respondent Vs

H. N .Ariyadasa Kiripedda, Karandeniya

D. Ranasinghe Kiripendda, Karandeniya 2 nd & 3 rd Defendant-Respondents

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J.

Mohan Walpita with D.Bandara for the 1st Defendant-Appellant

A.Kaluphana with T.Wijegunawardena for

the Plaintiff-Responjent

20TH JANUARY 2014

23rd July 2013 by the 1st Defendant-Appellant

17th February 2014 by the Plaintiff-Respondent

10th MARCH 2014

1

CHITRASIRI. J.

Plaintiff-Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the plaintiff) in his

original plaint filed in the District Court of Balapitiya sought inter alia to have

a judgment declaring that he is entitled to the land referred to in the First

Schedule thereto. However, pursuant to a return of a Commission obtained

by the plaintiff, he filed an amended plaint which is dated 21.10.1991 and in

that amended plaint too he sought that he be declared entitled to the land

referred to in the First Schedule to the amended plaint which is identified as

lot "H". In that plaint, he also moved to have the 1st defendant-respondent

(hereinafter referred to as the 1 st defendant) evicted therefrom and also

sought to have damages from the 1st defendant until the plaintiff is placed in

possession of the land that he claims.

The 1st defendant in her amended answer, having stated that she had

been in possession of the aforesaid land referred to in the First Schedule to

the plaint since the year 1954, sought to have the amended plaint of the

plaintiff dismissed. However, it must be noted that she has not prayed for a

declaration of title to the land in question though she has pleaded

longstanding possession for the same. The 2nd and the 3rd defendant-

respondents were added as parties to the action consequent upon the return

of the Commission obtained by the plaintiff. Those two respondents have not

claimed the land referred to in the First Schedule to the plaint. Their claim is

in respect of the land identified as lot "C" to which neither the plaintiff nor the

2

15t defendant has made a claim. Therefore, the issue in this case is to

determine whether the plaintiff is entitled to the land morefully described in

the First Schedule to the amended plaint as opposed to the rights claimed by

the 15t defendant to that land.

It is fundamental in law that a person who comes to the District Court

seeking for a declaration of title to a land must prove his title to that land or

in other words it is the burden of the person who claims title to a land to

establish his title in order to have a judgment in a rei vindicatio action. This

proposition in law has been upheld in numerous occasions including in the

cases referred to below.

In D. A. WANIGARATNE Vs JUWANIS APPUHAMY et al., [65 NLR

167] it was held thus:

"It has been laid down now by this Court that in an

action rei vindicatio the plaintiff should set out his title on

the basis on which he claims a declaration of title to the land

and must, in Court, prove that title against the defendant in

the action. The defendant in a rei vindicatio action need not prove

anything, still less, his own title. The plaintiff cannot ask for a

declaration of title in his favour merely on the strength that the

defendant's title is poor or not established. The plaintiff must prove

and establish his t~tle. "

[emphasis added]

3

In the case of LOKU MENIKA AND OTHERS Vs GUNASEKARE

[1997 (2) SLR 281] it was decided as follows:

(i) The plaintiff must set out his title on the basis on which

he claims a declaration of title to the land and must prove that title against the defendant.

(ii) A Court cannot grant any relief to a plaintiff except on what he

has pleaded and proved to the satisfaction of Court.

(iii) A defendant should not be called upon to meet a new case or a

new position taken by the plaintiff after he has already closed his

case. [emphasis added]

In that decision DR. Ranaraja J has specifically stated thus:

((The jus vindicendi or the right to recover possesszon is thus

considered an important attribute of ownership in the Roman Dutch

Law (Voet. 6.1.2) - Senanayake v. Silva [1986 (2) SLR 405J. The

owner of immovable property is entitled, on proof of his title

to a decree in his favour for the recovery of property and for the

ejectment of the person in wrongful occupation, Pathirana v.

Jayasundera [56 N L R 166 at 172J. Where, in an action for

declaration of title to land, the defendant is in possession of the

land in dispute, th.e burden is on the plaintiff to prove that he

has dominium. Abeykoon Haminey v. Appuhamy [52 N L R 49J,

Peiris v. Savunhamy [54 N L R 207]. In an action for a declaration

of title and for restoration to possession of land from which a

plaintiff alleges he has been forcibly ousted, the burden of proving

ouster is on the plaintiff Kathiramathamby v. Arumugam [38 C L

W 27]. The plaintiff mu.st set out his title on the basis on

which he claims a declaration of title to the land and must,

4

I

1 I I I

in Court, prove that title against the defendant in the action.

The defendant need not prove anything, still less, his own

title. Wanigaratn.e v. Juwanis Appuhamy.[65 N L R 118]

[At pages 282 and 283 in the judgment]

In the case of LEISA AND ANOTHER Vs SIMON AND ANOTHER

[2002 (1) SLR at page 151] it was held that:

"In a rei vindicatio proper the owner of immovable property is

entitled, on proof of his title, to a decree in his favour for the

recovery, of the property and for the ejectment of the person in

wrongful occupation. 'The plaintiffs ownership of the thing is of the

very essence of the action'. Maasdorp's Institutes (7th ed.) vol 2, 96."

[emphasis added]

In D. R. KIRIAMMA Vs J.A.PODIBANDA and 8 others [2005 B L R

at 09] The Supreme Court held thus:

((Onus probandi or the burden of proving possession is on the party

claiming prescriptive possession. Importantly, prescription is a question

of fact. Physical possession is a factum probandum. Considerable

circumspection is necessary to recognize prescriptive title as undoubtedly

it deprives the ownership of the party having paper title. Title by

prescription is an illegality made legal due to the other party not taking

action. It is to be reiterated that in Sri Lanka prescriptive title is required

to be by a title adverse to and independent to that of a claimant or

plaintiff "When a party invokes the provisions of Section 3 of the

Prescription Ordinance in order to defeat the ownership of an

5

I!

adverse claimant to immovable p,·operty the burden of proof rests

fairly on him to establish a starting point for his or her

acquisition of prescriptive rights."

[emphasis added]

As decided in the foregoing judicial pronouncements, it is clear that the

primary duty of the trial Judge in this instance too, is to ascertain whether

the plaintiff has discharged the burden casts upon him by proving his title to

the land (lot "H") referred to in the 1 st schedule to the amended plaint dated

21.10.91.

The case for the plaintiff is briefly as follows. Consequent upon the

decree entered in the case 15756jP filed in the District Court in Galle, one

Rosalin de Silva became entitled to Lot "G" referred to in the decree entered in

that case. Rosalin de Silva's entitlement had devolved to Nissanka Wijeratne

and he has transferred this Lot "G" to Thesin Fernando. Said Thesin

Fernando has transferred the land to Gnanawathie and she has transferred it

to the plaintiff, namely Nilenti Sirisena. The aforesaid chain of title to lot "G"

has not been disputed by the 1 st defendant.

The plaintiff has produced title deeds marked PI to P6 in evidence to

show that he became entitled to lot "G" and not to lot "H" though he claims

claims title to lot "H" in this case. However, the plaintiff has taken up the

position that his predecessors-in-title had possessed Lot "H" even though his

6

entitlement is to the lot "G". Hence, his position is that his predecessors in

title had possessed lot "H" instead of lot "G" to which he became entitled by

-executing the aforesaid deeds commencing from the decree entered in

15756/P.

Indeed, the case of the plaintiff has proceeded basically on the issue

No.2, where he has claimed title to the disputed lot "H" on the basis of

prescription and not to lot "G". In the circumstances, the issue in this case

is to determine whether the plaintiff has established prescriptive title to Lot

"H" in terms of Section 3 of the Prescription Ordinance which provision in

law entitles a person to acquire title to imr~lOvable property. Said Section 3

requires to have undisturbed and uninterrupted possession, for a period of 10

years or more adverse to the rights of the others who claim rights to the land

in order to claim prescriptive rights.

Then the issue is to determine as to the kind of possession that is

necessary or as to the manner in which the possession had been held by a

person who claims prescriptive rights under Section 3 of the Prescription

Ordinance. This issue had been dealt with in many cases including that of:

SIRAJUDEEN AND TWO OTHERS Vs ABBAS [1994 (2) S L R 365]

And

M. RASIAH Vs I. SOMAPALA [Court of Appeal] [2008 B L R at page 226]

7

In the case of SIRAJUDEEN AND TWO OTHERS v. ABBAS [supra] G. P.

S. DE SILVA, C.J. said;

((As regards the mode of proof of prescriptive possession, mere general

statements of witnesses that the plaintiff possessed the land in dispute

for a number of years exceeding the prescriptive period are not evidence

of the uninterrupted and adverse possession necessary to support a title

by prescription. It is necessary that the witnesses should speak to

specific facts and the question of possession has to be decided thereupon

by Court."

In RASIAH Vs SOMAPALA [supra] it was held:

((Where a party invokes the provisions of Section 3 of the Prescription

Ordinance in order to defeat the ownership of an adverse claimant to

immovable property, the burden of proof rests squarely and fairly on him

to establish a starting point for his or her acquisition of prescriptive

rights." ((As regards the mode of proof of prescriptive possession, mere

general statements of witnesses as to possession are not evidence of the

uninterrupted and adverse possession necessary to support a title by

prescription. It is necessary that the witnesses should speak to specific

facts and the question of possession has to be decided thereupon by

Court. "

Having referred to the law as to the possession that is necessary to

claim prescriptive rights, I will now turn to consider whether the plaintiff was

8 I

II!I ; i

successful in bringing such evidence in this instance to claim rights under

Section 3 of the Prescription Ordinance.

The plaintiff has purchased this property by the deed bearing No.32427

marked P6 on 15.02.1985, which date show that his entitlement to the land

became into existence, only about one and half years before the filing of this

action. Subsequent to the purchase of the land by the plaintiff in the year

1985, there had been an application made under Section 66 of the Primary

Court Procedure Act filed by the O.I.C. of the Elpitiya Police on 20.10.1986,

referring both parties to Court on a dispute arose affecting the land in

question. It shows that there had been disruptions to the land been

possessed by the plaintiff shortly after he bought the land. The said

application made to court under Section 66 of the Primary Court Procedure

Act has been marked as P9 in evidence. Thereafter another dispute has

arisen between the parties when the plaintiff attempted to build a house on

the land and it has resulted filing this action.

Therefore, it is seen that there had been clear disturbances to the

possession of the land been possessed by the plaintiff from the time he

purchased this property. Those incidents would definitely be a bar to claim

undisturbed possession of the plaintiff which is a sine qua non in terms of

Section 3 of the Prescription Ordinance.

9

, li i II

f t I

I

tII

t i ,I [

~ ,

I

f i ! I , I I I I

t l

rr l

j 1 I 1 However, the plaintiff in his evidence has stated that his predecessors-

in-title had been in possession of this land over a period of 10 years. [vide

proceedings at page 232 in the appeal brief]. Accordingly, he claimed that he

is entitled to have the possession of his predecessors be reckoned in deciding

the period of possession.

Even though, he has merely stated that he and his predecessors were

in possession of the land, he has failed to show the manner in which they

held possession of this land. He has not stated as to any plantation that he

or his predecessors in title has made even though the land presently consists

of cinnamon plantation and paddy cultivation. In short, no evidence is

forthcoming as to the way in which he possessed the land.

His immediate predecessor-in-title namely, Gnanawathie who resides

far away from the place where the land in question is situated has stated in

her evidence-in-chief that one Thesin Fernando had been working on her

behalf on this land. Once again, the manner in which the possession was

held either by her or by Thesin had not been explained. She also has failed to

state that the type of work Thesin had been doing on the land. Gnanawathie

under cross-examination has stated that Thesin was her ande cultivator and

has also stated that he is alive at the time of her giving evidence. However,

Thesin was not called to give evidence. In the circumstances, it is clear that

10

I

t If

~ I If I

1 i i I I If ! i II t

I

I I I

the evidence as to the possession of the plaintiff to this land is very much

inadequate to claim prescriptive title.

Moreover, as opposed to the evidence recorded on behalf of the plaintiff,

the 1 st defendant in her evidence has stated that she had been in possession

of this land since the year 1959. The house found on this land where she

lives had been built in the year 1954. She has further stated that she was in

possession of the all three Lots marked HI, H2 and H3 in the Plan bearing

No.460 drawn by C.T.de.S.Manukulasuriya, Licensed Surveyor without being

disturbed by anybody since the year 1959. [vide proceedings at pages 320 &

321 in the appeal briej]. The said evidence of the 1st defendant had not been

contradicted. Hence, such evidence also should have been considered when

determining the claim of the plaintiff.

In the circumstances, it is clear that the plaintiff has failed to establish

continuous and uninterrupted possession for over 10 years to claim title to

the land referred to in the 1 st schedule to the amended plaint. Therefore, it is

my opinion that the plaintiff is not entitled to claim rights under Section 3 of

the Prescription Ordinance.

At this stage, it is necessary to note that the learned District Judge

seems to have misunderstood the law by heavily relying upon the title deeds

of the plaintiff to decide prescriptive rights claimed by him. Such a contention

is evident by the following paragraph found in the impugned judgment.

11

!

\Ii

~ I

I

J I I I

! I

1

S~t))C) ~®cl 5036l®C) ®®~&tD qa&~cl ®~)®z& Q)z5~ oz.3 3)) qotD 1919

~OS9 wdg®t)~ 503®€J®C) ®®~&tD qa&~cl ®~)®z& ii)t) 06t)z~ 5ofdStDoz

®t)~®t)~ ~clE)) qzO). "

[Vide proceedings at page 391 in the appeal brief]

Furthermore, the learned District Judge was of the VIew that the

plaintiff is entitled to claim prescriptive rights when he holds title to the land.

[vide proceedings at page 392 in the appeal brief].

Therefore, it is seen that the learned District Judge in this instance has

failed to correctly identify the issue and the applicable law thereto. Also, he

seems to have completely disregarded the duty casts upon the plaintiff to

prove his case. Also, it is seen that the he has imposed a duty on the 1st

defendant to prove her possession though she has not claimed prescriptive

title to the land. His view on this aspect is as follows:

12

[ Vide proceedings at page 395 in the appeal brief].

In the circumstances, it is seen that the learned District Judge has

misdirected himself as to the law in relation to the burden of proof in a rei

vindicati action. As mentioned hereinbefore, clearly there is no sufficient

evidence to establish long standing physical possession of the plaintiff for him

to claim prescriptive title to this land under Section 3 of the Prescription

Ordinance.

For the aforesaid reasons, the judgment dated 26.03.1988 of the

learned District Judge of Balapitiya is set aside. The amended plaint dated

21. 10. 1991 of the plaintiff is to stand dismissed. Learned District Judge,

Balapitiya is directed to enter decree accordingly.

The 1st defendant is entitled to the costs of this appeal. However, since

no evidence is available to award damages to the 1 st defendant she will not be

entitled to the reliefs that she has prayed for in her amended answer dated

04.05.1992.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

13 III