==== BLOCKS ==== 

•

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for a

mandate in the nature of a writ of Certiorari

under and in terms of Article 140 of the

Constitution.

*******

t.A. (Writ) Application No. 408/2011

1

1. HA.J. Fonseka

12/ A/3, Othara Road,

Waradala, Mellawagedara.

2. N.K. Chandra Mangalika

12/ A/3, Othara Road,

Waradala, Mellawagedara.

3. Sahan Premesh Fonseka

12/ A/3, Othara Road,

Waradala, Mellawagedara.

PETITIONERS

Vs

1. Minister of Lands

Ministry of Lands

"Govijana Mandiraya"

80/5, Rajamalwatte Road

Battaramulla.

2. Divisional Secretary

Divulapitiya.

,

\

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

Deepali Wijesundera J.

3. Sarika Dhananjani

No. 33, Mellawagedara

Divulapitiya.

4. The Road

Authority

Sethsiripaya

Battaramulla.

Development

RESPONDENTS

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

: Thushani Machado for the

Petitioners.

Yuresha Fernando for the

Respondents.

: 06th June, 2014

: Ogth October, 2015

The petitioners are seeking a writ of certiorari to quash an order

made by the first respondent marked as P7. The petitioners are the

owner of Lot 3 in plan' no. 421 marked as P2. In year 2008 the

petitioners land as well as the adjoining lands were surveyed for

2

widening of the Pannala-Mellawagedra Road by the fourth respondent.

A letter dated 05/10/2010 has been sent to the first petitioner under Sec.

38 (A) of the Land Acquisition Act requesting them to handover vacant

possession of the land to the state, which has been sent after the

publication of the Sec. 7 notice in the Gazette bearing No. 1454110

dated 18/07/2006 (P5). The petitioners claimed that they had no notice

of the said publication. The petitioners' land is depicted as Lot 1: 146 and

1:147 in plan No. KG 510033 mentioned in the Gazette notification.

Petitioners also claimed they have not been served with a Sec. 38 A

notice either.

The learned counsel for the petitioners stated that the

respondents failed to adhere to the procedure set out in Sec. 2 and 4 of

the Land Acquisition Act.

The petitioners argued, to acquire a land for development the

state had to reveal the public purpose for which the land is to be

acquired there is no public purpose disclosed in 2R13 (a). The

petitioners further stated that they had no knowledge of the acquisition

until they received the document marked P4.

3

,

The first and second respondents in their objections and oral

submissions stated that the land is to be acquired for a public purpose

which can not be obstructed and that the public purpose is disclosed by

2R3 (a) (1) and (3). The argument of the first and second respondents

was that they have given Sec. 2 notice to the petitioners and also Sec.

38 (1) notice was also sent and the delay caused by the petitioners by

not handing over possession of the land has caused irrepressible loss to

the respondents.

On perusal of documents 2R13 and 2R13 A it is evident that the

section two notices were sent to the relevant Grama Niladari by the

second respondent to be served on the parties. On perusal of 2R14 it is

evident that the Grama Niladari has fixed the notices at the Grama

Niladari's office and at the sub post office. These two places are not

situated within the petitioner's land. Therefore does it amount to section

two noticed been served on the petitioners Sec. 2 (1) states;

2 (1). Where the Minister decides that land in any area is needed

lor any public purposel he may direct the acquiring officer

01 the district in which that area lies to cause a notice in

accordance with subsection (2) to be exhibited in some

conspicuous places in the area.

4

I 1 ~ 1 \ ! ,

The section states the notice to be exhibited in some conspicuous

place in the area. The Grama Niladari Office and the sub post officer are

public places but in this day where everything is done by electronic

media one has a doubt, whether the parties visited these places any

more. Therefore the petitioner's statement that they were unaware of a

Sec. 2 notice can be accepted. 2R13 stated the land is to be acquired

for a public purpose but does not reveal what the public purpose is in

Manel Fernando vs. D.M. Jayaratne Minister of Lands 2000 (1) SLR

112. Mark Fernando J, has stated that the Minister had to disclose the

public purpose.

Document marked P4 which refers to Sec. 38 (A) and which the

respondents stated is a Sec. 38 (A) notice to hand over possession of

the land refer to a document earlier sent to the petitioners dated

27/09/2010 which the petitioners stated they did not receive. The

respondents failed to show this court it was not so.

On perusal of documents marked and submitted to court and also

the submissions made it can be seen that the respondents have not

acted according to Sec. 2 and 38 (a) of the Land Acquisition Ordinance.

Sec. 2 notices have not been sent to the petitioners and in the notice

filed by the respondents does not reveal a public purpose. The mere

5

statement that the land is required for a public purpose is not enough,

the person who owns the land has a right to know for what public

purpose his land is been taken over by the state.

The road expansion has already been concluded according to

photograph submitted to court by the petitioners for which the

respondents did not object therefore it can not be said that irrepressible

loss is caused to the state.

For the afore stated reason this court decides to grant relief

prayed for in prayer (b) of the petition. The petitioners' application for

writ of certiorari allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

6