==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA. No. 118/98(F) D. C. Kurunegala Case No: 4965/M

Keangnam Enterprises Limited 221/3, Pannipitiya Road, Battaramulla. Presently at No: 815 E. W.Perera Mawatha, Etul Kotte, Sri Jayawardenapura

Defendant-Appellant Vs. Karunaratne Wijesekera Koralegedara Kohilagedara

Plaintiff - Respondent

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL

OF THE DEMCORA TIC SOCIAIJ:ST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 118/98 F D.C Kurunegala 4965/M

BEFORE K. T. CHITRASIRI, J.

COUNSEL Deeptha Perera for the Defendant-Appellant

Plaintiff -Respondent is absent and unrepresented ARGUED &

DECIDED ON 05.03.2014

K. T. CHITRASIRI J.

The Registrar of this Court has sent notices dated 12.12.2013 under

registered cover to the Plaintiff-Respondent and to his Attorney-at-Law

informing them to collect the appeal brief and also to be present in this Court

on 20.01.2014. The Plaintiff-Respondent has not responded to the said notice.

There had been several notices sent even before the aforesaid notices, directing

the respondent to be present in this Court. He has not responded to those

notices either. Therefore, this matter is taken up for argument in the absence

of the Plaintiff-Respondent.

A motion had been filed movmg to file a new proxy on behalf of the

appellant and to have its earlier proxy revoked. An affidavit deposed to by Do

Hee Kim who supposed to be a representative of the Plaintiff-Company has

I I

\ I! f I I! !

~

2

been filed with the said motion and in that affidavit it is stated that the

Attorney Neluka Mahinkanda who has filed the earlier proxy has left the

country. Acting upon the said evidence contained-in the affidavit, Court makes

an order revoking the proxy given to Neluka Mahinkanda and accordingly

Court accepts the new proxy of O.T. Abeynayake Attorney-at-Law on behalf of

the appellant.

Counsel for the Appellant submits that the leaned District Judge in his

judgment which is being impugned by filing this appeal has decided that the

second and the third causes of action have not been established by the

plaintiff-respondent. He further submits that the judgment delivered in favour

of the respondent is only in respect of the first cause of action. He then

submits that the learned District Judge is in error when he awarded Rs.

125,000/- for the first cause of action when the claim for the said cause of

action made by the Plaintiff -Respondent is only for a sum of Rs. 25,000/ -. He,

therefore submits that he will not argue the appeal on its merits if the

judgment against the appellant is restricted to a sum of Rs. 25,000/- since it is

the amount prayed for in the plaint for the first cause of action.

This is an appeal to have the judgment dated 09.12.1997 of the learned

District Judge of Kurunegala set aside. In that judgment learned trial judge has

declined to grant relief for the second and the third causes of action alleged to

have accrued to the respondent. There is no appeal filed challenging the said

decision.

3

In the impugned judgment, learned Judge has awarded a sum of Rs.

125,000/- for the first cause of action alone. However, in paragraph 15 of the

plaint dated 06.09.1993 the Plaintiff -Respondent has prayed only for a sum of

Rs. 25,000/- for the first cause of action. It is in the same manner that the

issues of the respondent also have been raised. It is evident by the point of

contest raised in the issue No: 11 and it is to have damages in terms of the

prayer to the plaint. [vide proceedings at page 57 in the appeal brief],

In the circumstances, it is clear that the Plaintiff-Respondent has limited

his claim to a sum of Rs. 25,000/- for the first cause of action which is the only

cause of action decided in favour of the respondent. In such a situation,

learned District Judge should not have awarded damages in a sum, more than

the amount prayed for by the Plaintiff. Therefore, it is wrong to have awarded

Rs.125,000 / - as damages for the first cause of action. Accordingly, this Court

makes an order varying the amount of damages awarded to the Plaintiff -

Respondent limiting it to Rs. 25,000/-.

Subject to the above variation as to the amount of damages awarded by

the learned District Judge this appeal is dismissed. Learned District Judge is

directed to enter decree accordingly. No costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Vkg/-