==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA. (Writ) No: 350/2012

V.P.M.G.R.Shantha Kumara, No: 354/26, Muhandiram, Samarakoone Mawatha, Gonewella, Kalaniya

Petitioner Vs. Chairman, Public Service Commission, No: 177, Nawala Road, Narahenpita, Colombo 05. 9A. Kanthi Wijethunga, Member, Public Service Commission, No: 177, Nawala Road, Narahenpita, Colombo 05. Sunil S. Siarisena Member Public Service Commission, No: 177, Nawala Road, Narahenpita, Colombo 05. I.N.Zoysa Gunasekara, Member, Public Service Commission, No: 177, Nawala Road, Narahenpita, Colombo 05.

Respondents

I 1 j i I 1 I I l ,

I I 1 I

~

1 I i ! I i I I I I

~

CA Writ No.350/2012.

Before

CouDsel

Decided OD

K. T .Chitrasiri. J

K.T.Chitrasiri, J &

L. T.B.Dehideniya, J

L.M.K. Arulanandan P.C. with

S.S.Wettamuni for the Petitioner.

Shaheeda Bareie, SSC for the

Respondents.

16.06.2015.

Admittedly, the inquiry before the Administrative Appeals Board

.~ had been considered before three members of the Tribunal namely

Justices N.E.Dissanayake, Andrew Somawansa and Mr. Edmond

Jayasuriya on the 22.05.2012. On that date, both parties have made

their submissions orally in support of their respective cases.

Thereafter it was fIxed for order to be delivered on 28.08.2012. In the

meantime, Andrew Somawansa, J has ceased to hold office and he was

replaced by Mr.E. Jindasa as a member of the Tribunal.

The above circumstances show that the inquiry as to the

application by the Petitioner had been held before 3 members of the

Commission comprising Justices N .E. Dissanayake, Andrew

t

,

2

Somawansa and Mr.Edmond Jayasuriya. Section 2 of the

Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act No.4 of 2002 stipulates that the

Administrative Appeals Tribunal shall consist of three members.

The circumstances of this case show that when the order in

respect of this application was pronounced, one of the members who

heard the application has ceased to hold office. Moreover, in the final

decision of the Tribunal which had been signed by the Chairman of the

Tribunal (A5), it is stated that the order had been pronounced only by

two members namely, N.E. Dissanayake, J and Mr.Edmond

Jayasuriya. Therefore it is apparent that the Tribunal did not consist

of three members at the time the order was made and pronounced

since Andrew Somawansa J before whom the matter was argued had

ceased to function as a member by then.

Considering the above circumstances, it is clear that the

Tribunal did not consist of three members as required by Section 2 of

the Act No.4 of 2002 at the time the order was made. Those matters

are not being disputed by either party.

I

I

l

3

Having considered those matters, learned President's Counsel

for the Petitioner moves that this matter be sent back for re-trial.

Learned State Counsel has no objection to this application.

Accordingly, we make order to have this matter referred back to the

Administrative Appeals Tribunal to conduct a fresh inquiry on the

original appeal made to the tribunal by the document dated

13.01.2012 marked as A2 filed with the petition.

In the circumstances, we set aside the impugned order dated

28.08.2012. Administrative Appeals Tribunal is directed to hold a

fresh inquiry on the appeal dated 13.01.2012. Accordingly, this appeal

is allowed subject to the above conditions.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

L.T.B.Dehideniya, J

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

LWM/-