==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

C.A No: 180/2004

H.C Colombo Case No:

HCB 769/96

In the matter of an appeal in terms of

Section 331 of the Criminal Procedure

Act No: 15 of 1979.

1. Thalangama Mahapathiranage

Ranjith Pathirana.

2. Hettiarachchige Titus

Karunathilake Logus

Accused -Appellant.

Vs.

The Hon. Attorney - General,

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

Respondent.

Before Rohini Marasinghe, J and

Sarath De Abrew, J.

- 2 -

Counsel Dr. Ranjith Fernando for the 1 st and 2nd

Accused - Appellants.

Sarath Jayamanne D.S.G for the Respondent.

Argued on 09.09.2009.

Written Submissions

Tendered on

Decided on

Sarath De Abrew J.

25.11.2009.

15.05.2012.

The first and second Accused -Appellants (2nd and 3rd

Accused) along with the 1 st Accused in the case, were indicted on

two counts in the High Court of Colombo on the basis of joint

possession of heroine. Count 1 related to possession of 4.2 grams

and count 2 related to possession of 1 gram under section 54(a)(c)

of the Opium Poisons and Dangerous Drugs Ordinance.

The 1 st Accused passed away during the course of the trial

which proceeded against the 2nd and 3rd Accused, the 1 st and 2nd

Accused-Appellants. After trial, both Accused-Appellants were

convicted on count Oland 02 and sentenced to life imprisonment on

count 01 and 03 years Rigorous Imprisonment and a fine of Rs.

- 3 -

15,000/- each on count 02 respectively. Being aggrieved of the

above conviction and sentence the 1 st and 2nd Accused-Appellants

have preferred this appeal to this court.

The learned Counsel for the Accused-Appellants, in his initial

written submissions urged a ground of appeal that it would be

unsafe to sustain the conviction in view of the uncontroverted

evidence of the 1 st Accused-Appellant (2nd Accused) on oath in the

light of the improbability of the 2nd Accused-Appellant ( 3rd Accused)

escaping at the time of the raid. However, the learned counsel for

the Appellant filed a subsequent written submission, confining his

appeal to the question of sentence and urged that, in the event of

the this court upholding the conviction of the Accused - Appellants,

the sentences imposed be made operative from the date of the

conviction, namely 10th November 2004, while citing several

authorities to support the submission that even a sentence of life

imprisonment could be back dated to be effective from the date of

conviction.

The learned D.S.G. too filed written submissions on the issue

of probability of the prosecution version and the improbability of the

evidence of the 2nd Accused (the 1 st Accused Appellant) from the

witness box and supported the conviction and sentence.

- 4 -

The facts briefly are as follows. The raid was conducted on

information received by a team of police officers of Kelaniya Police on

05.03.1994 on a partly constructed desolate house in Pethiyagoda,

Ke1aniya. The owner Justin Perera, has given evidence that he had

not visited the house for a few months and it had been closed. The

raid was conducted around 1.45 a.m. on the day in question by I.P.

Rohan Prasanna and I.P. Nimal and a team of police officers. The 1st

and 2nd Accused were apprehended inside the house while the 3rd

accused escaped through a side door in the darkness, but later

surrendered to court. The 1 st Accused was arrested along with 35

packets of heroine while the 2nd Accused was arrested with 30

packets of heroine. A polythene cover containing heroine had been

recovered from the place the 3rd Accused was seated along with his

purse containing his identity card and driving licence.

The 2nd Accused (1 st Accused-Appellant) had gIven evidence

from the witness box and has taken up a position almost compatible

with the prosecution version. He deviated from the prosecution

version only in respect of what he was doing at the time of the

detection and had claimed he was fast asleep when he was

apprehended by the police. The 2nd Accused (1 st Accused-Appellant)

had implicated the 3rd Accused (2nd Accused-Appellant) who had

- 5 -

not challenged the evidence of the 2nd Accused. The 3rd Accused (

2nd Accused-Appellant) had made a dock statement admitting he is

addicted to heroine and his personal belongings had been found at

the house which was raided due to the reason he had pledged them

to obtain heroine for his consumption.

We have carefully perused the evidence led at the trial and the

judgment of the learned Trial Judge. In the light of the evidence led

at the trial, we see no merit in the initial contention raised by the

appellants as to the improbability of the prosecution version and

the circumstances leading to the escape of the 3rd Accused (2nd

Accused -Appellant). Therefore we are of the view that there are no

sufficient grounds to interfere with the conviction on counts 01 and

02 as regards the 01 st and 2nd Accused-appellants.

The learned Counsel for the Appellants cited the following

authorities and urged court to back date the life sentences to be

effective from the date of the conviction.

S.C. Spl /L.A No; 14/2002 - S.N. Silva C.J.

C.A 208/96 (Decided on 24.02.1999) -F.N.D Jayasuriya J.

C.A 40/98 (Decided on 19.07.1999) - F.N.D. Jayasuriya J.

- 6 -

In the light of the above, we affirm the conviction and

sentences imposed on the 01 st and 2nd Accused Appellants by the

learned High Court Judge of Colombo on 08.11.2004 and make

further order that the life imprisonment terms imposed on the

appellants be effective and operative from the date of conviction

with the period spent in remand since the date of conviction being

set off against such prison terms. Subject to the above variation, the

conviction and sentences are affirmed.

Subject to the above, the appeal is dismissed.

OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

I agree.

Rohini Marasinghe J.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

WC/-