==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

Parana Palliyage Ajith, Sirithilaka Mawatha, Weliwatte, Ahangama.

C.A.Appeal No.127 /2009 Accused-Appellant

H.C.Galle No. HC 2547/2005 vs.

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

Sisira de Abrew, J,

Hon. Attorney-General, Attorney-General's Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

Sisira de Abrew, J.

P.W.D.C.Jayathilake, J.

Jagath Abeynayake for the Accused-Appellant

Shanil Kularatne SSC for the Attorney-General.

28.02.2013

The accused-appellant produced by Prison Authorities is present in

Court.

I

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted for raping a girl named

Ruwini Kumari who was under 16 years of age. Learned trial Judge sentenced

him to a term of 15 years rigorous imprisonment, to a pay a fine of Rs.10,000/-

carrying a default sentence of 3 years simple imprisonment and to pay a sum of

Rs.150,000/- as compensation to the victim carrying a default sentence of 5 years

simple imprisonment. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and sentence the

accused-appellant has appealed to this Court. The facts of this case may be

briefly summarized as follows:-

The accused-appellant who was having a love affair with the victim in this

case, on day of the incident, came to the house of the victim and committed

sexual intercourse on her. The victim was under the age of 16 years at that time.

She admitted that she consented to the act of sexual intercourse. Since the victim

was under 16 years of age, proving the fact that sexual intercourse was done

without her consent is not necessary. The accused-appellant in his evidence

denied the incident.

2

The only point raised by the learned Counsel for the appellant is that the

prosecution evidence cannot be relied upon since there was a delay in making

her statement to the police. The delay was about 7 days. She has not been

questioned at the trial about the delay. After the incident, she has consumed

medicine that had been given to her grand mother. As a result of consuming the

said medicine she started vomiting and was later admitted to the hospital. She

has discharged from the hospital after three days. When we consider the

evidence it is correct to say that there was a delay of about 7 days in making a

statement to the police. But should the Court disregard her evidence on the basis

of delay?. We note that her evidence has been corroborated by medical evidence.

I now advert to this position. According to the medico legal report there was a

tear in her hymen. According to the doctor there was evidence suggesting recent

penetration and this penetration has taken place within 10 days of the

examination by the doctor. Thus, it is clear that the evidence of the victim has

been corroborated by the medical evidence. In these circumstances, I feel that the

delay in making a statement to the police is not vital and that the delay has not

shaken the truthfulness of the story. I therefore reject the submission of the

Counsel for accused-appellant that the evidence of the victim cannot be relied

upon on the ground of delay. Soon after the act of rape the accused has slapped

her and said that he would not marry her. He has further requested her to jump

into a train. We have considered the evidence in this case. In our opinion, the

prosecution has proved the case beyond reasonable doubt. We therefore affirm

3

the conviction. We note that the default sentence imposed by the learned trial

Judge in respect of non payment of the amount of compensation (Rs.150,000/ -)is

illegal. According to Section 364(4) of the Penal Code as amended by Act No.22

of 1995 the maximum default sentence that can be imposed in respect of non

payment of compensation is 2 years. But the learned Trial Judge has imposed

default sentence of 5 years. We set aside the said default sentence of 5 years in

respect of the non payment of compensation and impose 2 years imprisonment

in default of amount of compensation (Rs.150,000/ -). Learned trial Judge has

imposed 3 years default sentence in default of the fine of Rs.10,000j -. The

maximum default sentence that can be imposed in respect of non payment of

compensation is 2 years. Therefore imposing a default sentence of 3 years in

respect of non payment of the fine of Rs.10,000/- is unreasonable. We therefore

set aside the said default sentence of 3 years as well and impose a default

sentence of six months imprisonment in respect of the non payment of the fine of

RsJO,OOO/ -. We affirm the term of fifteen years rigorous imprisonment imposed

by the learned trial Judge.

Both Counsel admit that the accused-appellant has not been released on

bail after conviction. We direct the Prison Authorities to implement the sentence

from the date of conviction (01.04.2009)

4

Learned High Court Judge is directed to issue a fresh committal indicting

the sentence imposed by this Court.

Appeal dismissed.

P.W.D.C.Jayathilake, I

I agree.

KLP/-

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

5