==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA(PHC) 127/2003 (F)

PHC Anuradhapura:.Rev 17/2000 MC Kekirawa No:94214

1. Basnayaka Mudiyanse1age Herath Banda 2. Bernin Wimalawathi

Both of 8/9, Narangaswewa, Dewahuwa.

01 st Party Vs.

1. Weerasinghe Mudiyanselage Mayurapala 2. Lekamlage Wasantha Malkanthi

Both of Narangaswewa, Dewahuwa.

02nd Party AND 1 . Weerasinghe M udiyanselage Mayurapala 2. Lekamlage Wasantha Malkanthi

Both of Narangaswewa, Dewahuwa.

02nd Party-Petitioner Vs.

1. Basnayaka Mudiyanselage Herath Banda 2. Bernin Wimalawathi

Both of 8/9, Narangaswewa, Dewahuwa.

01 st Party-Respondent

AND NOW BETWEEN

1. Basnayaka Mudiyanselage Herath Banda 2. Bernin Wimalawathi

Both of 8/9, Narangaswewa, Dewahuwa.

01 st Party-Respondent-Appellant

Vs.

1. Weerasinghe Mudiyanselage Mayurapala 2. Lekamlage Wasantha Malkanthi

Both of Narangaswewa, Dewahuwa.

02nd Party-Petitioner-Respondent.

BEFORE : A.W.A. Salam, J &

Sunil Rajapakshe, J. COUNSEL: Chandana Premathilake for the 1 st Party-Respondent-Appellant. DECIDED ON : 31.07.2013

A W A Salam, J

This appeal is from the Judgement of the learned High

Court Judge setting aside the determination of the learned

Magistrate acting in his capacity as the Judge of the

Primary Court. The facts relevant to the appeal briefly are

that the OlC of the relevant police station reported to the

Magistrate of a land dispute between the parties and moved

for an order under Section 81 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure Act, No 15 of 1979. The learned Magistrate

thereupon directed the police to file a report under Section

66 of the Primary Court Procedure Act which direction was

duly complied with. Thereafter, the learned Magistrate

having exercised jurisdiction over the dispute in terms of

the Provisions contained in chapter VII of the Primary Court

Procedure Act, made a determination that the 01 st party-

respondent-appellant was in possession of premises No

8/9, Narangaswewa, Dewahuwa and been forcibly

o o o ~ r--

2

dispossessed by the 02nd Party-Petitioner-Respondent

within two months immediately before the date on which

the information was filed. Based on the above finding the

learned Magistrate made order under Section 68 (3) of the

Primary Court Procedure Act in favour of the 1 st party-

respondent-appellant.

Noticeably, the learned Magistrate had been well aware that

the police had originally filed the report under Section 81 of

the Code of Criminal Procedure Act. Then the court had

observed that the dispute is one that falls under the

Provisions of the Primary Court Procedure Act and therefore

directed to file a report in terms of Section 66 of that Act.

Upon being so directed, the police acting in compliance with

the direction filed the second report setting out facts in

compliance with Section 66 of the Primary Court Procedure

Act.

Apparently, the dispute between the parties as reported by

police was a complaint of dispossession of a Paddy field and

not a dispute as to the tenancy rights of the field. Therefore

the learned Magistrate had plenary jurisdiction to entertain

the report and generally to follow up the procedure to

resolve the dispute.

As has been decided In the case of David Appuhamy v.

Yassasi Thero (1987) 1 SLR 253, when an information is

filed by the police, the Judge of the Primary Court is vested

with jurisdiction to inquire into the dispute referred to in

the report and make a valid order as contemplated under

Section 68 or 69 of the relevant Act. Quite significantly,

'<t

N '<t ~

0 Z

ctl ~ ctl .~ ..;.:

11) ~ u ~

0 0 0 N ---t' -> 11) ~

O:i .... :::l P.. ctl ..r:: "0

ctl .... :::l I:: <t: U ::r:: p..

-----(..L.. '-' M 0 0 N ---t' N ------u ::r:: p.. '-' <t: U 3

i

1

1I I , Ii I !

i II, ! !I! , i I1II t,f,

i i

~.,r,,

~

~,f

~,

I. I •,It!ftI

~i,I

none of the parties to the proceedings in the lower court

raised any objection to the Judge of the Primary Court

exercising jurisdiction on the report filed by police. As such

it is abundantly clear that the parties had in no uncertain

terms submitted themselves to the jurisdiction of the court

and they are now precluded from raising any jurisdictional

objection based on the Provisions of Section 39 of the

Judicature Act.

In the light of Section 39 of the Judicature Act, it is quite

clear that the respondents by not having raised any such

objection to the jurisdiction are now bound by the order of

the learned Magistrate and they are prevented from raising

any such objection.

However, the 2nd party-petitioner-respondent having made a

revision application to the High Court of the Province to

challenge the propriety of the order of the learned

Magistrate, the learned Judge of the High Court set aside

the same and made order to hand over possession of the

subject matter to the 2nd party-petitioner-respondent by his

Judgment dated 28 August, 2002.

The learned High Court Judge having entertained the

revision application held inter alia that the learned Judge

of the Primary Court has misdirected himself in granting

relief to the appellant and the learned Magistrate could not

have acted under Chapter VII of the Primary Court

Procedure Act. The High Court Judge further held that the

Magistrate Court could not have acted under Section 66 of

o o o ~ r--

4

the Primary Courts Procedure Act as the first report had

been filed under Section 81 of the Criminal Procedure Code.

Apart from the failure on the part of the 2nd party-petitioner

respondent to raise the jurisdictional objection, he has also

failed to raise the question relating to the validity of the 2nd

report filed by the police on the direction of the learned

Magistrate. The appellant has submitted that there was no

conversion of Section 81 proceedings into a Section 66

proceedings. What really has taken place is that the police

had filed a fresh report setting out the land dispute under

Section 66 instead of the original report.

It is to be noted that subsequent to the filing of the 2nd

report by the police, all proceedings had been taken under

Section 66 of Primary Courts Procedure Act with the

participation of both parties. Since this is an objection

affecting the jurisdiction of the court it should have been

taken at the earliest opportunity and the 02nd Party-

petitioner-respondent not having done so is now precluded

from raising the jurisdictional objection late in the day.

On the other hand when the police filed X2 under Section

66 of the Primary Courts Procedure Act the original Court

was vested with jurisdiction by virtue of Section 66(2) of the

Primary Court Procedure Act. This position has been

clearly laid down in the case of David Appuhamy v. Yassasi

Thero (1987) 1 SLR 253, Velupillai and Others v.

Sivananthan (1993) 1 SLR 123 & Punchi Nona v.

Padumasena and Another (1994) 2 SLR 117)

o o o l:::! r--

G ::r:: 0.. ~ U 5

In the case of Arlis v. Abeynayake (1980) 2 SLR 84) it was

laid down that the breach of the peace is likely does not

mean that the breach of the peace would ensue for

certainty; rather, it means that the breach of the peace is a

result such as might well happen or occur or is sometimes

that is, so to speak, on the cards (vide Iqubal v.

Majedudeen (1993) 3 SLR 213.)

On the contrary the objectives of Section 81 of the Criminal

Procedure Code are totally different. It states inter alia that

(( Whenever a Magistrate receives information that any

person is likely to commit a breach of the peace ........... .

may .... require such person to show cause why he should

not be ordered to execute a bond with or without sureties for

keeping the peace for such period ..... "

The Learned High Court Judge has also held that the

Learned Magistrate had erred in dealing with the paddy

land as it had not been referred to in the first police report

and set aside the order of the Magistrate.

According to Mansoor and Another v. OIC Avissawella

Police and Others (1991) 2 SLR 75 no Primary Court is

vested in jurisdiction to entertain a land dispute under

Section 66 of the Act, touching upon the tenancy rights of a

paddy field. As far as the dispute referred to the Primary

Court by the 2nd report is concerned, the dispute being the

right to possession and not the right relating to the tenancy

of a paddy field, the judge of the Primary Court

undoubtedly had jurisdiction to go into the dispute and

make an appropriate order.

o o o ~ r--

6

The other ground urged by the learned counsel for the

appellant was that no exceptional circumstances had been

urged or established to assail the order/determination of

the learned Magistrate.

Justice H S Yapa in the case of Jayantha Fernando Vs.

Joseph Francis CA Application No.103/86 held that "The

Primary object here (i.e. Part VII of the Primary Court

Procedure Act) is to prevent a breach of the peace. Once a

decision is made by the Primary Court Judge such a decision

is given effect to as an interim measure until such time the

parties resolve their dispute on substantive rights to the land

in a competent court. Therefore the order made by the

Primary Court is really an interim order for the purpose of

preventing a breach of the peace." Justice Yapa further said

in the above case that any person dissatisfied with the an

order of the Primary Court could seek relief in the District

Court and when a dissatisfied party has an alternative

remedy the Court of Appeal will not exercise its revisionary

powers, unless such party can show the existence of

exceptional circumstances.

It is appropriate, at this stage to quote His Lordship Justice

Wijetunga in the case of Edirimanne and others Vs

Kandiah C.A No. 1115/84 on the question relating to the

right of appeal under part VII of the Primary Court

Procedure Act. It reads as follows ...

It seems to me that when the Legislature in its

wisdom provided in Section 74 (4) of the Primary

o o o ~ r--

G ::r: 0... ~ U 7

Court's Act that an appeal shall not lie against

any determination or order under Part VII of that

Act, it intended that a party adversely affected by

such determination or order should ordinarily seek

his remedy in a Civil Court, as the provisions of

Section 7 4( 1) appear to suggest. It is only where

there are exceptional circumstances that this Court

would interfere with such determination or order

and such situations would be the exception rather

than the rule".

Another requirement In exercIsIng the reVIsIOnary

jurisdiction is that not every error or illegality that could

attract it but the circumstances should shock the

conSCIence of the court. In Wijesinghe Vs. Tharmaratnam

Sriskantha Law Report Vol. IV page 47 it was held that

revision is a discretionary remedy and will not be available

unless the application discloses circumstances which

shocks the conSCIence of the Court. In Thommai

Varapragasam and Another Vs. Savarimuthu Aseervathan

Emanual C.A Application (Revision) No. 931/84 it was held

that an error or irregularity which has prejudiced the

substantial rights of the parties and occasioned a failure of

justice would undoubtedly shock the conscience of court.

As far as the present case is concerned the decision of the

original court in no way could be considered as having

occasioned a miscarriage of justice or had shocked the

conscience of the High Court to grant the discretionary

remedy. In the circumstances, the judgment of the learned

8

f I

1

High Court Judge is set aside and the determination of the learned Magistrate restored.

There shall be no costs

Sunil Raj apaksha, J

I agree.

Nrj-

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Judge of the Court of Appeal

""" N """ ~

0 Z ctl ~ ctl .!:: ~

Q) ~ u ~

0 0 0 N ----r--

> Q) c:G

~ ..... ::s 0.. ctl ..c:: '"0

ctl ..... ::s s:: <C U ::r: 0... ,-.,. t.L., '-' r<) 0 0 ~ r--N

""""' U ::r: 0... '-' <C U 9