==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

Case No. CA 957/96 (F)

DC Matugama 1021 P

Kalamba Arachchige Pedoris

Of Madawala Welipanna.

Defendant-Appellant.

Vs.

Madawala Wattage Benjamin

Of Welipanna, Madawala.

Plaintiff-Respondent

1. Kalamba Ararchchige Martin

2. Kalamba Ararchchige Edwin

3. Kalamba Ararchchige Baby Nona

4. Kalamba Ararchchige Aralis

5. Kalamba Ararchchige George

6. Horawala Mawathage Garlis Singho

7. Horawala Mawathage Elbert

8. Horawala Mawathage Baton

9. Horawal Mawathage Richard

10. Madawala Maddumage Richard

1

I I : } .

f'~n1?3

h .. ,I." . .'. f, J

11. Horawala Mawathage Pilen Singho

12. Horawala Mawathage Missi Nona

13. Madawala Wattage Aron all of J\ Madawala, Welimpanna.

15. Admil Kankanamage Ansinona of No.25 Post, Koppiwatta, Welipanna.

16. K.A.D. Eminona

17. P.D. Karolis

18. W. D. Saraneris

19. M.M. Gilbert \ J

20. P.V. Jasalinnona

All of Madawala, Welipanna and others.

Defendants-Respondents.

BEFORE A.W.A. Salam J.

COUNSEL S.N. Vijithsingh for the 14th Defendant- Appe"ant and Sanath Vitharana with Mahanama Dissanayake for1A, 1 B Substituted J\ Plaintiff-Respondent.

Argued on : 05.03.2012

Written Submissions tendered on 07.09.2011

Decided on : 22.05.2012.

2

A. W .A. Salam J.

This is an appeal from the judgement dated 1~ September 1996

to partition the land depicted in the preliminary plan bearing

No 195 dated 30 December 1986 made by P D C W

Hewadikaram, Licensed Surveyor and Commissioner. The only

question that arose for determination in the district court was

whether the land depicted in the preliminary plan is a portion

of a larger land depicted as lot 103 in the village final plan No

82, in extent 10 acres 2 roods and 13 perches. According to the

plaintiff, the corpus is known as Kanapatymulle Kumbura

Pitakattiya and Nagahapaliya. The contesting defendant,

namely, the 14th defendant-appellant maintained that the

expression "Pitakattiya" in Sinhala is used to refer to the

portion of a land outside a paddy field and therefore the land

described as "Kaapathimulle Kumbura Pitakattiya" cannot be

considered as a land of 5 bushels of paddy sowing extent. On

behalf of the appellant it was contended that 5 bushels being

equivalent to 10 roods as per decision in Ratnayaka Vs

Kumarihamy 2002 Vol 1 SlR page 60, the corpus depicted in the

preliminary plan is a portion of a larger land. For purpose of

convenience the relevant passage from the judgement in

Ratnayaka Vs Kumarihamy is reproduced below ...

"The boundaries given in the deeds are at variance with

the boundaries shown in the preliminary plan .

............ learned Counsel for the defendant-appellants

contended that the English equivalent to the customary

Sinhala measure of sowing of one laha is one acre.

However, it is to be noted that this system of land

3

measure computed according to the extent of land

required sowing with paddy or Kurakkan vary due to the

interaction of several factors. The amount of seed

required could vary according to the varying degrees of

fertility of the soil, the size and quality of the grain, and

the peculiar qualities of the sower. In the circumstances, it

is difficult to correlate sowing extent accurately by

reference to surface areas, (vide Ceylon Law Recorder, vol.

XXII, and page XLVI)".

Accordingly, it is difficult to adopt a uniform method to

ascertain the extent of a land in reference to the paddy sowing

quantity. Even though the appellant contested the identity of

the land alleging what was surveyed at the preliminary survey

was portion of a larger land, he has failed to take out a

commission to survey the land or to superimpose the plan

depicting the larger land on the preliminary plan.

When the plaintiff was under cross examination he was not

questioned as to the boundaries of the corpus. It was merely

suggested to him, under cross examination that the land

depicted in the preliminary plan is a portion of a larger land

which suggestion the plaintiff refuted and maintained that the

corpus he sought to partition is a separate land.

The appellant in the course of presenting his case produced the

final village plan bearing No 82, which depicts lot No 103 in

extent of 10 acres 10 roods and 13 Perches. However, the

appellant has failed to produce any other documents to

establish that the corpus is part of larger land depicted in the

final village plan. According to the commissioner the land he

\

J

surveyed for purpose of preparing the preliminary plan is the

identical land that is sought to be partitioned. The learned

district judge having considered the evidence adduced by both

parties on the question of the identity of the corpus has come

to the conclusion that the land sought to be partitioned is not a

portion of a larger land as claimed by the appellant, but an

independent entity as depicted in the preliminary plan and

answered the point of contest on the identity of land in favour

of the plaintiff.

Taking into consideration the material considered by the

learned district judge to arrive at this conclusion, I am of the

view that he has properly analysed the evidence and come to

the right decision. Hence, the appeal preferred by the appellant

merits no favourable consideration and therefore the appeal is

dismissed subject to costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

Mm/-

5