==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI

LANKA

Court of Appeal No. CALA 404/2005

District Court of Marawila No: 1095/L

Before: Eric Basnayake J

K.T. Chitrasiri J

In the mater of an application

for leave to appeal

Deitma Doering

1st Defendant-Petitioner

Vs.

W.H. Thamara Doering &

another

Plaintiff-Respondents & Four

Defendant-Respondents

Counsel: S.A.D.S. Suraweera for the 1st Defendant-Petitioner

M.R. De Silva P.e. with Bandara Thalagune for the Plaintiff-Respondent

Argued On: 21.10.2009 & 11.1.2010

Written Submissions Tendered On: 20.5.2010

Decided On: 27.10.2011

1

Eric Basnayake J

The 1st defendant-petitioner (1st defendant) objected to issues 9, 10 and 11 raised

for the plaintiffs-respondents (plaintiffs). The learned Judge after inquiry, on

27.9.2005 decided to consider the objections at the end of the trial and directed

the defendants to raise their issues and thereafter the defendants too raised

issues. The 1st defendant filed this leave to appeal application to have the order

dated 27.9.2005 of the learned District Judge of Marawila postponing the

decision on the objections set aside and to have the three issues rejected. Leave

was granted by this court on 1.6.2009.

The three issues are as follows:-

9. Due to family disputes did the 1st defendant act in an

ungrateful manner towards the plaintiff and the children of

the ma rriage?

10.Did the 1st plaintiff file Maintenance case No. 39668 in the

Magistrate's Court of Marawila to sustain the 1st plaintiff and

the children?

11.Has a cause of action arisen to have the deed of gift No. 1960

declared invalid on the ground of ingratitude on the part of

the 1st defendant?

Submissions of the learned counsel for the 1st defendant

The learned counsel submitted that the three issues relate to a cause of action

based on gross ingratitude. He submitted that on perusal of the plaint it appears

that this action is not based on gross ingratitude but a trust in favour of the

2

plaintiff. The learned counsel submitted that there is no mention in the plaint of a

cause of action based on gross ingratitude. Therefore on the face of the plaint

plaintiffs are not entitled to raise issues on a cause of action not pleaded. The

learned counsel submitted that in the event the issues are allowed to stand the

defendants will be at a distinct disadvantage as they have filed answer only

answering the averments contained in the plaint and the defendants will be

denied an opportunity to place their case fully before the trial court and take up

any defence in their answer.

The learned counsel submitted that the very first deed pleaded in the plaint is the

deed of gift and the plaintiffs have opted to obtain a decree for cancellation of

this deed on the basis of trust. In the event the plaintiffs are allowed to challenge

the said deed on the ground of gross ingratitude, the plaintiffs will not be able to

maintain their action as there will be a conflict in the causes of action. If the deed

No. 1960 is challenged on the basis of a trust, the plaintiffs have to rely on the

fact that they have transferred the property to the 1st defendant but without the

intention of passing the beneficial interest. On the other hand if the plaintiffs are

to rely on a cause of action of gross ingratitude the plaintiffs admit the passing of

the beneficial interest but for the reason of gross ingratitude the said deed is

liable to be revoked. Hence the learned counsel submitted that the two claims

cannot co-exist in law and the plaintiffs could not have sought relief against the

defendants on both causes of action at the same time. He submitted that the

plaintiffs cannot approbate and reprobate.

The learned counsel also submitted that the learned trial Judge should have made

a ruling on the matters involved at the first instance without waiting till the

3

conclusion of the case as the defendants should know the exact scope of the case

to place their defence. It was submitted that the order of the learned Judge has

placed an additional burden on the defendants to adduce evidence in respect of a

cause of action which was not even pleaded and without knowing as to whether

the said evidence will be considered at the end of the trial.

Submission of the learned counsel for the plaintiffs

The learned President's Counsel submitted that the fact of family disputes

between the 1st plaintiff and the 1st defendant as well as the ingratitude displayed

by the 1st defendant by neglecting to feed the family and a maintenance action

filed in the Magistrate's Court of Marawila is quite conspicuously stated in

paragraph 10 of the plaint. He submitted that the learned Judge quite correctly

postponed the answering of the objections to the end of the case.

Section 146 of the Civil Procedure Code states what material to use in the framing

of issues. Section 146 (2) states as follows:- ... the court shall, upon the allegation

made in the plaint. or in answer to interrogatories delivered in the action. or

upon the contents of documents produced by either party. and after such

examination of parties as may appear necessary. ascertain upon what material

proposition of fact or law the parties are at variance, and shall thereupon

proceed to record the issues on which the right decision of the case appears to

the court to depend (emphasis added).

It is appropriate at this stage to deal with the facts of this case as it appears from

the pleadings and documents (It is well settled that the framing of issues is not

restricted to pleadings (A.G. v. Smith 8 N.L.R. 229, Iynul Kareeza v. Jayasinghe

1986 CALR 109). The 1st plaintiff married the 1st defendant a German national on

4

26.12.1983. By deed 1677 of 27.4.1984 marked P1 the two plaintiffs (sister and

brother) became owners of the two allotments referred to in the schedule to the

plaint. On 28.3.1988 the 1st plaintiff (owner of Yz of the two lands referred to in

the schedule) gifted Yz of her share (that is ~ of the whole land) to the 1st

defendant. The 2nd defendant (Pan Construction & Industries (Pvt.) Ltd) was

formed on 15.11.1991.

The plaintiffs had sold both lots referred to in the schedule to the plaint to the 2

nd

defendant company for a sum of Rs.2 million by deed No. 844 of 31.5.1993.

According to the plaintiffs no consideration had passed in this transaction. The

deed states that the vendors admit that the money was paid prior to the

execution.

In the plaint the plaintiffs specifically pleaded in paragraphs 21 to 24 four

separate causes of action.

The 1st cause of action

The plaintiffs in paragraphs 7,8,12,13,14,15 and 16 pleaded that the transfer

referred to in deed 844 in fact is a trust. On the face of it, it is a sale. However the

plaintiffs state that no money passed and the plaintiffs never intended to pass the

beneficial interest.

2nd cause of action

The plaintiffs in paragraphs 9, 10 and 11 make reference to deed No. 1960. Deed

1960 is a deed of gift absolute and irrevocable. One of the grounds that such a

deed may be declared void is gross ingratitude. The complaint of the learned

counsel for the 1st defendant is that the word "ingratitude" is not mentioned in

5

the plaint. The plaintiffs refer to the deed of gift No.1960 in paragraph 9 of the

plaint. In paragraphs 10 and 11 the plaintiffs state that the 1st defendant due to

family disputes, failed and neglected to maintain the 1st plaintiff and the children

of their marriage, and as a result the 1st plaintiff had to file an action in the

Magistrate's Court of Marawila claiming maintenance and the 1st defendant had

filed a divorce case in the District Court. In paragraph 11 the 1st plaintiff stated

that she was removed from the directorship of Pan Construction & Industries

{Pvt.} Ltd. The deed 844 is in connection with this company where she claims a

trust. 3rd cause of action: to claim damages in a sum of Rs.1 million. 4th cause of

action: to obtain an interim injunction.

The 1st plaintiff had gifted Yz of her share of the property to the 1st defendant who

was her husband due to love and affection that she had towards him. She states

that the husband who is under a duty to feed her and the children stopped doing

so. She also states that her income was reduced due to the reason of her removal

from the director post. She also states that her husband has now filed a divorce

case against her.

One is entitled to get a deed of gift declared void on the ground of gross

ingratitude. Whether the facts mentioned in the plaint, namely, not maintaining

the wife and children, filing a divorce case and removal of the wife from

directorship would be considered as grounds of gross ingratitude is a question of

law. These are the circumstances that the plaintiff is relying on to get this deed

declared void. The word ingratitude is not mentioned in the plaint. In case the

plaintiffs had used the word gross ingratitude in the plaint this objection would

not have taken. However, if the above material would amount to ingratitude, the

6

court may decide on the deed. If the court finds that the material submitted

would not amount to ingratitude the issue may be answered in favour of the 1st

defendant.

The plaintiffs filed this action to mainly get two deeds declared void. One of them

is deed 1960 which is a gift. The other deed is N. 844 which is a sale. A deed of

sale cannot be declared void on the ground of ingratitude. However deed of gift

No.1960 could be declared void on the ground of ingratitude. It is for this purpose

the plaintiffs mentioned in the plaint about the filing of the maintenance and the

divorce actions. Why should the plaintiffs mention in this case that she is not

being sustained by her husband? Why should she mention that she had been

removed from the directorship? She believed that the marriage would last and

that her love towards her husband and vise versa would last. She gifts half of her

properties to the 1st defendant with the hope of continuing to have that love and

affection. She naturally expects the husband to sustain her. With that belief she

writes her properties to her husband. After the properties are gifted, the 1st

defendant neglects to maintain her and the children. If these facts cannot be

considered as amounting to ingratitude conduct the court may answer the issue

in the negative.

The conduct of the 1st defendant becomes relevant to decide the validity of deed

No.1960 which is a deed of gift. While deciding on the validity the court has to

decide whether the 1st defendant's conduct amounts to gross ingratitude? The

conduct is the failure to sustain the plaintiff and the children etc. The failure to

sustain may not be an act of ingratitude. The question is whether the matters set

7

out could help court to raise issues 9, 10 and 11? Is the material sufficient to raise

issues 9, 10 and 11?

On the face of it deed No. 844 is an outright sale. By this deed the plaintiffs sell

the whole land (lands described in schedule as 1 and 2) to the 2nd defendant. The

plaintiffs claim this to be a trust. Plaintiffs state that no money was paid although

on the face of the deed the sale was for a sum of Rs. 2 million. The plaintiffs state

that the beneficial interest had not passed. The plaintiffs have to bring evidence

to prove the trust. If the plaintiffs succeed in proving a trust the plaintiffs may not

depend on the issue with regard to the deed of gift as the deed 844 involves the

whole land. If the plaintiffs fail in proving a trust, the plaintiffs may fall back on

the deed of gift. The deed of gift would have to be declared void on the ground of

ingratitude.

The plaintiffs pleaded certain facts to get the deed of gift declared invalid. The

plaintiffs relied on those facts to prove ingratitude which would help the plaintiffs

to have the deed declared void. The question is by not using the word

"ingratitude", the plaintiffs should be shut off from raising it as an issue. I am of

the view that the plaintiffs pleaded those facts in order to challenge this deed of

gift. Therefore I am of the view that the issues 9, 10 and 11 should be allowed.

Once these issues are allowed it would enable the plaintiffs to bring in evidence.

The court may decide whether the evidence placed before court amounts to

ingratitude.

I am of the view that there is no conflict between the two causes of action. One

cause of action relates to the deed of gift No 1960. If this deed of gift is to be

declared void the plaintiffs would have to prove ingratitude on the part of the 1st

8

,

! !

defendant. Issues 9, 10 and 11 are concerning the issue of ingratitude. Paragraphs

9, 10 and 11 of the plaint are concerning these issues. Whether what is pleaded

amounts to ingratitude or not will have to be decided. That will be at the end of

the case. Deed No. 844 is concerning the trust. This has no connection to deed

1960. Deed 844 was executed in 1993. Deed 1960 was executed on 28.3.1988.

By deed No. 1960 the 1st plaintiff had gifted X of the property. Even if the deed of

gift is declared valid, plaintiffs may proceed to establish a trust in respect of 3/4th

of the property. All that needs to be done is to adduce evidence. I agree with the

learned counsel for the 1st defendant that the learned Judge should have made an

order with regard to the objection raised, immediately. The order cannot be

postponed till the end of the case. What is the position if the Judge disallows the

issues raised or upholds the objection? By this time evidence would have been led

to prove the issues. As submitted by the learned counsel the parties would be put

to unnecessary expenditure. The decision should be taken immediately whether

the issues should be allowed or not.

For the reasons given, I am of the view that issues 9, 10 and 11 should be allowed.

The objection raised against the framing of these issues is overruled. The appeal is

partly allowed. No costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

----------------

K.T. Chitrasiri J

I agree

Judge of the Court of Appeal

9