==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALSIT

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Kahapola Arachchige Milroy Lasantha Fernando alias Gamini

Accused-Appellant

C.A. Appeal No. 249/2010 H.C. Panadura No. 1969/2005

Before

Counsel

Argued & Decided on

Sisira de Abrew, J,

Vs.

The Hon. Attorney General, Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

Respondnet

SISIRA DE ABREW, J & P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA, J

Upali de Almaida with R.J.U. de Almaida for the Accused-Appellant

Harippriya Jayasundara S.S.C. for the State.

04.03.2013.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted for raping

namely Vatuthanthirige Nalika Rasikani Alwis and was sentenced

I

to a term of 12 years rigorous imprisonment, to pay a fine of Rs.

10,000/-carrying a default sentence of 6 month simple

imprisonment and to pay a sum of Rs. 200,000/- as compensation

to the victim carrying a default of 2 years rigorous imprisonment.

Being aggrieved by said conviction and sentence, the accused-

appellant has appealed to this court.

Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as follows:

The accused-appellant has committed sexual

intercourse on the victim. She, soon after the commission of the

act of rape, did not complain to the elders in the family. She made

a belated complaint to the police. She divulged the incident to the

elders in the family after she became pregnant. The accused-

appellant too gave evidence under oath and denied the charge.

Before the commencement of the trial, the accused-

appellant made an application to the learned trial Judge to subject

himself and the child to a D.N.A. test. Learned trial Judge, on the

said application, made an order to the effect that she would order

a D.N.A. test if the necessity arises after the evidence of the

victim and the J.M.O. The victim in giving evidence admitted

that apart from the accused-appellant, she did not have sexual

2

intercourse with any body. In our opinion with this answer of the

victim there was a duty on the part of the learned trial Judge to

allow the application of the accused-appellant regarding the D.N.A.

test. We note that the victim had given birth to a child. Thus

with the above answer of the victim the learned trial Judge should

have ordered the D.N.A. test requested by the accused-appellant.

The accused-appellant who made the application for a

D.N.A test, went up the extent of saying that he would plead guilty

to the charge if the D.N.A. test is positive. In a case of rape if the

victim who has delivered a baby as a result of the alleged sexual

intercourse that she claims to have had with the accused says

that she did not have sexual intercourse with any other person

except the accused and if the accused who denies the charge

makes an application to the trial Judge to subject himself and the

baby to a DNA test, the conviction without allowing the

application of the accused is unreasonable.

I would like to give reasons to the above conclusion. If

the DNA test is negative, then the story of the victim that she did

not have sexual intercourse with any other person except the

accused and that she delivered a baby as a result of the sexual

intercourse that that she had with the accused becomes false.

3

Then the accused cannot be convicted of the charge. He should be

acquitted. Under the said circumstances if the accused is convicted

without allowing his application, he is being convicted without

utilizing the opportunity of testing the veracity of the story of the

victim. Therefore in a situation of this nature, it becomes the duty

of the learned trial Judge to allow the application of the accused.

When we consider all these matters, we feel that it is unsafe to

allow the conviction to stand. Therefore we set aside the conviction

and the sentence imposed on the accused-appellant. We therefor

order a retrial. We direct that the trial be taken up before a

different judge.

Retrial ordered.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

/mds

4