==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA 212/2009

Pargoda Vithanalage Thilakaratne Rupasinghe

Accused-Appellant

Vs

HC Trincomalee HCEP 2259/04 (T)

Before

Counsel

Argued on Decided on

The Attorney General.

Respondent

Sisira J de Abrew J & Sunil Rajapakshe J

Ranjan Mendis with Ravi Jayawardene and AC Kandambi and

Upeksha Guniyangoda for the Accused Appellant. Ayesha Jinasena DSG for the Respondent.

: 5. 2.2013 and 7.2.2013

: 28.3.2013

Sisira J de Abrew J.

The accused appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of a woman

named Thilakarathnage V asanthi Renuka Ratnayake and was sentenced to death.

Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence he has appealed to this

court. Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as follows:

The accused appellant who lived in the neighbourhood of Vasanthi met

Vasanthi on 19.10.2012 at the village temple and asked her as to why she did not

reply the letter sent by him. When Vasanthi replied in the following language: "do

not disturb me", the accused appellant gave her a blow with his hand. This was

2

witnessed by Priyadarshani Kumari who came to the temple to do certain religious

activities.

On the fateful day (25.11.92) between 10.00 a.m. and 11.00 a.m. when

Premawathi who lived in the neighbourhood of the appellant was coming from her

chena she heard somebody shouting. When she looked in that direction, she saw

the accused appellant stabbing Vasanthi. Thereupon she ran away from this place.

When she met the mother of the accused appellant she addressed her in the

following language. "Prema Akka Prema Akka Chutty is stabbing Vasanthi". The

accused-appellant is also called Chutty.

The accused appellant in his dock statement denied the incident. Learned

counsel who appeared for the accused appellant did not challenge the credibility of

witness Premawathi. He contended that since the accused appellant had inflicted

only one penetrating injury he did not have murderous intention at the time he

inflicted the injury and the learned trial judge should have convicted the accused

appellant only for the offence of culpable homicide not amounting to murder on

the basis of knowledge. He further submitted that the learned trial judge had not

considered this aspect of the case. He in support of his argument cited the

judgment in Weerappan Vs Queen 76 NLR 109 where His Lordship Justice HNG

Fernando held thus: "Where a person is charged with murder, evidence showing

that only one stab injury was inflicted by him on the deceased may indicate the

absence of murderous intention. In such a case, it is the duty of the judge to give

appropriate direction to the jury." I now advert to this contention. The contention

of learned counsel for the accused appellant was that the ·accused appellant

inflicted only one penetrating injury. How many injuries did the accused appellant

inflict on the deceased woman? He inflicted nine injuries on the deceased woman.

Four of them were stab injuries and the five were cut injuries. The injury no 1

which was on the chest had penetrated into the heart. According to the doctor who

3

conducted the Post Mortem Examination (PME), injured person would die

instantaneously after infliction of this injury. According to the doctor 2nd,3rd and 4th

injuries would have been caused when the deceased woman tried to prevent her

being stabbed. The 3rd and 4th injuries were on the armpit. The 5th injury which was

a stab injury would have been caused when she was falling or after she fell on the

ground. The injury no 7 was on the face. The gth and 9th injuries which were on the

fingers on the left hand would have been caused when the deceased woman

attempting to snatch the knife. These facts show that the accused was not satisfied

with one injury being caused and that his intention was to end the life of the

deceased woman. In a charge of murder it is difficult to find direct evidence to

prove the murderous intention. How does the court decide whether the assailant

had murderous intention? Several factors can be considered in this regard. Some of

them are as follows.

1. The weapon used.

2. The number of injuries caused.

3. The place of the body where the assailant inflicted injuries.

4. The force used by the assailant to inflict injuries.

The doctor who conducted the PME says that a considerable force had been

used to inflict the injury No.l which had penetrated to the heart. The accused

appellant had inflicted nine injuries. The weapon used was a knife. He has even

inflicted injuries when the deceased woman attempted to prevent her being

stabbed. All these factors clearly indicate that the accused appellant, at the time of

injuries being inflicted, had the murderous intention. Then the contention that the

accused appellant did not have murderous intention cannot be accepted. I have

earlier held that the accused appellant had murderous intention when he inflicted

injuries. There are no any other defences available in the evidence to consider

lesser culpability.

4

For the above reasons I am unable to accept the contention of learned

counsel for the accused appellant. When I consider the evidence led at the trial I

hold the view that the prosecution has proved the charge beyond reasonable doubt.

In my view there is no merit in this appeal.

For the above reasons I affirm the conviction and the death sentence and

dismiss the appeal.

Sunil Rajapakshe J

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

Judge of the Court of Appeal