==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. Application No. 433/2009 (Writ)

In the matter of an application for Writs of

Certiorari and Prohibition under and in

terms of Article 140 of the Constitution.

Daluwatta Patabendige Gunasena,

Daluwattagedera,

Kalugalahena, Deniyaya.

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. Manoj Jayanetti, Competent Authority, Ministry of Plantation, No. 55/75, Vauxhall Lane, Colombo-02.

2. D.A. Ekanayake,

The Divisional Secretary, Divisional Secretariat, Kotapola.

3. The Chairman,

State Plantations Corporation,

No.55/75, Vauxhall Lane, Colombo-02.

4. Mathurata Plantations Ltd, 2nd Floor, Unity Plaza Building, Galle Road, Colombo-04.

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

JUDGEMNT ON:

GOONERATNE J.

5. The Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

RESPONDENTS

Anil Gooneratne J. &

H. N. J. Perera J.

2

Razik Zarook P.C., with Rohana Deshapriya & Chanakya Liyanage for the Petitioner

F. Jameel DSG for the 2"d,3rd and 5th Respondents.

D. Peiris for the l 5t and 4th Respondents.

14.03.2013

11.06.2013

The Petitioner to this application has sought a writ of certiorari

to quash the quit notice issued under the State Lands Recovery of Possession

3

Act marked Pl and the decision reflected in letters marked Plato Plc. A writ

of prohibition is sought to prohibit the 1st respondent from taking possessior.

of the land depicted in the petition. lt is the case of the petitioner that he

was the occupier and owner of the land described as lot 86-CS called

uwaneidalahetihena". Petitioner also contends that his father owned and

possessed the above land in dispute since 1943 and had been in

uninterrupted possession. Notice dated 08.02.2008 (received on 10.02.2008)

had been served by the l

5trespondent purporting to be the Competent

Authority under the State Lands Recovery of Possession Act intimating to the

petitioner to hand over vacant possession of the land in dispute before

08.03.2008 (Pl)

The date of notice Pl is 08.02.2008, and the date to handover possession as

in Pl more particularly (ep) of Pl is 08.03.2008. Petitioner also plead that

subsequent to the date in Pl two cases were filed against the petitioner in

the District Court of Morawaka bearing Nos. 11567 /Land for a declaration of

title/ejectment and case No. 102/L for the same relief as in the other case.

Whilst the above two land cases were pending petitioner was noticed (P4) to

4

appear in the Magistrate's Court of Morawaka in respect to an application

made by the 1

5trespondent. The Magistrate had on 26 .. 05.2009 made order

evicting the petitioner (P7) from the land in question.

lt is disclosed by the petitioner that he filed a revision application seeking to

revise the above order of eviction made by the Magistrate on 26.05.2009 to

the High Court but the High Court had dismissed the revision application (P9).

lt is also stated that the learned Magistrate made order against the

petitioner to hand over possession of the land in question on or before

22.06.2009 (P10)

The learned President's counsel for the petitioner in his oral as well as in the

written submissions raised the following points and invited this Court to

grant the relief prayed or in the petition.

1) The Notice under section 3(1) of the State Land Recovery of

Possession Act is bad in law as it did not stipulate the mandatory 30

days notice as required by law.

5

2) The Competent Authority has not given the proper authority to issue

the said notice (.marked P1) and to file the case No. 7138 in the

Magistrate Court of Morawaka.

3) The Delegation of Authority to the 1st Respondent is bad in law and in

violation of the Principle, delegatus non potestdelegare.

4) The 1st respondent cannot file the said case as it has not been proved

that it is a state land and the title to the said land is to be decided in

the District Court of Morawaka in cases No. 11557 /Land and No.

102/Land

5) The 1st respondent cannot move to eject the Petitioner from the said

land by seeking refuge under the said State Land Recovery of

Possession Act as the Petitioner has been in the continuous possession

of the said land and had duly paid the rentals while making bonafide

improvements such as tea plantations.

As regards the time limit in the notice to quit P1, dated 08.02.2008, the

petitioner was required to hand over possession by 08.03.2008 and the

petitioner argues that he was given only 28 days to quit. This according to

the petitioner contravenes the required 30 days in terms of sec. 3(1) of the

6

Act. Petitioner argues that the date specified in the notice shall be a date not

less than 30 days.

The other argument of the petitioner is as regards the authority of the 1st

respondent to issue Pl, and act as competent authority in terms of the

statute. Letters Pla to Plc do not contain a general or special authorization

as required by the Act. lt is the position of the petitioner that delegation of

authority to the lstrespondent is bad in law.

We had the benefit of hearing the submission of leaned counsel for the 1st

and 4th respondents and the learned Deputy Solicitor General for the other

respondents, on each and every point urged on behalf of the petitioner. At

the outset itself and wish to observe that the position demonstrated and

emphasized on behalf of the respondents fortify my view that the writs

sought by the petitioner cannot be granted by this Court.

Though the relevant section of the act specify a 30 day requirement to be

included in the quit notice and gives a mandatory flavor it cannot on one

7

hand prejudice the petitioner if he had like in the case in hand sufficient or

more time than the 30 day requirement specified therein, when the

application proper was filed in the Magistrate's court and as such it cannot

vitiate the notice. lt is contended on behalf of the respondent that the notice

is directory and not mandatory, and there is no prejudice caused to the

petitioner and as such there is substantial compliance, Court should not

invalidate such a quit notice. In Gunaratne ( Alexis auction rooms) Vs.

Abeysinghe 88(1) SLR 255. This point had been dealt with, and this Court sees

no legal basis to retract from the said dicta. Even the learned Magistrate in

his order dated 26.05.2009 considered the above authority and had very

carefully analyzed all the facts and made order accordingly. Further in the

proceedings before us, Petitioner does not seek to set aside the Magistrate's

order. As such it remains valid for all purposes in law and the High Court

affirmed such order.

We cannot see any merit in the arguments urged on behalf of the Petitioner.

However on the question of delegation we find a valid delegation in terms of

the Act. The principal Act namely the State Lands Recovery of Possession Act

r 8

!

was as amended by Act No. 58 of 1981 and Sec. Sh of same is wide enough

to include under the definition {(competent authority" an officer generally or

specially authorized by a corporate body, where such land is vested or owned

or under the control of such corporate body. Therefore we see no basis to or

set aside letters pla to plc and they are in order and validly executed for

the purposes of the above statute.

Another point had been urged by the petitioner on very flimsy grounds. i.e

land in dispute is not a state land and title of the land in dispute is to be

decided in two other cases filed in the District Court of Morawaka.

The scheme of the State Lands Recovery of Possession Act mainly is in one

hand urgency to recover possession and the other is to evict persons in

unauthorized possession of State Land. Very stringent provisions are

included and that is so to give effect to the intention of the legislature.

There is no doubt a burden cast on the occupier to prove occupancy by way

of a permit or on written authority.

9

Sec. 9 (1) of the act states that the person on whom summons have been

served .... Shall not be entitled to contest any of the maters set out in sec. 5

except that such person may establish that he is in possession or in

occupation of the land upon a valid permit or other written authority of the

state granted in accordance with any other written law and that such

authority or permit is in force and not revoked.

Therefore it means the occupier can only produce a permit or written

authority to remain in possession. Vide Nirmal Paper Converters ltd vs SLPA

1993 (1) SLR 218; Keenigama Vs Dixon 2001 June BASL newsletter. The onus

is on the person summoned. Muhandiram Vs JEDB 1992 (1) SLR 210. The

written authority granted by the state is the deciding factor to remain in

possession. There is no question of calling upon the competent authority to

prove that the land is state land. Competent Authority merely should be of

the opinion that the person concerned is in unauthorized possession of state

land. Farook Vs Gunawardena, G.A.Ampara 1980 (2) SLR 243 held that sec.

9{2) is to the effect that the Magistrate cannot call for any evidence from

the competent authority to prove state title. This decided case also deals

with alternate remedy by referring to sec. 12 of the Act. Sec. 12 provides an

10

aggrieved party to institute action against the state to vindicate title. Statute

provides a special remedy.

In order to have some completeness to this application, I would also refer to

sec. 18 of the Act as amended by Act No. 29 of 1983 ..... every form of

possession or occupation except possession or occupation upon a valid

permit or other written authority of the state granted in accordance with

any other written law, and includes possession or occupation by

encroachment upon state land.

Per S.N.Silva, J in Thalapathirana Vs Bulankulame. "This definition is couched

in wide terms, so that, in every situation where a person is in possession or

occupation of state land, the possession or occupation is considered as

unauthorized unless such possession or occupation is warranted by a permit

or other written authority."

The petitioner is also guilty of laches. There is an unexplained delay. Quit

notice served on 10.02.2008. By sub para 'b','c','c' (repeated) & 'd' of the

11

prayer to the petition, the petitioner seeks a Writ of Certiorari. The letters

referred to 'b','c','c'(repeated)& 'd' above are dated Oct & Nov 2007.

Petition filed on 06.07.2009. An unexplained delay is very apparent. Delay

defeats equity .... 78 NLR 510,514. As such on this ground alone this

application need to be rejected.

In the above circumstances, this is a futile and a vexations application. There

is no merit at all. Magistrate's order is not challenged before this Court. The

High Court refused and rejected the petitioner's application to revise the

Magistrate's order. Nor has the petitioner sought to vindicate title in terms

of sec. 12 of the Act. We dismiss this application with costs.

Application dismissed.

H. N. J. Perera J.

I agree.

Kpm/-

f::\ J G- w "'-~~ \ff1 c:--JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL