==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA 1088/2000 (F) D.C. Polonnaruwa 7273/97 M

Herath Banda

Petitioner Vs. R.M. Upatissa Bandara Raththota.

Respondent

~

l ,

CA 1088/2000 (F) D.C. Polonnaruwa 7273/97 M

Before : K.T. Chitrasiri,J.

Counsel : Sandamal Rajapaksha for the Plaintiff-Appellant

Defendant-Respondent is absent and unrepresented

Argued &

Decided on : 30.04.2014

K.T. Chitrasiri, J.

Notice sent by the Registrar to the defendant-respondent directing him to

be present in this Court has been returned with the endorsement that the

addressee has left the given address. It is to the address of the defendant-

respondent which is given in the petition of appeal that the said notice

had been sent. Accordingly, this appeal is taken up for hearing in the

absence of the defendant-respondent. Heard, the Counsel for the Plaintiff-

Appellant.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the judgment dated

03.10.2000 of the learned District Judge of Polonnaruwa. By that

jUdgment, learned District Judge dismissed the plaint in which the

Plaintiff-Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Plaintiff) claimed Rs.

130,130/- with interest accrued thereto from the Defendant-Respondent.

(hereinafter referred to as the Defendant). The aforesaid claim had been

made alleging that the said sum of money was due to the plaintiff-

appellant pursuant to purchase of paddy by the Defendant. Defendant in

1

rI ,

f ,

! i t i IIIi

I

f

I

I

,

I 1 his answer has denied the claim of the plaintiff even though he has

admitted that he paid Rs. 10000/ - to the Plaintiff. At the commencement

of the trial an admission also has been recorded admitting that the

Defendant had paid Rs. 10000/- to the Plaintiff. However, the Defendant

has taken up the position that the paddy that he has purchased from the

Plaintiff was of inferior quality and has framed issues accordingly.

Learned District Judge having considered the evidence decided that the

Plaintiff has failed to establish his claim basically due to the non-

production of the documents marked PI and P3 in evidence for him to

consider. Only a photo copy of the document PI had been marked in

evidence. When the said photo copy of the document PI was marked in

evidence, the Plaintiff was given another date to produce the original of

that document Pl. Even on that subsequent date, the original document

was not available.

The aforesaid circumstances show that the Defendant has insisted

producing the original document even though no objection had been

raised when marking the photo copy of the document PI. Hence, it is

clear that the photocopy of the document PI was allowed to mark only for

the purpose of proceeding with the trial and the defendant had always

insisted to have the original of the document PI produced in Court. The

original document PI had not been tendered to court at all. It is the

2

I

II

II! I ! ! !

document on which the entire claim of the plaintiff had been relied upon.

Hence, without the original of the document PI, the plaintiffs claim fails.

Learned District Judge also has stated that the plaintiff is not in a

position to succeed in his claim without producing the document P3 by

which the demand alleged to have been made directing the defendant to

pay the money due to the Plaintiff. It is correct to state that it is the

burden of the plaintiff to establish that he has demanded the money from

the defendant before filing action. In this instance such evidence is not

forthcoming. The document P3 by which the demand had alleged to have

been made had not been tendered to Court.

In the circumstances, it is clear that the learned District Judge is correct

when he decided that the plaintiff has failed to establish his claim in the

absence of the original document upon which he has based his claim and

also without tendering the document marked P3 to prove that he has

demanded the money prior to filing of this action. Accordingly, I do not

see any error in the findings of the learned District Judge. Hence, I am

not inclined to interfere with his decision.

For the aforesaid reasons this appeal is dismissed without costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

NRj-

3

rI

II

JfI! III