==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 960/98 (f) D.C. Horana No. 3629/P

Dissanayake Mudi yanselage Jinadasa, No 35, Anguruwatota Road, Horana.

4th Defendant- Appellant Vs. Welikadage Lakshman Perera, No 47, Kandekade Mahena, Horana.

Plaintiff- Respondent 1. Welikadage Nihal Ranjith Perera Kuruppumulla, Panadura. 2. Mannage Don Lilasena, No: 4/42, RathnauraRoad, Horana. 3. Manage Don Sumanadasa, No: 4/42, Rathnapura Road, Horana.

Defendant –Respondents

C.A.Appeal No.960/98 D.C.Horana No.3629/P

Before

Counsel

Argued&

Decided on

K.T.Chitrasiri, I

K.T.Chitrasiri, J

Arjuna Udawatte with Harendra K. Perera for the 4th

Defendant-Appellant.

Philip Chandraratne for the Plaintiff- Respondent.

Sunil Jayakody with Ms.Dushanthi Senarathne for the 1st

Defendant-Respondent.

02.05.2013

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the judgment dated 14.08.1998 of the

learned District Judge of Horana. In that judgment learned District Judge

rejected the claim of the 4th Defendant-Appellant. His claim was on the basis of

long standing possession to the land sought to be partitioned and it had been

raised at the beginning of the trial in the issue bearing No.11. The 4th Defendant-

Appellant in his evidence had claimed title to lot 'C' referred to in the

preliminary plan No.3592. While claiming title to the said lot 'C' in the

1

preliminary plan, he had marked three Deeds(4V1, 4V2 and 4V3)in evidence

and had said that his title derived from Ariyadasa. The plaintiff had not

accepted Ariyadasa' s title. His position was that Ariyadasa was only a licencee

of the predecessor-in-title of the plaintiff as well as of the 1st defendant.

Learned District Judge had considered the above evidence and in

paragraph 2 found in page 8 of the judgment, he has stated that the appellant

had not established the title of his predecessor Ariyadasa. Furthermore, he has

stated that the Deeds marked and produced by the 4th Defendant-Appellant was

not tendered to Court though those Deeds had been marked in evidence.

Without having the documents before Court, the contents of which cannot be

considered by the trial Judge. It is the duty of the 4th Defendant-Appellant to

have his documents tendered to Court after the conclusion of the trial.

When the case was taken up on 18.11.1993 the trial had been concluded

and the Court had directed the 4th defendant-appellant to file submissions. Even

though the submissions were filed, the 4th defendant had failed to tender the

documents marked on his behalf. The learned District Judge having adverted to

this aspect had stated that the 4th defendant-appellant had failed to establish his

title.

2

In the circumstances, I do not see any wrong on the part of the learned

District Judge when he decided that the 4th defendant-appellant was unable to

establish the title claimed by him without the title deeds being tendered.

Therefore I am not inclined to interfere with the findings of the learned

District Judge.

For the aforesaid reasons the appeal is dismissed with costs.

Appeal dismissed with costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

KLP/-

3