==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE REPUVLIC OF SRI LANKfl!

C.A. Appeal No.1178/98(F)

D.C. - Galle. Case No:8972/P

Mohamed Fahim Wadood, of

No.267, Colombo Road,

Mahamodera, Galle.

Plainriff.

1. Mubashir Sali Of No.134/2,

Colombo road, Mahamodera, Galle.

2. Mohamed Kalid Sitti Fathuma,

3. Ibrahim Rahila,

4. Ibrahim Majid,

S. A. Mohamed Kalid Sitti Fathuma,

6. Ibrahim Salha Bibi,

7. Mammala Marrikar Sumirdth

Umma, Of No. 128/4, Colombo

road, Mahamodera, Galle.

Defendants

AND NO\tV BETvVEEI~

2. Mohamed Kalid Sitti Fathuma,

3. Ibrahim Rahila,

4. Ibrahim Majid,

S. A. Mohamed Kalid Sitti Fathuma,

I!

f I I 1!

i ,I I

II

rI!1!

J III I !

Before

6. Ibrahim Salha Bibi,

7. Mammala Marrikar SumirJ.th

Umma, Of No. 128/4, Colombo

road, Mahamodera, Galle.

Defendants - Appellants

Mohamed Fahim Wadood, of

No.267, Colombo Road,

Mahamodera, Galle.

Plaintiff - Respondent

1. Mubashir Sali Of No. 134/2,

Colombo road, Mahamodera,

Galle.

: W.M.M.Malanie Gunarathne, J

: P.R.Walgama, J

Counsel : Ms. P .L.Gunawardena for the Appellant.

Dr.S.T.A. Cooray for the substituted plaintiff Respondent

and for the 1st Respondent.

Argued on : 29.04.2015

Decided on : 06.07.2015

I !

\ 1 I ! j I I

~ i I F I t 1j

CASE - NO- 1178/98(:F)- JUDGMENT- 06.07.2015

P.R.Walgama, J

The Defendant- Appellants(herein after called and referred to a.:; the

Defendants)(2nd to 6th Defendants), preferred the instant appeal against

the judgment and the decree in case bearing No. 8972/P, in the

District Court of Galle, which was held in favour of the Plaintiff-

Respondent"(herein after called and referred to as the Plaintiff) to

be set aside.

The Plaintiff instituted the above styled action to have the co owned

land known as Warawatta alias Kaluwellawatta depicted in pIan No.

497 as Lot A and more fully described in the schedule to the

plaint, and containing in extent (AO-R2-P9) to be partitioned between

the Plaintiff and the 1st Defendant giving 2/1 share to each.

The Plaintiff has clearly stated the devolution of title, to the corpus

where as Appellants had stated a different person as the original

owner and more fully asserted prescriptive title to the land, \lliithout

cogent proof.

The Learned District Judge in the said impugned judgment has

comprehensively dealt with the devolution of the title of the Plaintiff

in order to arrive at the determination in partitioning the corpus.

As per plaint in the above Partition action the original owner of

the Corpus was one Cassim Sultan Bava, and by Deed No. 12568

dated 24th April 1918, marked as PI conveyed the said land to his

daughter Zaida Cassim Sultan as a dowry on the occasion or her

marriage to Mohamed Abdul Jaleel.

I r

\ III

I

• I ! 1

~ I I I

f ; !

The said Zaida Cassim Sultan with a her husband Mohamed Abdul

Jaleel, by deed bearing No.4 dated 3rd December 1942 marked as P2

conveyed this property to their daughter Sitty Sunny as a dowry, on

the occasion of her marriage to Mohamed Hussen Careem.

The said Sitty Sunny has divided the said land as per plan No. 497

and by deed No. 4711 dated 18th at June 197t mar¥ed::l5 P3 te' tp p

Plaintiff and to the 1 st Defendant, excluding the house stdllding

thereon, and given the right to the 2nd to 6th Defendants to reside

in the said house, without the soil rights to the land in issue.

In that it is admitted that the 2nd to 4th Defendants are only

entitled for compensation, and not to the corpus.

Therefore it is categorically stated by the plaintiff that the

Appellants have no paper title or prescriptive title to the cor:~us. It

is pertinent to note at certain point the Defendants were involved

in extending the house thereon as the original house was a wattle

and thatched house, with the consent of the Plaintiff. The

proceedings dated 07.02.1992 bear ample testimony to that effect.

There fore the Defendants cannot claim any prescriptive title to the

land in issue. In that it is abundantly clear that the defendants

have not possessed this land adverse to the Plaintiff's possession.

The Learned District Judge has considered the title deeds

compendiously marked and tendered to establish the plaintiffs title.

By Deed bearing No. 3682 marked as 1 V2 one Ebrahim Lebbe

Marikkar became entitled to the corpus, his predecessor in title,

Sultan Bhava, became entitled to the corpus by virtue of Deed

bearing No. 1061 marked as 1 V1.

I I

\

f f f f ! ! , ,

f I I i !

f I ;

~ I 1 ! [ ! I

As mentioned before said Sultan Bhava by deed No.12566} marked

as Pi has conveyed his rights to his daughter Seyda Caseem ~)ultan

Bhava as dowry on the occasion of her marriage.

In the attended circumstances the Learned District Judge was of the

view} that the Plaintiff has proved his title} where as the Defendant

has failed to prove his title to the same. It was also viewed that

although the 2nd Defendant relies on title of one Sulaiman Lebbe}

there is no proof} the fact that such person has possessed 1h of the

corpus. According to the said Deed marked as 1 Vl the said

Transferor had title from the year 1897.

In the above setting the Learned District Judge was convinced of

the fact that the Plaintiff has proved his title by producing exhibits

marked Pl-P3 and lVi and lV2.

Therefore it was unequivocal view of the Learned District Judge

that the plaintiff has proved his title and possession to thp. land

with stark proof which overrides the position of the Defendants.

The Learned District Judge has adverted his attention to the

surveyors report marked as Xl} and was of the view that the

Plaintiff has claimed more plantation where as the 2nd Defendant

had claimed only one king coconut tree and four coconut trees

before the surveyor.

It was the stance of the Plaintiff that the 2nd Defendant was a

licensee and came to reside in the house standing thereon after the

plaintiff and the 1st Defendant became entitled to the land in issue.

It is pertinent to note as per document marked 2Vt from the year

1957 to 1986 the 2nd Defendant's name is registered as the tax

I i I t t , !

~

f t i

payee, in respect of the wattle and thatched house standing thereon.

From the year 1987 the above house is registered under the name

of 2nd Defendant. Nevertheless the Learned District Judge was of the

view that as per documents marked 2v2 to 2v10, do not indicate

any title to ~ of the corpus to the 2nd Defendant.

It was the position of the Plaintiff that the buildings marked No.1

and 2 depicted in the preliminary plain belong to the 2nd to 4th

Defendants without any soil rights, and it was so determined by the

Learned District Judge in the impugned judgment.

In this impugned judgment of the Learned District Judge was of the

view that evidence adduced for the 2nd Defendant, has fortified her

position as to the her rights to the said house and not to the soil

rights. Hence it was held that the 2nd to 4th Defendants are entitled

to the said two houses depicted in the preliminary plan marked /IX"

and for improvements numbered as 1,2,3, in the said plan.

It also salient to note that the documents marked 2V1 to 2V10

(which are extracts from the assessment register) will only establish the

fact that 2nd to 4th Defendants were living in the purported house,

without having the right to claim title to the ~ of the corpus.

In perusing the documents marked P4 and P5 the Leal neJ. DisLriLi:

Judge was of the view that, it is clear that the Defendants had tried

to renovate the house, further it was held it the said documents are

indicative of the fact that the 2nd Defendant has entered the corpus

as a licensee of the original owners of the plaintiff, was also of the

view that the 2nd Defendant has not been able to prove his

predecessor's title, and as such had held that the Plaintiff has

proved his title to the satisfaction of the Court.

f IIi

t{

In the said scenario it is proved that Sitti Sanny Carimm had

conveyed her rights by deed No. 4711 attested by A.M.M. Tahir Notary

Public to the Plaintiff and the 1st Defendant.

The Learned District Judge by his impugned judgment has declared

that the buildings marked 1 and 2 be allocated to 2nd to 4th

Defendants, and will be entitled for compensation in respect of the

well.

When the impugned judgment is reviewed in the said back drop I

am of the view that the said judgment should be upheld and

Appeal should stand rejected.

Accordingly appeal is dismissed subject to a cost of Rs. 5000 I.

appeal is dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M.Malanie Gunarathne, J

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

1I I ! i I l

)

f , I

f ! i 1! , r

~ j I !

t ,

~

! ! t i I} l ,