==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A.No.159-161/2011 H.C.Negombo No.HC 280/2006

Dehiwalage Niranjan Sanjeewa Perera A. Dinusha Nishantha H.S. Dinesh Kumara

Appellants Vs. Hon Attorney General Attorney General’s Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

\ ! I

C.A.No.159-161/2011

Before

Counsel

Argued and

Decided on

1

H.C.Negombo No.HC 280/2006

Sisira J de Abrew,J. (Acting PICA) and

P. W. D. C.J ayathilaka,J.

Dr. Ranjit Fernando for the 1st Accused

-Appellant.

Indika Mallawaarachchi for the 2nd Accused

-Appellant

Dilan Rathnayake SSC for the Respondent.

06.12.2013.

Sisira J. de Abrew,J (Acting P / CAl

Accused - appellants are present In Court produced by the Prison

Authorities.

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused - appellants in this case were charged with the murder

of a man named Jayaweerage Dharmarathe and a woman named Waduge

Nandawathi. They were also charged for causing simple hurt to

Vithanagamage Wijeratne (3rd count), Sumudu Nirmali (4th count),

Hettiarachchige Siriwardena (5th count) and Hettiarachchige Nilanga

Hettiarachchi (6th count). They were also charged with the robbery of cash

and jewellery from the possession of said Dharmaratne. Prosecution led the

2

evidence of Vithanagamage Wijeyaratne at the trial. After his evidence the

accused-appellants pleaded guilty, in respect of 1 st and the 2nd counts to the

offence of culpable homicide not amounting to murder on the basis of

~J. Vudden fight. They also pleadmg guilty to 2nd to 7th counts. On the first

" count each accused-appellant was sentenced to a term of six years rigorous

imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs. 10,000/= carrying a default sentence

of 6 months simple imprisonment. Same punishment was imposed in

respect of the 2nd count. They were, on each count of 3rd, 4th and 5th, were

sentenced to a term of 6 moths rigorous imprisonment and to pay a fine of

Rs. 5,000/= carrying a default sentence 3 moths simple imprisonment and

to pay a sum of Rs.25,000/= as compensation to each victim, carrying a

default sentence of twelve months imprisonment. To the 7th count each

accused-appellant was sentenced to a term of one year ngorous

imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs. 5,000/= carrying a default sentence of

three moths simple imprisonment. Learned trial Judge directed that all

terms of imprisonment should run consecutively. We note that the accused-

appellants were convicted on their own plea. Learned Counsel for the

accused-appellant makes an application to relax the direction made by the

learned trial Judge with regard to the running of the sentences

consecutively. In respect of 3rd, 4th 5th and 6th counts we note that the fine

imposed by the trial Judge is illegal as only a fine of Rs.1 ,000/ = could be

imposed on a charge of 314 of the Penal Code. We therefore set aside the

fine of Rs.5000/= imposed by the learned trial Judge in respect of 3rd, 4th,

5th and 6th counts and substitute a fine of Rs.1000/= in place of fine of

Rs.5000/=. In default of the fine of Rs.1000/= we impose a default sentence

iI!II!Ii

II

!i 1

iIl

~p

~,I![l

IJ,ttf

I!t

I

f!

i

3

of one month simple imprisonment. The learned trial Judge has imposed six

months rigorous imprisonment in respect of 3rd, 4th, 5th and 6th counts and

made a direction to run the said term of imprisonment consecutively. We

set aside the said direction and direct that the six months term of

imprisonment imposed on 3rd, 4th 5th and 6th counts should run

concurrently with term of one year imprisonment imposed on count No.7.

Thus in respect of 3rd,4th, 5th, 6th and 7th counts a total imprisonment would

be only one year rigorous imprisonment. We do not interfere with the

direction made by the learned trial Judge with regard to the consecutive

sentences on count No.1 and 2. The terms of imprisonment imposed on

count No. 1 and 2 should run consecutively. Therefore, the total

imprisonment that they have to undergo is 13 years rigorous imprisonment.

The default sentence should be implemented in addition to the term of 13

years rigorous imprisonment. We direct the Prison Authorities to implement

the sentence from the date of sentencing by the learned trial Judge. The

Learned High Court of Negombo is directed to issue a fresh committal

indicating the sentence imposed by this Court.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P. W .D.C.Jayathilaka,J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

WCj-

rI

fi

f!!,!