==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

H.C.A.No. HB 03/2013

In the matter of an application for mandates in the nature of Writs of Habeas Corpus under and in terms . of Article 140 of the Constitution of the Democratic Republic of Sri Lanka.

Jayapathma Herath Mudiyanselage Anura Kumara Jayapathma,

In front of Mahaweli Grounds,

N ochchiyagama.

Petitioner.

Vs.

1. Saman Hewakandambi,

Samanala Rice Mill,

Ikiriwewa, Sinharagama,

N ochchiyagama

2. Hatan Archchige Manori,

No.62, Samanala Building,

N ochchiyagama

3. Lal Hewa Kandambi,

No.2615, 3rd Stage,

Anuradhapura

4. Sithuni Aishwarya Dewasmitha

Hewa Kandambi

-The Corpus

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED AND

DECIDED ON

(Location Presently Unkonwn)

5. Deputy Inspector General of Police,

DIG Office - Anuradhapura,

Anuradhapura.

Respondents

SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J. (ACTING PICA) &

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA, J.

Chatura Galhena with Manoja

Liyanagunawardena for the petitioner.

Upali Jayamanne with Dilanka Perera for the

1 st, 2nd, and 3rd respondents.

2

Priyantha Fernando with Kumudini Keerthiwella

for the 4th respondent.

17th January, 2014

*************

SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J. (ACTING P L CAl

Heard all Counsel in support of their respective cases.

Learned Counsel for the 4th respondent seeks to tender

objections and an affidavit signed by the 4th respondent. We have

perused the said documents. Registrar is directed to file the said

documents in the docket.

3

Counsel appearing for the 1st, 2nd , and 3rd respondents seeks

to tender objections and an affidavit of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd respondents.

We have perused the said documents. Registrar is directed to file the·

said documents in the docket.

This is a Habeas Corpus application.

The petitioner has sought an order from this Court directing

the 1st, 2nd and 3rd respondent to produce the corpus (4th respondent).

The 4th respondent is present in Court. She has signed an affidavit. In

that affidavit she states that she has filed an action in the District Court

to annul the marriage between her and the petitioner. Petitioner alleges ·

that there is a valid marriage between the petitioner and the 4th

respondent. But the 4th respondent has now taken steps to annul the

marriage between the two. A certified copy of the District Court case is

annexed to her objections. Since the 4th respondent (the corpus) IS

present in Court, the purpose of the Habeas Corpus application IS

fulfilled. We should now decide whether we should hand over the

corpus to the petitioner. Since the corpus has filed a case in the

District Court, to annul the marriage, if we make an order that the

corpus should be handed over to the petitioner such an order would be

rendered futile. We therefore hold the view that the proceedings in this

case should be terminated.

4

In these circumstances we make order terminating the

proceedings. We dissolve all interim orders issued by this Court .

Registrar of this Court is directed to inform the Controller of

Immigration and Emigration by way of a letter that the interim orders

issued by this Court have been dissolved and that there is no

impediment for her (4th respondent) to leave the country.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Kwk/=