==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

Case No. CA (Writ) 266/2011

In the matter of an application For prerogative writs.

1. Dona Nihal Jayanthi Mallawarachchi No.37B, Government Housing Scheme, Ratmalana.

2. Kodikara Gedera Punchi Bandara No.117A, Government Housing Scheme, Ratmalana.

3. Ahangama Liyanage Ranaraja Patmasiri No.70B, Government Housing Scheme, Ratmalana.

4. Hibutugoda Ruhunuge Ananda No.116A, Government Housing Scheme, Ratmalana.

5. Adikari Mudiyanselage Karuna Basnayake No.15B, Government Housing Scheme, Ratmalana.

6. Palle Kandelage Gnanawathie No.38A, Government Housing Scheme, Ratmalana.

2

7. Rankoth Gedera Swarnathilaka Dolapihille No.C39B, Government Housing Scheme, Ratmalana.

8. Indrajith Presanna Wickramasinghe No.22B, Government Housing Scheme, Ratmalana.

9. Hennayake Mudiyanselage Premarathna No.48A, Government Housing Scheme,

Ratmalana.

10. Makawitage Anthony Weerasena Nanayakkara No.C/77/ A, Government Housing Scheme, Ratmalana.

11. Athukoralage Padma Ranjani No.C/8/21, Government Housing Scheme, Ratmalana.

12. Amara Wijesekera Dissanayake No.C/105/b Government Housing Scheme, Ratmalana.

13. Mudalihamige Seneviratne No.99A, Government Housing Scheme, Ratmalana.

14. Hewa Warawitage Sumanarathna No.69A, Government Housing Scheme, Ratmalana. 15. Munasinghe Vidana Pathirannahalage Abeyrathna, No.41B, Government Housing Scheme, Ratmalana. 16. Ranjan Wijetunga No.55B, Government Housing Scheme, Ratmalana. 17. Ginthota Pathirana Vidanagae Malani Nanayakkara No.80A, Government Housing Scheme, Ratmalana. 18. Rathmalana Government Quarters Residence Welfare Socity Ltd, 69/ A, Government Quarters, Ratmalana.

Petitioners Vs. 1. A.L.Sisira Kumara, The Regional Director of Irrigation, The Office of the Regional Director of the Irrigation, P.O.Box 1514, Jawaththa Road, Colombo 5. 2. Hon Attorney General Attorney General's Department Colombo 12.

Respondents

4

Decided on 20.03.2013

S.Sriskandarajah, J,

The Ist to 17th Petitioners are residents of the Government Housing Scheme,

situated at Ratmalana, which is called as Irrigation Department Ratmalana Housing

Scheme. TheIst Petitioner is a government employee, attached to the Ministry of Power

and Energy. The 2nd Petitioner is a government employee, attached to the Department

of Commissioner of Motor Vehicles, the 3rd Petitioner is a government employee,

attached to the Department of Inland Revenue, the 4th Petitioner is a government

employee, attached to the Department of Immigration and Emigration, the 5th Petitioner

is a government employee, attached to the Ministry of Power and Energy, the 6th

Petitioner is a government employee, attached to the Land Commissioner Department,

the 7th Petitioner is a government employee, attached to the Immigration and

Emigration Department, the 8th Petitioner is a government employee, attached to the

Ministry of Coconut Development and Janatha Estate Development, the 9th Petitioner is

a government employee, attached to the Ministry of Minor Export, the lOth Petitioner is

a government employee, attached to the Survey Department, the 11th Petitioner is a

government employee, attached to the President's Secretariat, the 12th Petitioner is a

government employee, attached to the Inland Revenue Department, the 13th Petitioner

is a government employee, attached to the Petroleum Corporation, the 14th Petitioner is

a retired government employee, last attached to the Ministry of Agriculture

Development and Agrarian Services, the 15th Petitioner is a retired government

employee, last attached to the Ministry of Agriculture Development and Agrarian

Services, the 16th Petitioner is a retired government officer, last attached to the Land

Commissioner General's Department, and the 17th Petitioner is a retired government

employee, last attached to the Central Engineering Consultant Bureau.

The Petitioners submitted that they have been as government servants, allocated

government quarters by their respective departments. The said quarters, occupied by

5

the Petitioners, was constructed by the Irrigation Department, for the employees of the

then Department of Highway Equipment and Machinery, which was affiliated to the

Irrigation Department, upon the policy of the said Department of Highway Equipment

and Machinery, in or about 1985. The relevant ministry, viz., the Land and Land

Development, had transferred the Housing Scheme to the Ministry of Irrigation, Power

and Energy. The Ministry of Irrigation, Power and Energy, by its letter of 27/12/1995,

handed over the Housing Scheme to the Irrigation Department with effect from

1/01/1996. The Jst to the 17th Petitioners had gone into occupation of the said

government quarters on the basis that, at the time of their first occupation of the

quarters, they were employed at the Department of Irrigation. The 1st Respondent, the

Regional Director of Irrigation, contended that he was in charge of the said quarters

from January 1996. As the Petitioners are no longer in the services of the 1st

Respondent, and some of the Petitioners are now retired or are in occupation of the said

quarters for longer than 5 years, they became ineligible to remain in the said quarters by

virtue of Clauses 6-14 in Chapter IX of the Establishment Code and Chapter XV of the

Establishment Code. For the above reason, the 1st Respondent has taken action to evict

them and to take possession of the said quarters. For this reason he has issued quit

notice and, in certain cases, instituted action in the Magistrates Court as per the

provisions of the Government Quarters Recovery of Possession Act No.8 of 1981, as

amended. In the above circumstances, the 1st Respondent has acted within his powers

and has also acted reasonably in issuing quit notices to the Petitioners to take

possession of the said quarters. The contention of the Petitioners is that the said

quarters do not belong or is not under the control of the Irrigation Department, is not

supported by any evidence, and this Court has, on previous occasions held that these

quarters were under the control of the Irrigation Department, by its judgment in C.A.

(Writ) Application No.449/2003, C.A. Minutes of 25/04/2006 and C.A. (Writ)

Application No.1239/2004, C.A. Minutes of 25/04/2006, C.A. (Writ) Application

No.570/2002, C.A. Minutes of 24/04/2006.

6

In view of the above facts and circumstances, the Petitioners are not entitled to

seek a writ of certiorari to quash the quit notices marked as P51 to P67 and, therefore,

this Court dismisses this Application without cost.

President of the Court of Appeal