==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for orders in the

nature of writ of Certiorari and prohibition

under Article 140 of the Constitution.

Gnanawathie Edirisinghe,

Kagugahagodella,

Batuwangala,Neluwa, Galle.

Petitioner c.A. Writ Application No: 500/2008 Vs

BEFORE

COUNSEL

1. Ministry of Lands and Lands Development, "

Sampathpaya" No. 82, Rajamalwatta Road

Battaramulla.

2. Palitha Sisira Kumara Rathnayake

Weerakoon, Acting Divisional Secretary,

Divisional Secretariat, Neluwa.

3. Nimal Gunewardene, former Divisional

Secretary, Divisional Secretariat, Neluwa.

4. W.W.K.Withanage, Divisional Secretary,

Divisional Secretariat, Neluwa.

Respondents.

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J.

Dr. Almeida Gunaratne, PC with Lasitha Chaminde

for the Petitioner.

Vicum de Abrew SSC

for the Respondents.

1! !

Ii

I I \ ! f It

\ f !III I f

f

I I i l I I i ! 1 j

j I 1 ! 1

i

Argued on

Decided on

S.Sriskandarajah, J,

08.11.2010

21.02.2011

2

The Petitioner submitted that on or about 17th September 2003 permission was sought

from the petitioner to use a portion of the Petitioners property as a temporary access

road to a housing scheme constructed on foreign funds for flood victims. This request

was made by the Acting Divisional Secretary by letter dated 18.09.2003. The said houses

were constructed by February 2004 and an access road to the said houses was opened

through another property which was an unused paddy -field and work upon that road

was completed. Despite the fact that this road was used by the occupants of the

Housing scheme steps were taken to acquire a portion of the Petitioner's land used for

the temporary access to the said houses.

The petitioner contended that permission given by the Petitioner to use her land as an

access route was only on a temporary basis. When there is an alternative access route to

the said houses, cutting a sixteen feet wide access road which will affect the whole of

the Petitioner's land comprising of 3A.3R.6P is irrational and arbitrary and/ or

inferentially prompted by improper motive. The Petitioner further contended that there

is no public purpose as envisaged by the Land Acquisition Act to be achieved and also

the land in question being a rubber cultivated land the very intention to acquire it as

being required for urgent possession is misconceived and ultra vires the intent and

purpose of the Land Acquisition Act. The Petitioner submitted that in all the

circumstances of the case, the Respondents individually and collectively are in breach of

the concept of public trust.

The 1st and 2nd Respondents submitted that only a small stretch of land is needed to

make an access road for a segment of people affected by floods in 2003, who were

resettled by the government on an adjacent State Land called and known as

\ I , I i! f t I I I I I I I r

3

'Kurunduwatte'. The stretch of land required is in extent of 21.8 perches from the

Petitioner's land of 3A 3R 6P a state land made available to the Petitioner by an

executive grant.

It is evident from the submissions of the Respondents that nearly 40 families displaced

by floods in 2003 were to be allotted plots of land at 'Kurunduwatte'. The Police

Department had undertaken to construct 20 houses in order to resettle the affected

families. At the stage of construction of these houses an access road to the said land was

opened over the Petitioners Land with the consent of the Petitioner to facilitate the

construction of the houses. This shows that there is no convenient access road available

to the said land to transport materials to construct houses. There cannot be any rubber

plants in this stretch of Petitioner's land as this stretch was used as access road for the

construction of houses in the land at 'Kurunduwatte' even on a temporary basis. Hence

the Petitioner's contention that acquiring this stretch of land will affect her rubber

cultivation has no merit. Even if the Petitioner's position is that she is going to suffer

loss she could submit the same at the compensation inquiry.

The Petitioner cannot question the decision of the Minister that a land is needed for a

public purpose, it is a decision entrusted to the Minister by the statute and the question

whether the land should be acquired is one of policy to be determined by the Minister

and therefore cannot be questioned by a Court of Law, Mendis v Jayaratne, Minister of

Agriculture, Lands and Forestry, [1997]2 Sri L.R 215, Hewawasam Gamage v Minister of

Lands 76 N.L.R 25. But subsequent development in law as interpreted and pronounced

by judiciary a decision to acquire a land by the Minister could be questioned if it is

against the public trust doctrine. In this instant case the Petitioner cannot rely on the

violation of public trust doctrine as the stretch of land is acquired for the purpose of a

roadway which is necessary for a hosing scheme of over 40 families.

I ,

r J I I, I

I

I I

f 1 1

! j ! I I

1 I J I I I I I I I ! I 1 1 1

4

The Petitioner has not alleged mala fides on any person in the acquisition of the said

land and it is not expressly pleaded Gunasinghe v Hon. Gamini Dissanayake, and others,

[1994J 2 Sri L R 132 therefore this court could presume that the acquisition is bona fida

and all official acts have been done in accordance with law.

It is settle law that an order by the Minister under the proviso (a) of Section 38 of the

Land Acquisition Act can be made only in case of urgency and an order made under

this provision can be reversed by the Court only if there is no urgency. It is however a

matter for the Petitioner who seeks the remedy by way of certiorari to satisfy Court that

there was in fact no urgency and her application cannot succeed should she fail to do so

Mendis v Jayaratne, Minister of Agriculture Lands and Forestry [1997J2 Sri L R 215.

In Marie Indira Fernandopulle and Another, v E. L. Senanayake, Minister of Lands and

Agriculture,79 (II) N.L.R 115. The Supreme Court held:

"No doubt primarily the Minister decided urgency. He it is who is in possession of the

facts and his must be the reasoning. But the Courts have a duty to review the matter. In

this case the need for a playground and a farm had been mooted as far back as 1974.

Political influences and extraneous forces delayed the takeover of the land.

Four years dragged on and school's needs were still waiting to be met. The delay and

the need decided the urgency. These being the facts the petitioner has failed to satisfy

me that there was no urgency. I would therefore dismiss the application with costs."

In this application also the delay in acquiring the land by the Petitioner challenging the

acquisition at the stage of Section (2) notice and obtaining a stay order has delayed the

normal process of acquisition. The delay and the need decided the urgency of acquiring

this stretch of land for a road way. As the Petitioner has not established that there is no

urgency in acquiring this land this court dismisses this application without costs.

/- ,/./~ . ./'fudge of the Court of Appeal