==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Nandiratna Durage Jayalath

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

CA. 171/2008

(H.C. Galle 2534/2005)

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

RESPONDENT

Indika Mallawarachchi for the Accused-Appellant

Wasantha Navaratne Bandara A.S.G. P.c., for the Respondent

13.05.2014

03.07.2014

1

Il

t

Jt

2

GOONERATNE J.

Two Accused were indicted in the High Court of Galle on charge of

murder against the 1st Accused and the 2nd charge against the 2nd Accused for

aiding and abetting the 1st Accused to commit murder of the deceased named

in count No. 1. The trial Judge acquitted the 2nd Accused on the 2nd count,

leveled against him. The prosecution case very briefly is that over a dispute on

a parapet wall/fence where one party allege encroachment, the incident of

murder had taken place on or about 18.4.2000. Three lay witness inclusive of

the deceased's mother gave evidence for the prosecution. Witness No. (1) &

(2) more or less provided circumstantial evidence whilst witness No. (3) gave

direct evidence of stabbing by the 1st Accused of the deceased, in front of a

common friend's house of either party, called Dinesh.

The 1st Accused-Appellant made dock statement, from which a

sudden fight had been projected. Learned counsel for the Appellant presents

her main argument to this court based on the dicta in James Vs. Republic of Sri

Lanka and demonstrated to court that the trial Judge in rejecting or

disbelieving the material contained in the dock statement and the evidence

surfaced therein had compared the prosecution version and evidence of the

3

prosecution evidence. If that be so and if it relates to a material aspect of the

case of murder, same would be a misdirection of the trial Judge.

To demonstrate the question of sudden fight learned counsel for the

Appellant drew the attention of court to the items of evidence at pgs 126, 129,

130 (exchange of words) 137. When we carefully examine that aspect eye

witness had rejected the position of a sudden fight, and had given clear

evidence of stabbing by the Accused-Appellant. We also find the incident of

murder being corroborated by other circumstantial evidence.

The learned Addl. Solicitor General argued that the evidence that

transpired in the trial court does not suggest any kind of sudden fight. He also

emphasized the fact that the Accused-Appellant surrendered to the police. The

case of the prosecution is supported by sound evidence and supported by

motive. The main witness's version is corroborated by medical evidence and

the witness was able to reject the defence position without any hesitation.

When we consider the entirety of evidence placed before the trial

court it is argued that the incident of murder had been established by the

prosecution evidence, and the defence had not been able to create a

reasonable doubt to get any benefit. In the dock statement of the Accused-

Appellant it is stated:

4

(a) Dispute over a parapet wall or boundary;

(b) In order to settle the dispute police had informed the Accused to be

present in the police station at about 2.00 p.m.

(c) As such Accused left for work and had the intention of going to the police.

Thereafter left the house at about 8.30 a.m.

(d) In front of the house of Dinesh (Wit No.3) the deceased with 4/5 others

attacked the Accused with clubs. The Accused in order to get out of this

problem ran towards the police and on the way picked up a knife and went

to the police along with it. The 2

nd Accused came on a push cycle and along

with him went to the police.

The trial Judge no doubt has examined the dock statement very

carefully. Learned Trial Judge observes that the incident occurred due to a

dispute pertaining to a wall as stated in the dock statement. He merely

observe that witnesses No.1 & 2 also testified to that effect.

The trial Judge also stated that according to the evidence of witness

No.3 Dinesh, the incident occurred in front of his house. The Accused also

admits this fact in the dock statement. What is important as relied upon by the

defence is whether on the material aspects as to whether the trial Judge made

any comparison with the prosecution case? In this regard we cannot find any

comparison since the trial Judge specifically states (229) that the Accused by

his statement exclude the incident of stabbing and went towards the police

IlI ,

[

f

5

and picked a knife. Trial Judge refer to the statement and states that the

Accused by rejecting or excluding the incident of stabbing, the trial Judge gave

his mind to the fact as to why the Accused took the knife to the police, when

he does not refer to any act of stabbing. Based on Section 27 statement of the

Evidence Ordinance, made to the police by the Accused the knife (Pl) was

recovered. On the above basis the trial Judge reject or disbelieve the Accused-

Appellant's version. It is the position of the trial Judge that based on the

Accused dock statement and the statement made to the police as per Section

27 of the Evidence Ordinance, appellant's version is disbelieved. A careful

examination of the trial Judge's findings amply demonstrate that rejection of

the Accused's version is based solely on his testimony. The place of incident

and motive are only ancillary factors, and facts admitted by both parties. As

such we are not inclined to accept the position that the learned High Court

Judge had misdirected on the lines suggested in the dicta of James Vs. the

Republic of Sri Lanka. As presented to this court, defence' version would not

be capable of creating any doubt in the prosecution case. It must also be kept

in mind that a special defence or a general exception vest the burden of proof

on the defence. In this instance that burden had not been discharged by the

Accused party, of the alleged sudden fight.

I! i I

6

We have also noted the evidence of the deceased's mother (1 W)

who testified about a previous incident between the Accused and witness No.

2 (2 W), who is the brother of the deceased regarding the parapet wall. It is

her evidence that the parties had another incident and a police complaint had

been lodged. Police had requested the parties to be present in the police

station. The witness had as narrated in her evidence, deceased went to the

house of wit. No.3 which was in very close proximity. At that moment the

witness saw the Accused going with a knife and in anticipation of another

altercation the witness had also gone in the same direction, and she saw the

deceased coming with blood stains in his body. She also saw the Accused going

away with the 2

nd Accused on a push cycle. The utterance made by the witness

is also recorded. The above evidence had been confirmed by witness No.2.

The evidence testified by both witnesses No.1 & 2 are strong circumstantial

evidence. The evidence of witness No.3 is direct evidence.

In all the above circumstances the prosecution has established the

case beyond reasonable doubt, on the basis of strong direct and circumstantial

evidence. The material elicited for the defence of sudden fight, has not been

proved, in the manner as urged by learned counsel for the accused-Appellant.

Nor can we hold that the dicta in James Vs. Republic of Sri Lanka could be

I

7

made to apply to this case in the context and circumstances of this case.

Therefore we affirm the conviction and sentence of the learned High Court

Judge, and proceed to dismiss this appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

I

r