==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

7

C.A.No : 32/2013

H. C. Badulla Case No : 56/1996

BEFORE H. N. J. Perera, J. &

K. K. Wickramasinghe, J

In the matter of an Appeal against

an order of the High COLI t under

Sec. 331 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure Act No. 15 of 1979.

Velu Govindasamy,

Bogambara Prison,

Kandy.

ACCUSE I-Appellant

v.

The Hon. Attorney Gene -al

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

l:espondent

1

,

COUNSEL Sharon Seresinhe for the Accused-Appellant. Wasantha Navaratne ASG., PC for the Attorney Gener.J .

ARGUED ON 26th February 2015

DECIDED ON 28th May 2015

K. K. WICKRAMASINGHE, J.

The accused appellant (Velu Govindasami) was indicted at the High Court of Badu "a for having

committed the death of Perumal Maradei, on or about 08.04.1995, thereby c(I'llmitting an

offence punishable under Sec. 296 of the Penal Code. He was convicted of lUrder and

sentenced to death on 12.02.2013.This case was tried by the judge without a jury.

This appeal is against the said conviction and the sentence.

According to the version of the prosecution, the incident happened as follows;

Perumal Maradei (the deceased) was a 'Kankani' living in the Haputale Estate, He r'utale. Velu

Govindasami (the accused appellant) was a labourer living next to the deceased's house in the

same line of houses consisting seven adjoining houses (illeima"). Deceased's house vias the first

and the accused appellant's house was the second. Both the houses were separatf:': by a single

short wall and a wooden grill/ trellis.

In the previous night of the day before the incident the accused appellant Wil. drunk and

scolded the deceased's family loudly mentioning their cast (the deceased belong, to a lower

cast). Although the deceased belonged to a lower cast, he was holding a higher I lk than the

accused appellant (Kankani). The accused appellant had asked them to come out.

2

However, none of the people in that set of houses had come out. Therefor, no quarrel

occurred in that night.

On the following day morning, which was the day of the incident in question, - . ~ deceased

advised the accused appellant saying not to scold them again in the way he did la!t night. After

that both the deceased and the accused appellant went to work. In the afternoor" It about 12

or 12.30 pm the deceased and his wife Nallamma came home for lunch. Then ile accused

appellant came drunk and called the deceased. He was carrying a black colour club It that time

the deceased, his wife, their son (Maradei Ravichandran) and the mother of the d, ~ased were

at home. Then the accused appellant assaulted the head of the deceased with tl club. After

receiving the blow, the deceased fell down. The accused appellant assaulted th' land of the

deceased's wife with the same club. The accused appellant had fled from the S( Ie with the

gathering of the crowd.

The police, on their way to the place of incident arrested the accused appellant Whlll he was on

his way home, for assaulting the deceased. However, at the time of arrest ~ile accused

appellant also had bleeding injuries on both of his hands. The deceased, his injur2d wife, the

injured accused appellant were taken to the hospital by the police. The deceased 5l.I:cumbed to

his injuries on his way to the hospital

The grounds for appeal urged by the learned counsel for the accused appellant are ; follows:-

I. The court has not properly evaluated the evidence of the prosecution witnl~sses when

there were serious doubts caused of their credibility and has not properly considered

the following strong contradictions and omissions when deciding the case;

a. The son of the deceased (Maradei Ravichandran) has given two VE'" ;ions of the

incident- In the evidence-in-chief he stated that the deceased Nas having

lunch in the kitchen when the accused appellant came and called I- im. He saw

the accused appellant hitting/ giving a blow to the deceased' lead. Then

Nallamma shouted and came out from the kitchen.

3

,

In the cross-examination and in the High Court he has stated that after lunch

the deceased was sleeping in his room. When the accused appe,lIc nt shouted

"Maradei come out", he came out and then he was hit on the head by the

accused.

b. The wife of the deceased in her evidence-in-chief stated that wi ) she came

from the kitchen to the house, the accused appellant was there a he hit her,

she fell down and then the deceased came there. When the de 3sed came,

the accused appellant gave a blow to his head with a club.

c. The wife of the deceased stated that the accused appellant, ,aulted the

deceased while the deceased was in the kitchen.

d. The son of the deceased did not say that the accused appellant hit I Jallamma.

e. According to Nallamma the accused appellant hit her first c d then the

deceased came to the scene and then he hit him.

f. Nallamma does not give a proper answer when questioned as 1 the motive

for the alleged killing. She states that the Appellant was Irunk. The

independent/Medical evidence does not reveal that he was drunl tc.

When considering the contradictions pOinted out, by the counsel for the accused Ipellant we

have to consider whether these contradictions are material or not. These witn b ses are lay

witnesses who are uneducated, disturbed and they were giving evidence in the high court after

lOyrs. Even at the police station their state of mind was disturbed and at a time vti" ~re a death

of the closest inmate had taken place. Therefore one cannot give evidence as • they were

televising the incident. All these witnesses are human beings. As judges we mu!' :onsider all

these aspects. Further we must see whether these contradictions go to the root of e charge.

In the case of Samaraweera V AG (CA 64/87 Decided on May 7, 1990) it v ; held that

It ............... The maxim falsus in uno falsus in omnibus could not be applied in such c Furthermore all falsehood is not deliberate. Errors of memory, faulty observation u or points, exaggeration or mere embrOidery or embellishment must be dis tin deliberate falsehood before applying the maxim ..... The credibility of witnesses can

'lmstances.

n any point ;shed from 'treated as

4

divisible and accepted against one and rejected against another. The jury or judge must decide for themselves whether that part of the testimony which is found to be false taint! ,lIe whole or

whether the false can safely be separated fram the truth."

learned ASG has submitted in his written submissions and medical evidence in '" I 'ch it amply

demonstrates the version of the prosecution witnesses. According to medical I • dence, the

deceased had received only one blow to the head, which amounts a to a fatal ir • ry. Witness

Ravichandran had mentioned that the accused appellant dealt a blow to the '. ead of the

deceased only once. Ravichandran had identified the club with specifications (Leith spikes).

Furthermore, the medical officer had categorically mentioned that the injury re, ved by the

deceased caused by the club produced as Pi.The cause of death was due 1 shock and

hemorrhage due to fracture of the skull. The Pi was taken into custody by the 'westigating

officer who gave evidence stated that he had taken the above mentioned production into his

custody from the house of the accused appellant.

The lay witness Saroja who was a neighbor of the deceased who had come out ;, tter hearing

the noise had seen the deceased fallen on the ground and the accused appel " It standing

beside him with a club in his hand. Upon seeing the witness and others approach

of incident the accused appellant had taken to his heels. This evidence of the

witness has not been challenged by the defense. Her evidence corroborates th,

Ravichandran.

~ the scene

dependent

!vidence of

According to the evidence, the police also found stains of green paint on the club which was

similar to the paint found on the roof of the house of the deceased. It also had stains similar to

the colour of the broken tiles of the roof of the house of the deceased. The police had noticed a

slight damage caused to the roof of the deceased.

Eventhough prosecution lay witnesses have not observed cut injuries on the fir " ~rs of both

hands of the accused appellant the police officer had observed it.

When considering the evidence of the above mentioned lay witnesses, the rule: 'i out in the

case of Siripala V AG (CA99/200S) has to be born in mind, his lordship Justice Abr ", observed

that "/ state here that there is no rule in Criminal Law of Evidence that what wa:; seen by one

5

•

witness should be necessarily seen by other witness. I must state here that what (one may see may not be seen by others". This view is supported by the decision in the case of e,hoginbhai Vs

State of Gujarat (AIR 1983 SC 753) where as the Indian Supreme Court held thlls "by and or large a witness cannot be expected to possess 0 photographic memory and recal/le details of an incident .It is not as if a video tape is replayed on the mental screen. 11' power of observation differs fram person to person what one may notice another may not".

The contradictions marked do not run to the root of the case. It is stated in Wick I' nasuriya V

Dodalina by Hon. Justice FND Jayasuriya in Case No CA 172/84. It was helc that "if the contradiction is not of that character the court ought to accept the evidence of witnesses whose evidence is otherwise cogent having regard to the test of probability and having regard to his demeanor and deportment manifest by witnesses. Trivial contradictions which do not touch the core of a party's case should not be given much significance, "

The accused appellant had given a different version to the facts suggested to thl~ prosecution

witnesses in their cross examination. At this point it is important to note His lo'"dship Justice

Abrew's citation of the observation of the Indian Supreme Court made in Sarwan SinghVs Sate

of Punjab( AIR (2002) SC 3652) in Siripala Vs AG (CA 99/2005). "It is a rule of es ,ential justice that whenever the opponent has decline to avail himself of the opportunity to p It his case in crass examination. It must follow that the evidence tendered on that issue ought '0 accepting"

Court of Appeal held that the defense of alibi was an afterthought.

For the above mentioned reasons we see no reason to interfere with the judgment of the

learned High Court Judge. Therefore we affirm the conviction and the sentence of the accused

appellant imposed by the High Court of Badulla dated 12.02.2013.

Hereby the appeal is dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

H N J Perera J

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

6