==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Yahalawela Vidanalage Gunadasa Appuhamy,

Accused -Appellant

C.A. Appeal No. 66/2011

H.C. Embilipitiya No. 220/06

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General,

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

Respondent

Before SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J. &

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA, J.

Counsel Dr. Ranjit Fernando for the Accused-

Appellant.

B. Aluvihare ASG, PC for the State.

Argued &

Decided on 15.10.2013.

1

2

Sisira J. de Abrew, J.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted for abducting and

raping a woman named Sunethra Dayanganie. On the first count

(charge of abduction) he was sentenced to a term of three years

rigorous imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs. 2500/- carrying a

default sentence of three months simple imprisonment. On the

charge of rape he was sentenced to a term of 10 years rigorous

imprisonment, to pay a fine of Rs. 5,000/- carrying a default

sentence of six months simple imprisonment and to pay a sum of Rs.

50,000/- as compensation to the alleged victim carrying a default

sentence of 01 year simple imprisonment. The facts of this case as

narrated by the prosecution witness may be briefly summarized as

follows.

The accused-appellant in this case was known to the prosecutrix .

Infact the accused-appellant was the attesting witness of the

wedding of the prosecutrix and her husband. On the day of the

incident around 11 p.rn six people had entered the house and three

of them dragged her out of the house. She identified the three people

3

as the accused-appellant and the 2nd and 3rd accused in the

indictment. According to her she was raped by the accused-

appellant. Although she claims that she was raped by the accused-

appellant surprisingly she did not tell her husband as to who raped

her. Her husband Podi Appuhamy in his evidence admitted that she

even later did not tell him the name of the rapist. She admits in

her evidence, that she did not tell the name of the rapist to the Police

Officer who recorded her statement. In short, in her statement made

to the police she had not told that the 1 st accused raped her. She

was examined by the Doctor on 2nd of November 2000 ( following day

of the incident.) In the short history given by her to the doctor

she has mentioned names of the accused-appellant's and the two

accused as the person who entered her house. But she failed to state

in the short history that the accused appellant raped her. What did

she say in the short history? An,t unidentified person forced her to

have sexual intercourse with him. According to the Doctor who

examined her she had told that an unidentified person raped her.

The accused appellant was known to her for about 10 years. If an

unidentified person raped her it can't be the accused appellant who

raped her. The above items of evidence clearly show that the

prosecutrix had not identified the 1 st accused as a person who raped

her. This clearly shows that the identity of the accused-appellant

has not been established by the prosecution beyond reasonable

4

doubt. The learned trial judge who convicted the accused-appellant

has failed to consider these matters. We are unable to understand as

to how the learned trial judge convicted the accused-appellant when

this evidence was placed before her.

When we consider all the above matters, we hold that the

prosecution had not proved its case beyond reasonable doubt. The

Learned Additional Solicitor General, President's Counsel Mr.

Aluvihare upholding the best traditions of the Attorney-General's

Department admits that he is unable to support the conviction.

For the above reasons, we set aside both convictions and

punishments imposed on the accused-appellant and acquit the

accused -appellan t.

We state here that the Commissioner General of Prisons is not

entitled to keep the accused-appellant In his custody when he

receives the judgment of this Court. It IS not necessary for the

Prison Authorities to produce the accused-appellant before the High

Court Judge and get a release order. We direct the Commissioner

General of Prisons to release the accused-appellant when he receives

5

the copy of this judgment. The Registrar of this Court is directed to

send a copy of this Judgment to the Commissioner General of Prisons

stating that this Court had set aside the conviction and acquitted

the accused-appellant.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

/mds