==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI

LANKA

Ratnayake Mudiyanselage Gunaratne Okkampitiya Settlement,

Maligawila, Okkampitiya

Petitioner

C.A.Writ Application

No. 406/2011

vs

V.U.K. Agalawatta,

Before:

Counsel:

Argued on:

Decided on:

Sunil Rajapakse, J.,

Divisional Secretary, Buttala & 4 others

Respondents

S. Sriskandarajah J, P/C.A.,

Sunil Rajapakse J.,

Shantha Jayawardena with Duleeka lmbuldeniya for the

Petitioner.

Ms S. Hettiarachchi for the 4th Respondent

25th September 2012

18th March 2013

This is a matter under the provisions of Land Development Ordinance and

the Petitioner in his application seeks following reliefs as prayed for by the

1

Petitioner in his petition.

a)'a mandate in the nature of a writ of certiorari quashing P7;

b) writ of certiorari quashing the nomination of the 4th

Respondent as the successor for the entire paddy land;

c) writ or certiorari quashing the registration of P7 in P8;

2

d) writ in the nature of writ of prohibition, prohibiting the 1st

Respondent from permitting the 4th Respondent to exercise

right over the entire paddy land;

e) writ of prohibition, prohibiting the 1st to 3rd Respondents

from issuing a Permit and/or grant to the 4th Respondent in

respect of the paddy land referred to in the schedule to P1,

based on P7 and/or P8;

f) writ of mandamus directing the 1st and/or 2nd Respondents

to issue permit or grant to the Petitioner under Land

Development Ordinance in respect of 1 Yz acres of the paddy

land referred to in the schedule to P1;

The facts of this case are briefly summarised as follows:

The Petitioner in his petition says that his father Punchi Banda

was the original owner of the land which is the subject matter of this

application. Petitioner submitted that his father Punchi Banda died on 28th

of June 2005 and his mother Menika passed away on 5th December 1995.

Petitioner's sister Ratnayake Mudiyanselage Somawathie (3rd nominee in

the aforesaid nomination) also died on 29th December 2002 at the Cancer

Institute Maharagama. The Petitioner contended that his father had been

initially issued with a Permit under the Land Development Ordinance and

his father nominated the Petitioner, the 4th Respondent and the

Petitioner's sister Somawathie as successors to the said disputed paddy

land by entering their names in the prescribed form issued under the Land

Development Ordinance for that purpose. This nomination was duly

registered at the Land Registry under No. LDO/M4155. The Petitioner

contended that after the death of his father disputes arose between the

Petitioner and the 4th Respondent. As the 4th Respondent claimed that

their father Punchi Banda, prior to his death had nominated him as the

successor to the entire extent of the paddy land. Further he stated that he

found another nomination dated 20.07.2005 which was registered at the

Land Registry on 25.07.2005. In that nomination Punchi Banda had

cancelled the earlier nomination and nominated only the 4th Respondent

3

as the successor in respect of the entire paddy land. In this case the

Petitioner's main contention is that as his father died on 28.06.2005, there

was no way in which the second nomination could have been made and

signed by his father on 20.07.2005. Second nomination (P7) was registered

at the Land Registry on 25.07.2005.

The Petitioner contended that under the provisions of Land

Development Ordinance a nomination must be made during the lifetime of

the owner by Section 60 of the said Ordinance. Therefore, nomination of

a successor must be registered before the death of the owner of the

holding or the Permit holder.

The 4th Respondent in his objection admitted that his father

Punchi Banda had passed away on 28.06.2005. Further he stated that his

father Punchi Banda had cancelled the earlier nomination before his death

and nominated him as the new successor to the disputed land. Further, he

claims that he has not perpetrated any fraud as stated in the Petitioner's

petition. The 4th Respondent's contention is that his father Punchi Banda

had cancelled the earlier nomination and he nominated him (the 4th

Respondent) as the successor to the disputed entire land.

However, in this case, the 4h Respondent' position is that he

was nominated a successor to his father. Further he says under the Land

Development Ordinance he is the legal successor to the entire paddy land

under Permit/Grant by virtue of the provisions of the Land Development

Ordinance . Therefore the 4th Respondent claims that the decision of the 1st

Respondent naming the 4th Respondent as. the successor to the said land is

not unlawful and ultra vires. But the court holds that this submission

cannot be substantiated by the provisions of the Land Development

Ordinance.

The main point argued by the learned Counsel for the

Petitioner was that the registration of the nomination of the 4th

Respondent in respect of the entire paddy land is invalid in terms of Section

60 of the Land Development Ordinance.

Section 60 of the Land Development Ordinance enacts that

4

•

"No nomination or cancellation of a successor shall be valid unless the

document (other than a Lastwill) effecting such nomination or cancellation

is duly registered before the date of the death of the owner of the holding

or Permit Holder."

In this case both Petitioner and the 4th Respondent admitted

that the owner of the said disputed land passed away by 28th June

2005. It was further proved by document PS (the death certificate of

Punchi Banda). Further, the 4th Respondent in his written submissions

admitted that document P7 had been registered after the death of

Punchi Banda, the original Permit Holder. One of the questions that arose

before the Court was whether the said document marked P7 was a valid

document in terms of Section 60 of the Land Development Ordinance.

After evaluating the submissions made by the Petitioner and the

Respondents, the Court holds that Puchi Banda (the original Permit Holder)

died on 28th June 2005 and the document marked P7 was registered at the

Land Registry on 25th July 2005, after the death of Punchi Banda.

In this regard I would like to cite following authorities:

Gunadasa vs Marywathy- 2012(BLR pg.248). It was held :

"According to Section 60 of the Land Development Ordinance,

referred to above nomination could become effective only if such

nomination or cancellation is duly registered before the date of the

death of the owner of the holding or the Permit Holder".

5

• 6

In Madurasinghe vs Madurasinghe -1998 2 SLR 142. It was held that

the successor under the Land Development Ordinance has to be considered

in terms of Section 60 of the said Ordinance.

Therefore, it is evident that it is necessary to apply the

provisions contained in Section 60 of the Land Development Ordinance.

to the facts of this case.

On the basis of document marked P7, the 4th Respondent's

name had been entered into the Register of Permit/Grant under Land

Development Ordinance on 25.7.2005. The original Permit Holder Puchi

Banda died on 28.06.2005. It is obvious that the nomination of the 4th

Respondent and cancellation of Petitioner's name had been registered

after the death of Punchi Bnda who was the original Permit Holder.

Therefore, the Court holds that document marked P7 is invalid and illegal

In terms of Section 60 of the Land Development Ordinance ..

In all the above circumstances, this Court grants a writ of certiorari

under prayer (c), (d), (e) and (f) of this application without costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Sriskandarajah J.,

I agree.

PRESIDENT- COURT OF APPEAL