==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA(PHC)208/04

HC Balapitiya 149/02

MC Elpitiya 74344

~--

Before : A.W.A. Salam, J. &

Sunil Rajapaksha, J.

H.D. Hewage Weerasinghe,

Dharmarama Mawatha,

Palihena, Pitigala.

Respondent-Respondent-

Appellant.

Vs.

Indipalage Chandrika.

Applicant-Appellant-Respondent.

Counsel : Eshara Wellala for the Respondent-Respondent-

Appellant ad Sisira K. Siriwardane for the Respondent.

Argued on :14.11.2013

Decided on :28.01.2014

A.W.A. Salam, J.

This is an appeal preferred by the Respondent-Respondent-

Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant) against the

judgment of the High Court dated 09.03.20004 delivered in the

Page 11

ifi t

exercise of its appellate jurisdiction over an order entered by the

learned Magistrate in terms of the Maintenance Act No.37 of 1999.

A preliminary objection was raised by the Applicant-Appellant-

Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the Respondent) as regards _0' Page I 2 the maintainability of the appeal, in that she took up the position

that the Appellant is not entitled to maintain the appeal as against

the express Provisions relating to the procedure laid down in respect

of appeals to be preferred against the judgment of the High Court

delivered in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction over the orders

entered in terms of the Maintenance Act.

It is settled law that the right of appeal IS a Statutory right and

must be expressly created and granted by Statute. In terms of the

Maintenance Act an appeal shall lie to the Supreme Court from the

judgment of the High Court pronounced in the exercise of appellate

jurisdiction under the Maintenance Act. Even though the Appellant

has obtained leave from the High Court to prefer an appeal against

the judgment pronounced in the exercise of appellate jurisdiction by

the High Court, he had failed to comply with the rules laid down in

regard to the mode of referring an appeal, namely to file an appeal

within a period of six weeks of the impugnec;l order. In the

circumstances, it is my considered opinion that the appeal preferred

by the Appellant to this Court cannot be maintained. The

preliminary objection is therefore upheld and the appeal dismissed

subject to costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

Sunil Rajapaksha, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

NRj-