==== BLOCKS ==== 

i

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

C.A.No.104/2011

H.C.Kegalle No.2196/05

C.A.No.104/2011

Before

Counsel

W.D.Weerarathe alias

Kande Lamaya

Appellant.

Vs.

The Attorney-General

Respondent.

H.C. Kegalle No.2196/05

Sisira J. de Abrew,J.( PICA) and

P.W.D.C.Jayathilaka, J.

Tenny Fernando for the Accused -

Apellant

Dilan Rathnayake SSC for the A.G.

1

1 I t t I l

~ t

1 j I

J i f I I I

Argued and

Decided on

Sisira J de Abrew,J ( PICA)

2

07.03.2014

Accused - appellant produced by the Prison Authorities is

present in Court.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted of the

murder of a man named Somarathe and was sentenced to death.

Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence he has

appealed to this Court. Facts of this case may be briefly

summarised as follows:

On the day of the incident when the accused-appellant

was going on the road using filthy language, the deceased person

came to the road and addressed him in the following language.

"There are children do not use filthy language". Thereafter there

was an exchange of words between the two. Then the accused-

3

j I 1 i

appellant came up to the deceased person and inflicted one stab

injury on his chest. This was witnessed by Indika Rajapakshe.

Indika Rajapakshe says that both the deceased person and the

accused were under the influence of liquor. When we consider

these matters we feel that the accused-appellant should have

been convicted of the offence of culpable homicide not amounting

to murder on the basis of sudden fight. Learned Trial Judge has

failed to consider this aspect. Learned Senior State Counsel

admits that the accused - appellant should have been convicted

of the offence of culpable homicide not amounting to murder on

the basis of sudden fight. Considering these matters we set aside

the conviction and the death sentence of the accused-appellant

and substitute a verdict of culpable homicide not amounting to

murder on basis of sudden fight which is an offence punishable

under Section 297 of the Penal Code. The accused -appellant in

his dock statement stated that he has been on remand for the

offence for 09 years. When we examine the Magistrate's Court

record, we find that the accused-appellant has been on remand

from 2003 onwards. Learned counsel for the accused-appellant

submits that the accused-appellant has been on remand form the

date of arrest pertaining to this offence. Learned Senior State

J

~ I ! I }

4

Cousel does not dispute the above submission. Considering all

these matters we sentence the accused-appellant to a term of 10

years rigorous imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs.2,500/=

carrying a default sentence of 3 months simple imprisonment.

We direct the prison Authorities to implement the sentence from

the date of sentencing by the learned Trial Judge (19/7 / 2011).

Subject to the above variation of the verdict and the

sentence the appeal of the appellant is dismissed.

Verdict altered.

PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P. W .D.C.Jayathilaka,J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

WC/-