==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

High Court {Badulla}

Case No:188/2003

CA 241/09

In the matter of a petition of appeal in

terms of section 331{1} of the code of

criminal Procedure Act No 15 of 1979

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

Lanka

Complainant

Vs

Saman Upulsena

Accused

And

Saman Upulsena

Accused Appellant

Vs

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

Lanka

Complainant Respondent

1

I

j 1

~ j 1

~ \ I

\

I i I I

i 1 !

1 j

j

1

I

J I I

I 1 I

BEFORE A.W.A.SALAM, J (PICA)

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J

COUNSEL Rienzie Arsekularathne P.C with T. Koralage

for the Accused Appellant.

Vijith Malalgoda P.C, A.S.G. for the

Respondent

Argued On 05.06.2014 & 09.06.2014

Decided On 19.06.2014

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake J.

Wegama Punyasara Thero alias Gamhewayalage Samantha Upulsena, the

Accused Appellant has been charged with raping Aththanayake

Mudiyanselage Swarnamali Aththanayake a girl less than 16 years of age on

28.03.1988, under Sec. 364(2) e of the Penal Code. He has been convicted

after trial and sentenced to 10 years Rigorous Imprisonment and a fine of

Rs: 7500.00, carrying a default sentence of 2 years simple imprisonment.

2

1 I I ! I 1 I ) I

1 i

1

J I

1 I

I

Further it has been ordered to pay Rs: 2, 50000.00 as compensation to the

victim girl, carrying a default sentence of 4 years Rigorous Imprisonment.

Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence, the Accused

Appellant has made this appeal.

Swarnamali who was a 10 year old school girl by 28.03.1998 which was the

date of the incident referred to in the charge, had gone to the temple where

the Accused Appellant was residing to learn Mathematics from the Accused

Appellant. She had gone with her two younger sisters. The time was 2.00' 0

clock in the afternoon. Then the Accused Appellant taught Maths to all three

girls. After some time, Accused Appellant asked Swarnamali to go to his

room to teach a Maths paper which was difficult to her. Then she was asked

to sit on the bed and the door was made ajar. Thereafter, Accused Appellant

raised the frock and got on her body. Swarnamali had felt as if her female

organ was thrust with something pointed. The Medical Officer who had

examined Swarnamali 3 days after the incident, namely 01.04.1998 had

expressed his opinion that suggestive penetration into vagina was present.

The doctor had observed fresh hymen tears and a contusion in vestibule.

The learned President's Counsel appeared for the Accused Appellant has

raised several points in his arguments in two different aspects, namely

technical and defacto.

3

The trial of this case had commenced on 17.02.2005 before the High Court

Judge of Provincial High Court of Uwa. Evidence of the prosecution case had

been closed on 16.03.2006. When the learned trial judge had decided to call

for the defence an application was made by the Defence Counsel for an

adjournment for a long date for calling defence evidence. Accordingly

further trial was postponed for 23.05.2006. The Accused Appellant made a

dock statement and defence case was closed on the said date. The further

trial had been proceeded on 29.05.2006 and 28.06.2006 for the addresses of

the prosecuting counsel and the Defence Counsel. While the Defence

Counsel was on her feet on 27.09.2006, following two postponements

namely 24.07.2006 and 04.09.2006 making submission the learned State

Counsel appearing for the prosecution had intervened and made an

application to re-call the Medical Officer to lead further evidence. There had

been an argument over the said application and, the trial judge having

listened to submissions by both parties for several days had reserved his

order on the said matter for 20.10.2006.

The reason submitted by the learned state counsel to make the application

was getting the doubt cleared caused by the evidence of the Medical Officer

and the medical reports with regard to the identity of the culprit. According

to the medical report marked as P1 Swarnamali has stated to the doctor

4

I I l

1

I I I

I

I I I \ ! I

1 j

I 1 1

l I i

\ I

that she was "Sexually assaulted by Munisera Hamuduruwo". The Medical

officer in his evidence has stated that according to the short history given by

Swarnamali, it was Munisara Thero who did the sexual act. He further

explains that as he is a Tamil national, he may have written the name

Munisara as Munisera. He stressed that it could have in no way been

recorded as Munisera if the victim girl had said, Punyasara.

It is highly surprising that the learned trial judge who reserved the order in

the 1st instance had postponed it 07 times within a span of one year. Finally

what he says delivering the order is that it seems to be unnecessary to re-

call the Medical Officer as he has to re-iterate his position taken in his

evidence with regard to the name given in the case history at the time of

Medical Examination.

After the pronouncement of this order, the case has been re-fixed for the

defence address. This step has been postponed 5 times up to 10.01.2008

with giving reasons and without giving reasons for the postponement. By

10.01.2008 the trial judge who heard the case had been transferred and

therefore the succeeding judge had directed to take steps to get his

predecessor appointed to conclude the case. Even though the appointment

had been made by 11.02.2008 the trial judge had failed to conclude the trial

until 29.08.2008. By 29.08.2008 a new jurisdiction had been established

5

I I

I l I

I 1

creating a separate High Court zone for Monaragala and the incident of this

case had taken place within the territorial jurisdiction of the said zone. An

objection arose regarding the matter whether this case could be heard in

High Court of Badulla. The trial judge had overruled the said objection by the

order appearing on page 215 of the original record. Finally the judgment has

been reserved for 24.07.2009 subsequent to the filing of written submission

by the Defence Counsel. The judgment was delivered on 07.12.2009

following two postponements.

The learned counsel for the Accused Appellant submitted that a fatal

irregularity had taken place by the intolerable delay in pronouncing the

judgment. It is obvious that the cause of the delay of the pronouncement of

the judgment was being indifferent to the legal principle that a judgment of

a case is to be delivered without delay and within a reasonable time from

the conclusion of the trial.

The learned Additional Solicitor General appeared for the Respondent

submitted the law relating to the evolution of the legal state in connection

with sec. 203 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act. There is a series of

cases where the principle laid down in Sec. 203 has been discussed. It had

been the accepted rule that Judges should state their findings as to guilt or

innocence of the accused immediately at the conclusion of the trial.

1 This

6

f

I I ,

i I

1 J I l

1 ,

1

I

1 j

1 I

strict rule has been made lenient by judicial interpretations as well as

legislations in the past several decades, firstly by making the relevant legal

provision a mere directive not a mandatory requirement2 and secondly by

widely interpreting the restriction time clause as reasonable time. 3 Later it

has been decided that this procedural obligation that has been imposed

upon the court and its non compliance would not affect the individuals

rights unless such non compliance occasioned a failure of justice.4

This principle is based on the fact that one usually develops the tendency of

forgetting matters with passage of time, not only the facts of the case but

demeanor and deportment of the witnesses as well. A judge may refresh his

memory of the facts of a case by the perusal of the proceedings of the trial

in drawing conclusions. But there is an axiom in the sphere of law that

justice is not only to be done, but it should appear to be done. Trial judge

should not waste the valuable time of the court by entertaining obnoxious

applications of the parties. Judge should be the master of the court and

must control proceedings, so that proceedings should lead to fulfillment of

justice. The learned trial judge in this case has not only violated the principle

laid down in Sec. 203 of the Code of Criminal procedure Code Act, but also

flouted the said axiom.

7

! !i

rI!Il

Swarnamali in her evidence categorically says that her under skirt and

knickers were not lifted or removed at the time of the alleged sexual act.

She explains that something was pressed against her urinating organ over

the under skirt and knickers. It seems that the prosecuting counsel had

tactfully avoided questioning the Medical Officer whether it was possible to

insert a male organ into female organ when the female organ was covered

with knickers and under skirt. The Defence Counsel may have cautiously

refrained from interrogating the same. I believe that it was the prosecution

that was at a disadvantage by not getting the above matter clarified through

the Medical Officer. The doubt arising from the possibility of a male organ

being inserted into a female organ when the female is clad in knickers and

under skirt is intensifying by the statement made to the police by

Swarnamali in her 1st Complaint that the Accused pressed his urinating

organ between her legs.

It is evident that two complaints have been made to the police. The first was

in the evening of the day of the incident. Most of the things stated by

Swarnamali in court are absent in the first complaint. The second complaint

has been made by Swarnamali's mother on April 2

nd, after the medical I

examination. I

8

1 \ I

I I I {

I I

I

A police sergeant, who is said to have done the investigations, had given

evidence for the prosecution case. But certain important points have not

been divulged in his evidence. It is not clear when he had gone for

investigation, when Accused Appellant was arrested whether the second

complaint was made after the arrest, of the Accused Appellant, and whether

the Accused Appellant's room and the bed were examined.

The inevitable inference stemming from the concealment of certain

important points is that the points left unsaid are disadvantages to the party

that conceals them.

The learned trial judge appears to have acted with utmost belief in what the

victim girl has said in her evidence in the trial court. Throughout the

judgment he has emphasized several items of her evidence to highlight the

prosecution case. Those items are the very points which are absent in the

first complaint made just after the alleged incident. The trial judge has never

focused any attention on the evidence of the investigating officer, who had

told court that victim girl has not stated those items of evidence in her

complaint made to the police.

In fact there are several instances that learned trial judge had intervened to

help the victim girl when she was cross examine by the Defence Counsel.

When the Defence Counsel questioned her, "Do you know that the police

9

!

I

I I I

have recorded what you have stated", Her answer was "Yes", At that time

the judge had asked 'Do you know what the police officer has recorded? '

She had answered "No", Again the judge had asked, "Were you

questioned?", She had answered, Can't remember",

Once when the Defence Counsel asking the girl about the omission that

Accused Appellant thrust something pointed into her female organ, judge

had asked her, " Did you stated in the lower court that your female organ

was thrust? ", Then the girl had answered "Yes", Obviously the trial Judge

has shown by his verbal behavior that he was in favour of the prosecution

throughout the trial. We emphasize here that the Judge must observe the

golden precept of independence to appear to anyone that the Court is

impartial.

A crime is always an unpleasant and ugly thing, Usually civilized people don't

tolerate crimes, But to convict an accused for a crime allegation must be

established beyond reasonable doubt,

In my opinion a severe doubt is caused as to whether the penetration which

is the main ingredient of the charge of rape has taken place at the time of

the alleged incident.

The inordinate delay that had occurred in the pronouncement of the

judgment violating the legal principle laid down in the Sec, 203 of the Code

10

, • -I I 1

1I ,

of Criminal Procedure Act which undoubtedly results in the failure of justice I and the failure of the prosecution to establish the charge of rape in our

opinion should be taken in to account as being favorable to the Accused

Appellant. Accordingly we set aside the conviction and the sentence and

acquit the Accused Appellant.

Appeal Allowed.

t> -JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

A.W.A.SALAM. J (PICA)

I agree.

PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

1. Venacy V.Velam 1, NLR 124

2. Dharmasena V. State 79 (1) NLR 101

3. Viswalingam V. Liyanage (1983) 1 SLR 203

4. Anura Shantha V. Attorney General 1999 1 SLR 299

11