==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A 1155/96(F)

1. R. A. Tillekeratne Bandara Tilakasiri Stores' Diyasenpura.

2. K. W. Premaratne of

'Ratnasiri Stores', Wijayapura, Diyasenpura.

3. W. J. Abeyratne of 'Jayabima Stores', Diyasenpura.

D.C Polonnaruwa 14/96/DR

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J.

DEFENDANT -APPELLANTS

Vs.

People's Bank No. 75, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 2.

PLAINTIFF -RESPONDENT

Defendant-Appellants absent & unrepresented R. Dissanayake for Plaintiff-Respondent (People's Bank)

16.05.2011

02.06.2011

2

GOONERATNEJ.

This was an action filed in terms of the Debt Recovery (Special

Provisions) Act No.2 of 1990 as amended by Act No.9 of 1994 in the

District Court of Polonnaruwa. On the dates of hearing of this appeal the

Appellants were absent and unrepresented though duly noticed by this court.

Petition of Appeal filed of record seeks to set aside the order of

the learned District Judge dated 13.11.1996 by which decree nisi was made

absolute. In the body of the Petition of Appeal it is pleaded that the learned

District Judge erred since he did not give an opportunity to obtain Leave to

Appeal to appear and defend in terms of the above law. Appellants seem to

suggest in the Petition of Appeal that the mandatory provisions of Section 12

of the Act No.9 of 1994 had not been followed. The said section reads thus:

Where the defendant appears in court in response to the decree nisi and does not

contest the decree nisi but admits liability and prays to liquidate the debt in

installments, the court shall with the approval of both parties to the action, minute

the fact on the record and thereafter, make the decree absolute. Such settlement

shall operate as a stay of execution of proceeding unless the defendant acts in

breach of any of the terns of settlement in which event the institution shall be

entitled to execute the decrees ."

The learned Counsel for the Plaintiff-Respondent Bank in his

submission to court inter alia supported the order of the learned District

3

Judge dated 13.11.1996. The learned Judge of the Original Court has made

reference to Section 12 of the law and emphasis that the Defendants have

agreed to settle the amount due by way of instatements. Although pleaded as

above the Trial Judge also states that it is not a genuine attempt by the

Appellants since the Appellants also seek a dismissal of the action and for an

order of court to file answers. I do not wish to interfere with the findings of

the learned District Judge on his observation on this aspect. However the

Debt Recovery Act is a special statute enacted on the lines of the summary

procedure on liquid claims of the Civil Procedure Code, to expedite

litigation on debt recovery. As such one should not on one hand agree to

settle by way of instatements and also try to contest the case on the other

hand, which is not a genuine attempt as observed by the District Judge, but

only an attempt to delay the proceedings.

Documents made available does not suggest or disclose a prima

facie sustainable defence in terms of the statute. The respondents have

acknowledged that the sums mentioned in the plaint are due and payable. As

such court cannot act under Section 6(2) ( c) of the Act. The word 'debt' in

the statute is given a very wide meaning. Procedure laid down in the statute

need to be strictly followed. A defendant must in terms of the statute if he

wishes to contest the case first obtain leave to appear and show cause, by

, " 4

following the suggested procedure in the Act. In the instant case the

Defendant's attempt is not a genuine attempt as observed by the District

Judge. His attempt is only to mislead. As such decree nisi being made

absolute in the Original Court cannot be faulted. I cannot find a plausible

defence with a triable issue, which cannot be summarily disposed on which

investigation is required.

I am inclined to follow the Dicta in the case of Ramanayake vs.

Sampath Bank Ltd. and others 1993( 1) SLR at 153 ... However section

6(2)( c) of the Act expressly provides for the affidavit of the Defendant to

deal specifically with the Plaintiff's claim and his defence thereto and what

facts are being relied on to support his case thereof. The Defendant has to

deal with the Plaintiff's claim on it's merits; it is not competent for the

defendant to merely set out technical objections. It is also incumbent on the

Defendant to reveal his defence, if he has any.

In all the circumstances it is apparent that this is a frivolous

appeal. District Court Judgment is affirmed.

Appeal dismissed with costs.