==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA 117/2010 HC Negombo No: 60/2003

Maheepala Mudalige Chandan Rimson Paaris No: 71 B, E/Dummaladeniya, Wennappuwa. Loku Kata Godage Don Chaminda Jayanath No: 03, N/Dummaladeniya, Wennappuwa. Paththini Kuttige Srath Nonis No: 28, Galayaya Janapadaya, W/Nainamadama, Nainamadama. Warnakulasooriya Jude Nelson Fernando No: 75/01, Ichchankaduwa, Kandakuliya, Thalpitiya.

Petitioners Vs. Hon. Attorney General Attorney General’s Department Colombo 12.

Respondent

C.A.AppealNo. 117/2010 H.C. Negombo No. 60/2003.

Before

Counsel

Argued & Decided on

Rohini Marasinghe, J. Deepali Wijesundera, J.

Dr. Ranjith Fernando with Samanthi Rajapaksa

for the 2nd and 3rd Accused-appellant.

Indika Mallawaarchchi for the 4th Accused-Appellant

Haripriya Jayasundera SSC for the de Silva SC for the A.G.

17.01.2013

Rohini Marasinghe, J.

All four accused-appellants are present in court produced by

the prison authorities.

Heard submissions of the Counsel for the 2nd, 3rd and 4th

accused-appellants. Counsel inform court that only evidence

against the said appellants were identification evidence. Counsel for

the appellants make submissions that these appellants were shown

to the witnesses by the police on several times, prior to the

identification parade. The Counsel submit that the police by doing

so had acted illegally.

The State agrees that, only evidence against the 2nd , 3rd and

4th appellants was the identification evidence, which the State also

1

III

I

admit as flawed. Therefore, it is unsafe to convict these appellants

on this evidence. Therefore Court allows the appeal of the 2nd, 3rd

and 4th accused-appellants. The 2nd accused-appellant namely

Locukatagodage Don Chaminda Jayanath, 3rd accused-appellant

namely Paththini Kuttige Sarath Nonis and 4th accused-appellants

namly Warnakulasuriya Jood Nelson Fernando are acquitted and

discharged from the charges.

The appeal against the 1st accused-appellant is postponed

for further date as the Counsel is not present before Court.

The Commissioner of Prison is informed that the 2nd , 3rd

and 4th accused-appellants have been acquitted and discharged

from the charges.

Appeal against the 1st accused-appellant is fixed for argument

on 28/02/2013.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Depali Wijesundera, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

/mds

2