==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 359 I 97 F

D.C. Colombo No. 14740 I MR

Y. P. Sirisoma,

1/35, Veediya Bandara Mawatha, Ethul Kotte.

Plaintiff

Vs.

Samarakone Arachchige Gunaratne, Bribery Commissioner's Department, Colombo 7.

Defendant

AND NOW BETWEEN

Samarakone Arachchige Gunaratne, Bribery Commissioner's Department, Colombo 7.

Defendant Appellant

Vs

Y. P. Sirisoma,

1135, Veediya Bandara Mawatha, Ethul Kotte.

Plaintiff Respondent

BEFORE

COUNSELS

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

Vikum De Abrew SSC for the Defendant

Appellant

M.D.N.G. Dissanayake for the Plaintiff

Respondent

28.06.2012

30.05.2013

The Plaintiff Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the Respondent)

instituted the said action against the Defendant Appellant (hereinafter referred to as

the Appellant) in the District Court of Colombo seeking to recover a sum ofRs. 01

Million as damages for malicious prosecution.

The Appellant filed answer denying the averments contained in the

plaint and prayed for a dismissal of the Respondent's action. The Appellant further

averred that the Bribery Commissioner had decided to forward a charge sheet

under Section 70 (c) of the Bribery Act as a result of an investigation carried out

by the Bribery Commissioner's Department and there were sufficient materials and

prima facie evidence to forward a charge sheet.

The learned Additional District Judge has delivered a judgment in

favour of the Respondent. This appeal is from the said judgment.

3

At the outset I must place on record that where no malicious or

corrupt motive in prosecuting an action was alleged or proved, no action for

damages will lie, even though inconvenience and pecuniary loss have been caused.

In an action for a malicious prosecution the plaintiff must prove that the charge

must have been false, there must have been wanting of probable cause to justify the

accusation, there have been malice on the part of the informant, and the plaintiff

must have sustained damage either in his person or reputation or by pecuniary loss.

Lascelles ACJ in Corea Vs Peiris 9 NLR 276 stated that "the

conditions which are necessary to success in an action of malicious prosecution are

laid down as follows by Lord Justice Bowen in Abrath v. North-Eastern Railway

Co. (1883)11 Q.B.D. 440. In order to establish his cause of action it is incumbent

upon the plaintiff to prove - (1) that he was innocent, and that his innocence was

pronounced by the tribunal before which the accusation was made; (2) that there

was a want of reasonable and probable cause for the prosecution, or, as it may

otherwise be stated, that the circumstances of the case were such as to be in the

eyes of the Judge inconsistent with the existence of reasonable and probable cause;

(3) that the proceedings of which he complains were initiated in a malicious spirit,

that is, from an indirect and improper motive, and not in furtherance of justice.

In the case of Silva Vs Silva [2002] 2 S.L.R. 29 it was held that "In a

case of malicious prosecution the onus of proof is on the plaintiff, he must prove

on a preponderance of evidence or on a balance of probabilities that;

(i) there was a prosecution on a charge that was false,

(ii) such prosecution was instituted maliciously or with animus injuriandi and

not with a view to vindicate public justice,

(iii) there was want of reasonable or probable cause for such action,

4

(iv) the prosecution terminated in favour of the plaintiff as against the

complainant."

The burden to prove that the action was filed maliciously is on the

plaintiff. Malice is a feature of the mind and must be gathered from the

circumstances. In cases of doubt it cannot be presumed nor can it make itself

apparent or be proved otherwise than by the nature of the-act itself. One should not

presume the existence of a delict so long as it is possible to suppose the contrary.

(Page 59 De Injuriis Et Famosis Libeliis.VOET, BK. 47 title 10).

In a case of malicious prosecution the plaintiff must prove that the

defendant instituted or instigated the proceedings in a criminal court. Therefore in

the present case the burden is on the Respondent to prove that the Appellant has

instituted or instigated the proceedings in the Magistrate's Court. According to P 2

the Appellant was the 4th witness of the Magistrate's Court case. The Appellant in

his evidence has stated that he had only conducted the inquiry on the instruction of

the Bribery Commissioner and the matter of forwarding a charge sheet was a

function of the Bribery Commissioner and the Legal Department and he had not

involved in instituting or instigating the proceedings in the Magistrate's Court.

This evidence had not been contradicted by the evidence of the Respondent. Hence

it clearly seems from the said evidence that the Appellant had not instituted or

instigated the proceedings against the Respondent in the Magistrate's Court.

In an action for malicious prosecution in order to establish that the

Defendant set the criminal law in motion against the Plaintiff there must be

something more than the mere conducting of the investigation. There must be a

formulation of a charge or something in the way of solicitation, request or

incitement of proceedings on the part of the Defendant.

5

In the case of Ghouse Vs Samsudeen 45 N.L.R. 417 where, in an

action for malicious prosecution it is proved that the defendant merely stated

certain facts to the police in form of a complaint and that the police acted on their

own responsibility and took the initiative in charging the plaintiff, it was held that

the defendant had not instituted the prosecution and that the plaintiff had no cause

of action against him."

In the case of Moss Vs Wilson (1906) 8 NLR 368 Woodrenton J

observed that there is no doubt as to what the essential elements of the action for

malicious prosecution are. The plaintiff must prove that a charge was made to a

judicial officer, that the charge was false-its falsity being demonstrated, where

prosecution has followed, by the plaintiffs acquittal-that the charge was made

without reasonable cause, and that the defendant himself did not honestly believe it

to be true. The mere absence of reasonable or probable cause or even the presence

of positive recklessness in the conduct of the defendant is not sufficient to establish

dolus malus, unless these elements show conclusively that he must have acted in

bad faith. Moreover, as the burden of proof rests at all stages on the plaintiff, the

defendant is entitled to the benefit of any reasonable doubt which the balance of

the evidence may disclose. In support of these propositions, I may refer to the

cases of Meedin v. Mohideen (1897) 3 NLR 27 and Christiana v. Andiappapulle

(1898), 1 Balasingham, 58.

On the other hand the Respondent must prove that there was a want of

reasonable and probable cause for the prosecution, or, as it may otherwise be

stated, that the circumstances of the case were such as to be in the eyes of the

Judge inconsistent with the existence of reasonable and probable cause. Upon this

requirement I have noted the evidence of the Respondent at page 81 of the brief

and the document produced marked V 1. V 1 was a letter sent to the Bribery

6

Commissioner by the Respondent in which the Respondent had admitted that he

had erroneously stated in the Declaration of Assets that he had made an investment

of Rs 100,000/- at the Sampath Bank in 1991, but he had only one investment

amounting to Rs. 99,991.50 up to the date of declaration. This evidence

undoubtedly stands across the way of absence of probable and reasonable cause.

In the said circumstances I set aside the judgment of the learned

Additional District Judge dated 27.06.1997 and dismiss the action of the

Respondent. I allow the appeal of the Appellant with costs.

Appeal allowed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal