==== BLOCKS ==== 

~ 1 ) ~

1 1 I J 1 ! I I I I I

J

I

i i

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

C. A. No : 270/2013

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an appeal in terms

Of Section 331 ofthe Code of

Criminal Procedure Act No. 15 of

1979 as Amended.

The Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

Complainant-Appellant

H. C. Rathnapura No : 110/2013

v.

Adigama Seelawansha Thissa Thero.

Accused-Respondent

BEFORE H. N. J. Perera, J. &

K. K. Wickramasinghe, J

COUNSEL Anoopa de Silva SSC for the Appellant. Tenny Fernando for the Accused-respondent.

ARGUED ON 18th March 2015

DECIDED ON 30th April 2015

1

K. K. WICKRAMASINGHE, J.

The accused-respondent is present in court, produced by the prison authorities.

This is a State Appeal by the Attorney General to enhance the sentence imposed

on the accused-respondent.

The accused-respondent was indicted on three similar counts. That the accused

on a date between the period of 1st September 2008 - 30th September 2008 committed the

offence of Grave Sexual Abuse of a boy under 16 years of age by placing his male organ

between the thighs of the victim Isuru for sexual gratification which is an offence punishable

under sec. 365 B (2) (b) of the Penal Code as Amended by Acts Nos. 22 of 1995, 29 of 1998 and

16 of 2006.

The accused had pleaded guilty to all three counts and subsequently the Learned

High Court Judge had convicted the accused-respondent for all three counts, after considering

the submissions made by both parties. The Learned High Court Judge has imposed two years

rigorous imprisonment with a fine of Rs. 100 and a default sentence of one week simple

imprisonment on each count.

It was brought to the notice of court by the Senior State Counsel that, the

following matters as born out in the Proceedings of that date were brought to the notice of

court, so as to be considered when imposing sentence.

It was informed that with reference to all three counts;

In terms of sec. 365 B (2) (b) of the Penal Code as Amended by Acts No. 22 of 1995, 29 of 1998

and 16 of 2006 a term of Rigorous Imprisonment not less than 07 years and not exceeding 20

years have to be imposed on the convict. Further a mandatory fine and compensation to the

victim has to be ordered upon conviction.

a) The victim was a boy of 09 years at the time in which the offences came to be

committed.

b) The accused was 31 years of age.

c) The First Complaint was lodged by the father of the victim on the 24th of

December 2008.

2

f

f 1f l ttI !

1!!

d) The Accused was residing in the village temple (which bore the name:

"Abhinavarama") during the period ofthe incident.

e) The Accused had been summoning the victim and other children of the village to

the village temple where he was residing.

f) With the said summoning, the parents of the victim having obliged the said

request of the Accused had allowed the victim to go to the village temple.

g) It is during the said visits made by the victim to the village temple that the

Accused had (on several occasions) committed the offence of Grave Sexual

Abuse on the victim.

h) The Accused by virtue of being a monk had authority over the villagers of the

Kokkawita area.

Considering above facts it is evident that the accused was an authoritative figure

over the villagers. Taking into consideration the fact that the offence of Grave Sexual Abuse had

been committed by a person in authority and had committed on an immature youth of a tender

age warrants imposing a severe punishment on the accused. At the time of sentencing the

accused, he was serving a sentence of 48 years of imprisonment for having committed similar

offences. The previous convictions are a clear indication that the accused is a habitual offender.

There can be no matter that could be deemed to be fit enough to mitigate the grave and

serious nature of the instant case and the dangerous criminal potential of the accused.

The Learned Trial Judge has taken into consideration of the fact that the accused

serves the 48 years of imprisonment already imposed on him and the accused will not be alive

to serve the terms of imprisonment in respect of the instant matter on appeal.

It is the position of the Appellant that this is a wrong principle of law not

provided for in any statutory provision of law.

In King Vs Rankira 42 NLR 145 it was held: "The Court of Appeal will not interfere

with the judicial discretion of a Judge in passing sentence unless that discretion has been

exercised on a wrong principle".

3

In King Vs E. M. T. De Saram 42 NLR 528 it was held that: liThe Court of Appeal

will not interfere with the judicial discretion of a Judge in passing sentence unless that discretion

had been exercised on a wrong principle".

In AG Vs Mendis 95 (1) SLR 138 it was held: "in assessing punishment, the Judge

should consider the matter of sentence both from the point of view of the public and the

offender. The Judge should first consider the gravity of the offence as it appears from the nature

of the act itself and should have regard to the punishment provided in the Penal Code or other

statute under which the offender is charged. He should also regard the effect of punishment, as

a deterrent and consider in what extent it will be effective".

The Learned High Court Judge has disregarded the fact that public interest

demands that at least the minimum mandatory sentence ought to be imposed on the accused.

As in; AG Vs H. N. de Silva 1 (1956) 57 NLR 121 at page 124 it was held: "in assessing the

punishment that should be passed on an offender, a Judge should consider the matter of

sentence both from the point of view of the public and the offender. Judges are too often prone

to look at the question only from the angle of the offender. A Judge should in determining the

proper sentence, first consider the gravity of the offence as it appears from the nature of the act

itself and should have regard to the punishment provided in the Penal Code or other statute

under which the offender is charged. He should also have regard effect of the punishments as a

deterrent and consider to what extent it will be effective."

Considering above facts we set aside the sentence imposed by the Learned High

Court Judge of the High Court of Rathnapura by way of his order dated 11.12.2013 and

substitute same with a sentence of 7 years rigorous imprisonment on each count to run

concurrently and also to pay compensation of Rs. 50,000 payable to the victim, in default

sentence of 6 months rigorous imprisonment on each count. We affirm the fine and default

sentence on each count imposed by the Learned High Court Judge.

4

Subject to the above variations of the sentence the Appeal is dismissed.

The learned High Court Judge is directed to issue a fresh committal indicating the

sentence imposed by this court.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

H. N. J. PERERA, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

CASES REFFERED TO:

1) King Vs Rankifa 42 NLR 145

2) King Vs E. M. T. De Safam 42 NLR 518

3) AG Vs H. N. de Silva 1 (1956) 57 NLR 121

4) AG Vs Mendis 95 (1) SLR 138

5

I

! ,!ii

~fI

~!>fi

~r