==== BLOCKS ==== 

I 1 I ! I

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 606 /2000 F

D.C. Kandy No. 19704/ MR

Bank of Ceylon, Central Office, York Street, Colombo 1.

Plaintiff

Vs.

1. G.P.P. Wijegunawardena, Aladeniya, Werallagama. 2. M.C.M. Ramzan, No. 121, Walgampaya, Danture.

AND NOW BETWEEN

M.C.M. Ramzan, No. 121, Walgampaya, Danture.

Defendants

2 nd Defendant Appellant

Vs

Bank of Ceylon, Central Office, York Street, Colombo 1.

Plaintiff Respondent

\

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

2

G.P.P. Wijgegunawardena,

Aladeniya, Werallagama.

1 st Defendant Respondent

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

Defendant Appellant- Absent and unrepresented

M.N. Kanishka de Silva SC for the Plaintiff

Respondent

18.11.2013

10.02.2014

The Plaintiff Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the Respondent)

instituted the said action against the 1 st and 2nd Defendants in the District Court of

Kandy seeking to recover a sum ofRs. 142,462/- and the interest as prayed for in

prayer 'a' to the plaint. The case had been heard Ex Parte against the 1 st Defendant.

The 2nd Defendant Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant) has filed an

answer praying for a dismissal of the Respondent's action.

The case proceeded to trial on 14 issues. After trial the learned

Additional District Judge has delivered a judgment in favour of the Respondent.

Being aggrieved by the said judgment dated 28.08.2000 the Appellant has appealed

to this court.

1

3

The Respondent has closed his case leading the evidence of one

witness with the documents produced marked P 1 to P 4. The Appellant has not

raised any objection to the said documents. The Appellant has closed his case

without leading any evidence. The Appellant's contention was that the Respondent

has not proved his case and the admittance of documents P 2 and P 3 as evidence

was unlawful.

It seems that the Appellant, who had not raised any objection to the

said documents P 2 and P 3 at the trial, has made an attempt to challenge the said

documents. It is well settled law that a party who fails to object to a document at

the time of producing such document in evidence such party is not entitled to take

up any objection to such document in appeal.

In the case of Cinemas Limited Vs. Sounderarajan [1998] 2 SLR 16 it

was held that "In a civil case when a document is tendered the opposing party

should immediately object to the document. Where the opposing party fails to

object, the trial judge has to admit the document unless the document is forbidden

by law to be received and no objection can be taken in appeal - S. 154 CPC

(explanation). "

In the said circumstances I see no reason to interfere with the said

judgement of the learned Additional District Judge dated 28.08.2000. Therefore I

dismiss the appeal of the Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

1I [ f

j

t I : ,

\

\

II

~ [ l !l

,