==== BLOCKS ==== 

~ I I l

\ i

IN THE COURT OFAPPEAI£.OF THE DEMOCRATl~;:;

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC ()JF SRI LANKA.

CA (PHC) No.

200/2003

High Court Kegalle

(Rev):1784

M.C.Ruwanwell.a No.

24015

Tn the m:lttE!r for an applicaticn to Appeal to the Court: of Appeal in terms of Article 154 (P) (6) of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

Garnaralalage Somawathie, :1/215, Godawella Road, Kachchcri,

Ruwanwl~lla.

Vs.

1. W.M.R. \lVijesiri, Divisional Sectary,

Ruwa:lwella.

2. Gaminie Thilakerathne, Grana Niladari,

Ruwanwella.

3. Rathna Jayaweera, Parivasa Karyalaya,

Ruwanwella.

4. W.D. Karunarathne,

Assistant Commissioner,

Parivasa and Lamaraksha,

Palatb Sabawa, Rathnapura,

!j. Y.G. Panyarathne, No.13, Ruwanwella.

6. U.G. Jayakodi, Imbulana, Wc:baraka,

Ruwanwella.

1

7. Keeniwitage Kamal ]ayasooriyc.,

J anapada N eladhari,

Divisional Sectary Office,

Ruwal1wella.

B. Hon Attorney General,

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

Defendants.

AND

Gamaralalage Somawathie)

1/215, Godawella Road, Kachcheri,

Ruwanwella.

P]~lintiff - Petitioner

Vs.

1. W.M.R. V/ijesiri, Divisional Sectary,

Ruwanwella.

2. Gaminie Th:ilakerathne, Grama l'Jiladari,

Ruwanwella.

3. Rathna Jayaweera, Parivasa Karyalaya,

Ruwanwella.

4. W.D. Karunarathne,

Assistant Commissioner,

Parivasa and Lamaraksha,

Palath Sabawa, Rathnapura.

2

I

t ! I4 t1f ! r t iI

! I

, f I It III

, IIi I

~ Ir

I I i

~

~

~ 1

1

1 !

1 j I I

1

I

'I ,

1 !

5. Y.G. Panyarathne, No.13, Rmvanwella.

6. V.G. Jayakodi, Imbulana) Waharaka,

Ruwanwella.

7. Keeniwitage Kamal Jayasooriya,

Janapada Neladhari,

Divisional Sectary Office,

Ruwanwella.

B. Hon Attorney General,

Attorney Gene:ral's Department,

Colombo 12:.

Defenda.nts - Respondents

AND NOW VETWEEN

Gamaralalage Somawathie,

1/215) Godawella Road, Kachcheri,

Ruwanwella.

Plaintiff - Petitioner - AlUlellant

'v,,· ;:"

1. W.M.R. Vlijesiri, Divisional Sectary,

Ruwanwella.

2. Gaminie ThHakerathne, Grama Niladari,

Ruwanwella.

3

Before

3. Rathna Jayaweera, Parivasa Karyalaya,

Ruwanwella.

4. W.D. Karunarathne,

Assistant Commissioner,

Parivasa and Lamaraksha,

Palath Sabawa,; Rathnapura.

S. Y.G. Panyarathne, No.13, Ruwanwella.

6. D.G. Jayakodi, Imbulana, Waharaka,

Ruwanwella.

7. Keenhvitage Kamal Jayasooriya,

Janapada Neladh2.ri,

Divisional Sectary Office,

Ruwanwella.

B. Hon Attorney General,

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12:.

DeJenda,nts - Respondents..:

Re.;~)ndents

: ",'.M.M, Malanie IGunarathn e, J

: P.R.Walgallrla, J

Counsel : AlPpellant is absent and unrepresented.

: H, Jayanetti SC for the Respondent.

4

f ; ! ! I

t II! !, II I I

i I I I

t

~ I I !IIII

II

f !

f I

I , l 1 I Argued on : 07.107.2015

Decided on : L~.08.2015

CASE- i~O-CA-(PHC)- 200/2003- JUDGMENT·,l1.08.2003

P.R.Walgama, J

The Plaintiff· Appellant (herein cJt€T sometimes (aIled and

referred to as the Appellant) instituted action against the

Defendant- Respondents In terms (If Section 136(1) of the

Criminal Procedure Code, alleging that the Defendants forcibly

entered the Appellant's land and committed an offence

punishable under Section 433 of the Penal Code.

The a'Jove S{!ction 433 deals with the punishment for committing ythe offence of iSOffilnitting criminal trespass, and enumerates thus;

Section 433

"'\Nhoever commits criminal trespass shall be punished with

imprisonment of either description for a: term which may extend

to three months, or with fine which may extend to three

month:;, or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees or

with both."

The Section 4~27 of the Penal Code deals with the act of

Criminal Trespass thus;

"V\lhoever enters into or upon pro perty in the occupation of

another with intent to commit an offence or to intimidate,

insult, or annoy any person in occupation of such proper~v,

5

1II

J

!,.J r I

\

j i

fI

tI

t

1(rt' I

Or having lawfully entered into or upon such property

unlawfully remains there wjlth intent there to intimidate, insult, or

annoy any shch person, or with intent tc commit an offence, is

sa:id tc commit "Criminal Trespass."

On the day the case was fixed for trial in the Magistrate Court

the Learned State Counsel informed court that the Honorable

Attorney General has decided to take over the prosecution case

in terms of Section 191 of the Criminal Procedure Code.

SE~ctiOI1 191 (2)

"If the complaint is one filed under paragraph (a) of subsection

(1) of section 136, the Attorney General, Solicitor General, a State

Counselor pleader specially or generally authoriz€·d by the

Attorney- General shall except where such complaint has been

filed against an officer or employee of the state m respect or

a matter connected with or relating to the discharge of the

official duties of such officer or employee, not have the right

to appear for the complainant without his consent."

per journal entry dated 17.06.2003, the Learned State

Counsel has informed court that the Hon. Attorn'.~y General

acting under Section 191(2) has decided to take over the

prosecution, a.nd decided not to adduced evidence for the

prosecution, and in effect moved to acquit and discharge the

Accused -Respondents.

6

I!I

~

f I

II

f I I

II , I! 1

Pursuant to the submissions made by both counsel the Learned

Magistrate by his order dated 17.06.2003, acquitted and discharged

the Accused- Respondents from the sc.id charge.

Being aggrieved by the said oreler the Plaintiff- Appellant has

made an application by way of revi~;ion to hriVp. thp S3Hi ()rdf'r

set aside.

The Learned High Court Judge by his order dated 23,07.2003,

dismissed the revision application on the basis that the Hon.

Attorney General acting under Section 191(2) of tbe Criminal

Procedure Code, has the right to take over the prosecution

without the consent of the Plaintiff, when the alleged wrongful

act, has not been committed in the discharge of the official duty.

It is salient to note that the alleged charge is one punishable

under Section 433 of the Penal Code, for criminal trespass, and

not for an act done in discharging of an official duty. Therefore

the Learned High Court Judge was of the view that the Hon.

Attorney General is empowered in terms of Section 191(2) to

take over the prosecution, and proceed to trial.

Being aggrieved by the said order of the Learned High Court

Judge, the Petitioner -Appellant has lodged the instant appeal

and sought to set aside the said order,

In the said application to this Court the Appellant has only

moved to vacate only the order of the High Court Judge dated

I

23.06.2003, and not the order of the Learned MagiSTrate as

stated above.

In the instant matter, although the Appellant has obtained the

brief, she has never appeared in court and nor was she

represented. Therefore the Court is only possessed with the

argument for the Respondents.

It is contended by the Respondents that the alleged dispute

arose in respect of a state land which has been identified for

the purpose of constructing a Probation Office for the

Ruwanwella Magistrate's Court.

The Respondents had also brought to the notice of this Court

that the Appellant has filed a Fundamental Rights Application

under Article 11 of the Constitution in the Supreme Court

bearing No. SCFR/18/2001., and the same has been dism:~ssed by the

Supreme Court.

Further it was asserted by the Counsel for the Respondents that I

Appellant in the said application to the Supreme Court has not 1

denied the position taken up by the Respondents of the fact

that the disputed land is required for dle purpose of building

a Probation Office for the Magistrate Court of Mawanella. It is

also to be noted that the Supreme Court has refused the

application of the Petitioner- Appellant:. In fact the Supreme Court

has observed the fact that the Respondents had cut some trees

in the disJPuted land which belongs to the State, and the same

has been allocated for the construction of the Probation and

8

Child Care Regional office at Ruwanwella. Hence it is now

established that the Respondents had entered a State Land and

not the land belonging to the Petitioner- Appellant. Thus the

entry to the said disputed land cannot be a criminal trespass

an off'~nce punishable under Section 433 of the Penal Code.

In the above setting it is crystal clear that the Hespondents

cannot be charged for· committing criminal trespass) for two

obvious reasons. First1y the iand in dispute is a state iand,

Secondly there was no act of trespass on the plrt of the

Respondents.

Therefore a cursory glance at the charge leveled agamst the

Respondents does not reflect any merits and the Appellant has no

locus standi to maintain the same.

The stand out judicial example of the said Section 191 of the

Criminal Procedure Code is discus:)ed by Sansoni J in the case

of ATTORNEY· GENERAL .VS. SIVAPRAGASAM - in 60.NLR. 468, has

held thus;

"In a prosecution initiated under secV,on 148(1)(a) of the

Criminal Procedure Code in a case where a Magistrate's Court

has power to try surnmarUy, a Crown Counsel is entitled, under

Section 199 of the Criminal Procedure Code, to appear and

conduct the prosecution even against the complainant's will. In

sUlch a case if the Crown Counsel informs the Magistrate that!

in the interest of justice, he will not b€~ placing ar,y evidence

against the Accused, it is not open to the Magistrate,instead of

9

acquitting the accused, to permit the complainant tc 'lead

evidence for the prosecution."

The said interpretation was also recognized in the case of THE

ATTORNEY GENERAL .VS. C. SUNDARALINGAM- 75. NLR- 527 HELD

THUS;

liThe right granted to the Attorney General by Section 199 of the

Criminal Procedure Code to appear and conduct the prosecution

in any case triable summarily exten d even to a ca::ie initiated

by the fi1ing of a private plaint, unless there is sufficient to

show that the Attorney General IS acting mala fide and . " Improper purpose.

Hence it is ostensible in the instant matter the Respondents

had acted in their official capaci~y to cut certain trees as the

disputed land was a State land and the land was identified for

the purpose of constructing a Probation Office for the

Magistrate Court's Ruwanwella.

In the said backdrop I am of the view that the Learned

Magistrate has acted in terms of Section 191 of the Criminal

Procedure Code, by allowing the Attorney Generai to take over

the prosecution.

Further in the case of KODIPPILIGE SEETA .VS. A.E.

SHARVANANDA ET AL -Colombo Appellate Law Reports- (1988) ii

C.A.L.R- 222- has followed the above decisions in interpreting the

above Section 191 of the Criminal P;~ocedure Code.

10

t I

J I !

,

I

Thus :~n the above exposition of law and facts as stated above

{I.u-Vi am of the view thatn Learned Magistrate has arrived at the

correct determination, which was up held by the Learned High

Court Judge by his afore said order.

Accordingly the Appellant fails In this application, appeal is

dismissed hereby, subject to a cost of Rs. 10,000/.

Appeal is dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W"M.M.Malanie Gunarathne, J

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

11