==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A.113/2011 H.C. Kandy No.95/2005

A. Ranjith Dambulla.

Appellant Vs. The Hon. Attorney General Attorney General’s Department Colombo 12.

Respondent

I I

I

I I

C.A.113/2011

Before

Counsel

Argued and Decided on

H.C. Kandy No.9S/200S

Sisira de Abrew, J. Acting P (Cj A) and

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

Dr.Ranjith Fernando for the Accused-Appellant.

Dilan Rathnayake, SSC for the Respondent.

26.11.2013

Sisira J. de Abrew, J. Acting (P / CA)

Accused-Appellant present m Court produced by the Prison

Authorities.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted for committing

the offence of culpable homicide not amounting to murder to his own

wife namely, Herath Mudiyanselage Koragahagoda Gedara Sriyani

Herath Manike and was sentenced to a term of 14 years rigorous

imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs.25000j-carrying a default

sentence of 6 months imprisonment. Being aggrieved by the said

conviction and the sentence he has appealed to this Court. Learned

Counsel appearing for the accused-appellant makes submission only for

1

the purpose of getting the sentence reduced. The facts of this case may

be briefly summarized as follows:-

Sriyani Herath Menike who was the deceased woman in this case,

prior to the incident, had gone abroad for employment and returned to

the country. During her stay in the foreign country the accused-

appellant had developed a love affair with another woman called Sriyani.

After the deceased woman returned to the country she went and stayed

with her mother. Thereafter the accused-appellant apologizing to his

wife for his illicit love affair brought his wife back home. On the day of

the incident both had exchanged words over the said love affair. The

exchange of words especially had taken place with regard to the fact that

the accused-appellant had not returned home on the previous night. The

deceased woman thereafter tried to leave home on her bicycle but the

accused appellant prevented her from leaving home as he deflated tires

of the bicycle. It appears from the evidence led at the trial that there was

an exchange of words between the husband and wife. The son of the

accused-appellant had seen her father holding the neck of her mother

and pressing to the wall. Sriyani Herath Menike died 12 days after the

'l..-incident. Death had b~ taken place due to injuries of the spinal code.

Learned Counsel for the accused-appellant submits that the

sentence imposed by the learned trial Judge is excessive. Learned trial

2

tI

t

i l! t•

l,

flIi

fI! l •f

II rr

1! lI

I t I

. Judge has convicted the accused appellant for the offence of culpable

homicide not amounting to murder on the basis of sudden fight. It

appears from the facts of this case that the accused-appellant did not

want his wife to leave home. This is evident by fact that he deflated tires

of the bicycle. The accused did not use any weapon to cause injuries to

his wife.

When we consider these matters and the facts of this case, we feel

that sentence imposed by the trial Judge is little excessive. We therefore

set aside the term of 14 years rigorous imprisonment and impose a term

of 10 years rigorous imprisonment. We direct the Prison Authorities to

implement the sentence from the date of conviction namely 30.09.2011.

The fine imposed by the learned Trial judge remains unaltered. Subject

to the above variation of the sentence the appeal of the appellant is

dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P. W.D.C.Jayathilaka,J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

WC/-

3

!

t[ irI,[I

I