==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. Writ. 670 / 2009

In the matter of an application for

Mandate in the nature of Writ of Certiorari in terms of Article 140 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

Central Cultural Fund, No 21211, Bauddhaloka Mawatha, Colombo 07.

Vs

1. P. Danansuriya, Arbitrator,

Petitioner

Department of Labour, Labour Secretariat, Narahenpita, Colombo 05. 2. Hon. Gamini Lokuge, Ministry of Labour Relations and Manpower Ministry of Labour, Labour Secretariat, Colombo 05. 3. Commissioner General of Labour, Department of Labour, Labour Secretariat, Narahenpita, Colombo 05. 4. D. G. T. Dodamwala, Weligodawella, Bombuwala, Kalutara South.

Respondents

t I ! t I I ,

I \ I

~ I I ! r r ! i f f I I I j ! t i ! l i ! t

J

Before

Counsel

Argued on

Decided on

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

2

SRI SKANDARAJAH, J. (PCA) UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

Riad Ammen for the Petitioner

Deepthi Thilakaratne SSC for the 1 st 2nd and 3 rd Respondents

C. J. F emando for the 4th Respondent

21.06.2011

13.07.2011

The Petitioner is a body corporate incorporated under the Central Cultural

Fund Act No 57 of 1980. The 4th Respondent had been appointed to the post of

Excavating Officer Grade 111 of the Central Cultural Fund by letter dated

29.12.1992. Thereafter the 4th Respondent had been promoted to the post of

Excavating Officer Grade 11 and thereafter to Grade 1 by letters dated 02.04.1993

and 17.06.1994 respectively. By letter dated 08.02 2000 the 4th Respondent was

assigned the duties of "Officer in Charge" Ramba Vihara Project in the

Hambantota District. Thereafter the 4th Respondent by letter dated 10.10.2005

claimed acting salary under paragraph 12:5:4 of the Establishment Code on the

basis that he was acting in the post of "Officer in Charge" whilst holding the

substantive post of Excavating Officer Grade 1.

The Petitioner took up the position that the Central Cultural Fund did not

have a post called "Officer in Charge"; the term "Officer in Charge" was used in

3

order to describe an assignment of duties and hence the 4th Respondent was not

entitled to claim an acting salary. Thereafter the dispute between the Petitioner and

the 4th Respondent had been referred to the 1 st Respondent under section 4(1) of the

Industrial Dispute Act. The 1 st Respondent after an inquiry had awarded to the 4th

Respondent a sum of Rs. 184,208.25 equal to Y4 of the salary of the Excavating

Officer Grade I as an acting pay.

Being aggrieved by the said award the Petitioner is now seeking from this

court a mandate in the nature of a writ of certiorari to quash the said award dated

18.06.2009 made by the 1 st Respondent.

At the hearing of this application the learned counsel for the Petitioner

submitted that;

a. The petitioner used the term "Officer in Charge" in order to describe an

assignment of duties.

b. The Petitioner does not have a post called "Officer in Charge".

c. The 4th Respondent does not satisfy the requirements stipulated In

paragraph 12 of Chapter VII of the Establishment Code relating to

payment of acting salaries.

It appears from the said award that the 1 st Respondent has made it on the

basis that since the said "Officer in Charge" had been appointed by the Petitioner

although the name of the post is different the post of "Officer in Charge" has to be

considered as an approved post.

It is important to note that the 4th Respondent had admitted at the inquiry

that there was no post called "Officer in Charge" in the Central Cultural Fund. The

4

paragraph 12 : 2 of the Establishment Code stipulates that" If an officer holding a

substantive post in the public service is appointed to act in another post, he will be

entitled to acting pay." It is clear from the said paragraph that an officer would be

entitled to an acting pay, only if he is appointed to act in another post. That means

that the entitlement to claim an acting salary derives from the acting in another

post. In the above context if there is no post called "Officer in Charge" in the

Central Cultural Fund the 4th Respondent would not be entitled to an acting salary.

The contention of the 4th Respondent was that he was entitled to an acting

salary under paragraph 12 : 5 : 4 of the Establishment Code. The said paragraph of

the Establishment Code stipulates as follows;

"12 : 5 : 4 If while an officer acts in a post he also holds a substantive post

he should be paid as follows:-

If he is required to perform the full duties of both posts, one fourth of the

initial salary of the office in which he acts, together with the whole of his

emoluments in his substantive office. In the case of a post where a salary has not

been fixed the Y4 will be of a hypothetical salary to be determined, on application

made, by the secretary to Ministry of Public Administration in consultation with

the secretary to the treasury."

When I consider the said paragraph it appears to me that the contention of

the 4th Respondent is not within the ambit of the said paragraph of the

Establishment Code. It is crystal clear that the said paragraph is applicable only if

there is a post called "Officer in Charge". If there is no such post exists in the

Central Cultural Fund the 4th Respondent is not entitled to claim benefits under the

said paragraph unless he has obtained the approval of the secretary to the treasury.

5

There was no such approval obtained either by the 4th Respondent or by the

Petitioner.

When I consider the said circumstances I am of the view that the 1 st

Respondent has failed to adhere to the provisions contained in paragraph 12 : 5 : 4

of the Establishment Code. He has calculated the acting salary entirely on a wrong

footing. Thereby the 1 st Respondent has made errors of law by acting on the

assumption that the post of "Officer in Charge" had been created by implication

and also by granting an acting salary to the 4th Respondent equal to 'l4 salary of a

Excavation Officer Grade I in contrary to paragraph 12 : 5 : 4 of the Establishment

Code.

F or the forgoing reasons I make order to issue a mandate in the nature of a

Writ of Certiorari quashing the award of the 1 st Respondent dated 18.06.2009

marked P 9. The petitioner's application for a writ of Certiorari is allowed with

costs.

Application for writ allowed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

SRI SKANDARAJAH, J. (PCA)

I agree. ~. /./r--' President of the Court of Appeal