==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA (PHC) APN 39/2014 HC-Kandy-HC 410/2006

Lal Wickramasinghe No. 95, Heeressagala Road, Kandy.

1st Accused - Petitioner Vs. Hon. the Attorney General Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent 1. Kangaramulle Gedara Samarasinghe. 2. Millewage Gunawardhana.

2nd - 3rd Accused - Respondents

CA (PHC) APN 39/2014 HC-Kandy-HC 410/2006

Before A.W.A. Salam, J. &

W.M.M. Malinie Gunarathna, J.

Counsel Kalinga Indatissa, PC for the petitioner

Chathiya Gunasekera, DSG for Respondent

Decided on 31.03.2014

A.W.A. Salam, J.

Learned President's Counsel heard in support of the

application. Learned Deputy Solicitor General heard as

regards as the Respondent's case.

Learned Deputy Solicitor General has no objection to the

revision application being entertained and notice issued. He

further states that in case if the court entertains a revision

application, he wishes to dispense with the service of notice

as he has already been served with notice of this application

by the petitioner by post. Accordingly, we decide to

entertain the application and dispense with the notice to be

issued on the Respondents.

At this stage, the Deputy Solicitor General states that he

does not wish to file objections nor does he contemplate

raising any legal objection. As such the matter of the

1

j • 1 1 , 1 1

~

revision application filed by the petitioner is settled

between the parties as follows;

.~ I 1 1 The learned Deputy Solicitor General has no obj ection to the

J 1 1 Registrar of the respective High Court being directed to give , l

~

~ the petitioner free of charge copies of all the documents , 1 " 1 referred to in the list attached to the indictment.

~ J 1 j Accordingly, we direct the Registrar of the High Court of , i , I I

Kandy to issue the petitioner with Photostat copies of all the

documents referred to in the indictment as being documents

I I 1 l I

relied upon by the prosecution to prove its case, free of

charge, one month before the trial.

1 1 i I In the light of the settlement and the order that is ! f pronounced by court on this application, the impugned order

1 ! j dated 11.02.2014 is set aside and varied.

J I I ~ 1 JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL ! I W.M.M. Malinie Gunarathna, J.

l 1 1 1 I agree. l 1 JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

J

" 1 j 1 LA/-

! J ! ! j 1 1

2