==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A.No.192/98 (F) D.C.Kuliyapitiya No.9655/L

Horathal Pedi Durayalage Podi Manike Godagamwela, Nakkawaththa.

DEFENDANT –APPELLANT- PETITIONER Vs. 1. R.M. Ruwina Thamarangani Rajapakse 88/6,Walpola, Mulleriyawa New Town. 2. R.M. Pubudu Anandika Rajapakse 5714/A,Sapumal Mawatha,Wilgoda Road,Kurunegala. 3. R.M.Yamuna Priyadharshani Rajapakse, 15-1-1, Railway Quarters, Base line Mawatha, Colombo 9. 4. R.M. Gihan Chandima Rajapaksha 333 B, Mahawaththa road, Himbutana, Mulleriyawa New Town.

PLAINTIFF-RESPONDENTS-RESPONDENTS

I

C.A.No.192/98(F)

Before

Counsel

C. Wickremasinghe

Argued and

Decided on

K. T. Chitrasiri,J.

1

D.C.Kuliyapitiya No.9655/L

K.T.Chitrasiri, J.

Frank Prethi Perera with W.A.Ranaweera

for the Defendant- Appellant.

D.M.G.Dissanayake with

for the Su bsti tu ted-Plain tiff-Respondents

28.06.2013.

Counsel for the Appellant made submissions in support of

his appeal.

At this stage, both Counsel submit that the land in dispute

had not been shown in reference to a plan. Basically, the

contention of the appellant is on the question of identity of the

corpus. Both counsel concede that it is not appropriate to come

to a conclusion as to the title of the land in dispute without it been

2

identified in reference to a plan. In these circumstances both

counsel agree to have a survey of the land in dispute and

thereafter to proceed with the case.

At this stage learned counsel for the plaintiff-respondent

agrees to move for a commission to identify the land if the case is

remitted back for re-trial. He also submits that the plaintiff-

respondent may have problems when it comes to the stage of

execution of writ even if this appeal is dismissed. In view of the

above, both counsel agree to set aside the impugned judgment

delivered in this case.

In the light of the above submissions, it is clear that the

learned District Judge has merely relied on a deed executed in the

years 1943 in order to identify the land. The evidence of the first

defendant also shows that the defendants have challenged the

boundaries and the extent given in the said deed. For the

aforesaid reasons, the judgment dated 13 I 01 I 1998 is set aside.

Learned District Judge of Kuliyapitiya is directed to allow

the plaintiff to obtain a commission in order to identify the land

• 3

that he claims. If an application is made even by the defendant-

appellant, the learned District Judge is directed to allow such an

application too. Upon returning the respective commissions

learned District Judge is directed to proceed with the case in

accordance with the law.

Subject to the above variations this appeal is allowed without

costs.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

WC/-