==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA 3-4/2004

1. Herath Mudiyanselage Sisira Kumara alias Rala 2. Dissanayake Herath Mudiyanselage Upalie Herath Dissanayake

Accused-Appellants

Vs The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Complainant Respondent

HC Kurunegala 63/99

Before

Counsel

Argued on Decided on

Sisira J de Abrew J & PWDC Jayathilake J

Anil Silva President's Counsel for the accused appellant Thusith Mudalige SSC for the Respondent.

27.3.2013 16.5.2013

Sisira J de Abrew J.

The above named two accused appellants were convicted of the murder of a

man named Rajapakshe Mudiyanselage Rambanda alias Mudiyanse and were

sentenced to death. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence they

have appealed to this court. Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as

follows:

Herath Mudiyanselage Dissanayake alias Dasa, Mudiyanse (the deceased

person in this case), Muthubanda and Rathnapala cultivated a chena and

2

Mudiyanse was in the habit of looking after it in the night. They cultivated

vegetable in the chena. On 15.8.1997 two appellants had asked Mudiyanse's coffin

from him. This was told to Dasa by Mudiyanse in the afternoon of 15.8.1997. In

the evening of 15.8.1997 the 1st appellant came and addressed Dasa in the

following language: "Today I will give work to Lokka. Don't come to see ifLokka

shouts." This incident took place little before 8.00p.m. According to Dasa,

Mudiyanse was referred to as Lokka. At this time the 1st appellant had a club in his

hand. Little later around 8.00 p.m. he (Dasa) heard the sound of Mudiyanse's

bicycle and then he learnt that Mudiyans-e had come to the chena which was very

close to his house. Thereafter he heard Mudiyanse shouting: 'Dasa putha (son), I

am being killed.' This was a kind of appeal to Dasa by Mudiyanse. On hearing the

said cries, Dasa came out of his house. He then saw the 1st and the 2nd appellants

attacking Mudiyanse with clubs. Then he saw Mudiyanse and the 1st and the 2nd

appellants running away from this place. He thereafter climbed a Kohomba tree

and then saw the 1st and 2nd appellants again attacking Mudiyanse with clubs. The

distance between the 1st place of attack and the 2nd place was about eight fathoms.

The 1st appellant while attacking Mudiyanse, addressed him (Mudiyanse) in the

following language: 'You have given information regarding my uncle's arrack. I

will kill you. I am Kumbuke Rala.' Thereafter the 1st and the 2nd appellants carried

Mudiyanse with the aid of a pole. At this time Herath Banda and another person

were with the 1st and the 2nd appellants. Dasa describing this incident says that they

carried Mudiyanse as if a dead pig being carried in the village. He saw this incident

with the aid of moon light. Thereafter he came home but could not sleep. He told

his wife what happened to Mudiyanse but did not divulge the names of the

assailants due to fear. Dasa says he did not go out as the 1st appellant had

threatened to kill him if he came out of the house. Following morning when

Muthubanda came to meet him, both of them went to the police station and

3

Muthubanda lodged a complaint. Dasa divulged the incident to the police only

when he was coming in the police jeep to the place of incident.

According to medical evidence Mudiyanse, the deceased person, had

sustained cut injuries, stab injuries and contusions. His ribs were also broken.

Altogether there were nineteen injuries. According to the doctor as a result of

injury No.17 brain of the deceased person had been damaged and he had died due

to the said injury.

IP Jaysundara, the investigating officer, discovered the dead body of

Mudiyanse in consequence of a statement made by the 1st appellant. He found a

blood stained knife near the dead body.

Both appellants in their dock statements denied the incident. Learned

President's Counsel (PC) for the appellants contended that the case for the

prosecution depended on the question whether Dasa climbed the Kohomba tree or

not. He contended that according to Dasa' s evidence he had seen the attack on

Mudiyanse only after he climbed the Kohomba tree and that if he did not climb the

tree he could not have seen the attack on Mudiyanse. Learned defence counsel at

the trial cross-examined Dasa on the basis that he failed, in his statement made to

the police, to mention the fact that he climbed the Kohomba tree. Although learned

defence counsel did not mark this omission, the learned trial judge after examining

his statement made to the police had accepted it as an omission. I now advert to the

contention of learned PC. Learned Senior State Counsel (SSC) did not support the

conviction on the basis that Dasa was not a credible witness. He also submitted that

ifDasa did not climb the tree he could not have seen the attack o.n Mudiyanse. Did

Dasa see the attack on Mudiyanse before he climbed the tree? At the hearing when

this Court presented this question to both counsel, they, from the evidence, could

not find an answer to this question. Dasa, at page 1 02 of the brief, (during the re-

examination) clearly states that he saw the attack on Mudiyanse before he climbed

4

the tree. When the evidence of Dasa fully examined, he, even before the re-

examination, stated that he saw the 1st and the 2nd appellants attacking the deceased

and that he saw it when he came out of the house on hearing the shouts of

Mudiyanse. Dasa at one stage says that he saw Mudiyanse being attacked when he

was near the Kohomba tree and saw the 2nd attack after he climbed the tree. The

investigating officer says that he saw two large patches of blood and that one patch

of blood (the place of one patch of blood) could be clearly seen from the ground

level of the Kohomba tree. This demonstrates that the evidence of Dasa is

consistent with police observation. When I consider the above matters, contentions

of both President's Counsel and the Senior State Counsel cannot be accepted.

Dasa, in his statement made to the police, had not mentioned that he climbed the

Kohomba tree. Learned defence counsel at the trial cross examined him on this

basis. Learned trial judge accepted it as an omission. Can the evidence of Dasa be

rejected on this basis? Dasa says that after he saw the attack on Mudiyanse, he

could not sleep. The 1st appellant had threatened to kill him. He says after the

attack, Mudiyanse was taken away by the appellants with the aid of a pole as if a

dead pig was being taken. Thus one can understand the trauma that he underwent.

When I consider all these matters, failure to mention, in his statement made to the

police statement, that he climbed the Kohomba tree can be understood. In my view

his evidence cannot and should not be rejected on the basis of this omission. Dasa

made a prompt statement. Thus his evidence satisfies the test of promptness. There

are no vital contradictions and omissions marked between his evidence and his

statement made to the police. Thus his evidence satisfies the test of consistency. I

have earlier pointed out that his evidence was consistent with police observation.

He worked with Mudiyanse in the chena. When he heard the cries of Mudiyanse he

came out to see what it was despite the death threats by the 1st appellant. After he

saw the first attack from the ground he climbed the Kohomba tree. One must not

5

forget that thereafter all three ran away from the place of first attack. The distance

between the first place of attack and the 2nd place of attack, according to him, was

eight fathoms. It appears from his evidence that he climbed the Kohomba tree as he

could not get a better view of the second place of attack from the ground level. It is

not reasonable for anybody to expect him to approach the second place of attack

from the ground as he had been threatened by the 1st appellant soon prior to the

attack. When I consider all these matters, I hold the view that his evidence satisfies

the test of probability. I have examined the evidence led at the trial and I am

satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that Dasa had seen the attack on Mudiyanse

from the ground and from the tree and that his evidence could be accepted beyond

reasonable doubt.

Prosecution has produced following items of evidence.

1. On the day of the incident the 1st and the 2nd appellants requested Mudiyanse

to give his coffin to them.

2. Little before 8.00 p.m. on the day of the incident the 1st appellant came and

addressed Dasa in the following language: "Today I will give work to

Lokka. Do not come to see if Lokka shouts." Mudiyanse was known as

Lokka.

3. Little after 8.00 p.m. on the day of the incident Dasa heard Mudiyanse

shouting in the following language: "Dasa putha (son) I am being killed."

This was a kind of appeal to Dasa by Mudiyanse.

4. When Dasa came out he saw the 1st and the 2nd appellants attacking the

deceased with clubs.

5. Thereafter the 1 s\ 2nd appellants and Mudiyanse were seen running away

from the first place of attack.

6. When Dasa climbed the Kohomba tree he saw both appellants attacking

Mudiyanse.

6

7. After the attack the 1st and the 2nd appellants were seen carrying Mudiyanse

with the aid of a pole. According to Dasa Mudiyanse was being carried as if

a dead pig being carried in the village.

8. The investigating officer found large patches of blood at the scene.

9. The 1st appellant whilst attacking Mudiyanse addressed him in the following

language: You have given information regarding my uncle's arrack. I will

kill you. I am Kumbuke Rala.

10. The dead body of Mudiyanse was recovered in consequence of a statement

made by the 1st appellant.

Learned trial judge considered the statement made by Dasa to the Police in

the course of the investigation and decided that his evidence was consistent with

the said statement except for the fact that he had failed to mention the climbing of

the Kohomba tree. Thus the learned trial judge used a document which had not

been produced as evidence at the trial. This was a misdirection committed by the

learned trial judge. I must mention here that the learned trial judge was not entitled

to use a document which was not produced at the trial. Learned PC harping on this

misdirection contended that appellants had not had a fair trial. I have earlier held

that the evidence of Dasa could be accepted beyond reasonable doubt. When I

consider the evidence led at the trial, I hold the view that the prosecution had

proved the case against both appellants beyond reasonable doubt. I therefore hold

that the above misdirection committed by the trial judge is not sufficient to vitiate

the conviction. In my view the learned trial judge was right when he decided to

accept the evidence of Dasa. At this stage it is relevant to consider the proviso to

section 334 of the Criminal Procedure Code which reads as follows: "Provided that

the court may, notwithstanding that it is of opinion that the point raised in appeal

might be decided in favour of the appellant, dismiss the appeal if it considers that

no substantial miscarriage ofjustice has actually occurred". I apply the proviso and

7

hold that the above misdirection has not occasioned a miscarriage ofjustice.

For the above reasons, I affirm the convictions and death sentence and

dismiss this appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

PWDC J ayathilake

I agree.

Judge of the court of Appeal

Judge of the Court of Appeal