==== BLOCKS ==== 

•

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In application for leave to Appeal made

under See. 754 (2) of the Civil Procedure

Code.

D.C Matara Case No. 18282/p

Court of Appeal Leave to Appeal

Application No. CALA 314/06

1

Daniel Samarawickrema

"Smara", Thudawa,

Marata.

PLAINTIFF

Vs

1. Samuel Wilbert Samarawickrema

Thudawa, Matara.

2. Maduwila Gamacharige

Senehelatha Malinie De Silva

Thotagahawatte, Thudawa

Matara.

3. -do -Disni Indika Niranjali

Samarawickrema

4. -do-Kalum Nalaka

Samarawickrema

5. -do Nilum Wathsala

Samarawickrema

6. -do Dharshi Nishanka

Samarawickrema

7. Duncun Smararawickrema

I I !

2

Thotakumbura, Matara.

8. Theja Gajanayakage Sujith

Thatakumbura, Matara.

11. Edward Samarawickrema

Thudawa, Matara.

lla.Gunawathie Palliyaguru

Samarawickrema

Thudawa, Matara.

12. Jayamanne Samarawickrema

Thudawa, Matara.

DEFENDANTS

AND NOW BETWEEN

11a Gunawathie Palliyaguru

Samarawickrema

Thudawa, Matara. iia SUBSTITUTED DEFENDANT

PETITIONER

Vs

Daniel Samarawickrema

"Samara"

Thudawa, Matara.

PLAINTIFF RESPONDENT

1. Samuel Wilbert Samarawickrema

Thudawa, Matara.

2. Maduwila Gamacharige

Senehelatha Malinie De Silva

Thotagahawatte, Thudawa

Matara.

I

I

ff

r

~

~tfl

II

f

II

f

~

J f I I I I I ! I ! !

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

3

3. -do -Disni Indika Niranjali

Samarawickrema

4. do-Kalum Nalaka

Samarawickrema

5. -do Nilum Wathsala

Samarawickrema

6. -do Dharshi Nishanka

Samarawickrema

7. Duncun Smararawickrema

Thotakumbura, Matara.

8. Theja Gajanayakage Sujith

Thatakumbura, Matara.

1st-8th and 12th DEFENDANT

RESPONDENTS

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

M.M.A. Gaffoor J.

: Ranjan Suwandaratne for the

Substituted Defendant Petitioner

Razik Zarook PC with Rohana

Deshapriya for the Plaintiff

Respondent and 1 st to ih

Defendant Respondents.

: 13th February, 2015

: 10th July, 2015

ri !!i II II

Oeepali Wijesundera J.

The plaintiff respondent has filed a partition case in the District

Court of Matara to partition a land called "Kotakumbura". When the

preliminary survey was done the eleventh defendant petitioner and the

twelfth defendant respondent have claimed shares and they were added

as parties to the action. The trial had been concluded and interlocutory

decree had been entered allocating shares to parties including the

eleventh and twelfth defendants. Thereafter the final scheme of partition

was also prepared and submitted to court for consideration. Thereafter

the eleventh defendant has died and 11 a defendant had been

substituted. At the inquiry on the final partition scheme 11 a substituted

defendant petitioner has objected to the final scheme of partition on the

grounds that a major part of the carpus had been acquired by the state.

The plaintiff and first and second defendant have objected to this

application on the basis that all parties have admitted the carpus of the

partition case and that court has no jurisdiction to exclude a part of the

carpus at the final partition stage and also stated that there was no

evidence to prove acquisition by the state.

The 11 a defendant petitioner stated that as per Gazette

notification dated 1 0103/1981 marked as X the said lots are already

4

, , , 1 I I I I I I

j I I I

acquired by the state therefore the division of the final partition should

be restricted to the lots which are not acquired.

Upon consideration of the application of the 11 a defendant the

learned District Judge has overruled the objection of the 11 a defendant.

The learned District Judge has stated in his order that all parties

admitted Lot 1 of plan marked X as the carpus of the case and that the

11 a defendant objected to the final partition stating that, a part of the

carpus has been acquired by the state and moved that interlocutory

Decree be amended which can not be done since it is not a

chronological or typographical error. He has also stated that the

application was not made before the interlocutory Decree was entered

and that the eleventh defendant had participated in the trial and was

given shares from the corpus, therefore he has no right to object to the

final partition scheme. The District Judge has overruled the eleventh

defendant's objection and entered the final decree.

Being dissatisfied with the said order the 11 a defendant has filed

the instant application seeking leave to appeal stating that the partition

decree is null and void since it has been entered in respect of a state

land and that irreparable loss will be caused if of the acquired lots are

including in the final partition.

5

iIIIII

I

!II

IIIfIIIl i

~

~ iI Ilf r

I

t

I ,

I I

The learned counsel for the 11 a respondent petitioner stated that

it was brought to the notice of the Trial Judge about the acquisition of a ! portion of the property by the state by virtue of Gazette notification

marked M and under those circumstances he should have considered

the grave injustice caused to the party in the event of confirming the

final decree. He further stated that the District Judge should have left

the acquired area from the final scheme and in the circumstances the

order of the District Judge is perse erroneous. The learned counsel for

the 11 a defendant petitioner cited the judgments in Ranesinhe Vs

Henry 1 NLR 303, Athukorala Vs Swaminathan 41 NLR 165, Silva Vs

Silva 44 NLR 494, Perera Vs Agidahamy 48 NLR 87, Sinnathangam

Vs Meera Mohaideen 60 NLR 397 and submitted that this court had the

power to set aside a decree to ensure that the decision given in an

appeal is not rendered nugatory.

The above mentioned judgments deal with revision applications

made to the appellate court and not in the circumstances where the

instant application is made.

The learned counsel for the respondents argued that all the

parties to the partition action admitted the corpus and that the eleventh

defendant participated at the trial until the final decree stage and only

6

I

~iI

lIt

~

f[

J

then he objected to the partition scheme stating that a part of the carpus

has to be excluded as it has been acquired by the state.

The learned counsel stated that the Interlocutory Decree can only

be amended if there are typographical errors or mistakes and that this

application was not made before the interlocutory decree was entered.

The counsel submitted that the District Judge has no jurisdiction to

entertain the objection raised by the petitioner to the final scheme of

partition at that stage.

The counsel for the respondent stated that the Gazette

notification was published on 10103/1986 and the partition case was

filed in 1996 ten years after the said Gazette notice, which only indicates

the intention of acquisition which was neither proceeded nor concluded.

The respondent's counsel further submitted that under Sec. 26 (1)

of the Partition Act part of the carpus can be excluded only at the

Interlocutory decree stage. And under Sec. 48 of the said Act the

Interlocutory decree can be amended in limited circumstances and

therefore the petitioner's application does not come within the powers

7

1 j I

vested in court under Sec. 48 of the Partition Act, at the final partition

stage.

The learned counsel for the respondent cited the judgments in

Hamid et al Vs Special Officer and C.N. Hevavitharana Vs Themis

Silva and others 63 NLR 68 and stated that a decree in a partition case

to which the Crown is not a party does not bind the Crown. These two

judgments are not relevant to the instant application.

Sec. 26 of the Partition Act states thus;

(1). At the conclusion of the trial of a partition action, or

on such later date as the court may fix, the court

shall pronounce judgment in open court, and the

judgment shall be dated and signed by the judge at

the time of pronouncing it. As soon as may be after

the judgment is pronounced, the court shall enter an

interlocutory decree in accordance with the findings

in the judgment, and such decree shall be signed by

the judge.

(2). The interlocutory decree may include one or more of

the following orders, so however that the orders are

not inconsistent with one another:-

(a). order for a partition of the land;

8 IfII

(b). order for a sale of the land in whole or in

lots;

(c). order for a sale of a share or portion of

the land and a partition of the

remainder;

(d). order that any portion of the land

representing the share of any particular

party only shall be demarcated and

separated from the remainder of the

land;

(e). order that any specified portion of the

land shall continue to belong in common

to specified parties or to a group of

parties;

(fl. order that any specified portion of the

land sought to be partitioned or

surveyed be excluded from the scope of

the action.

In Sec. 26 (2) (f) it is stated that if a portion of the land is to be

excluded it has to be done at the interlocutory decree stage. The 11 a

respondent petitioner has been a party to the partition action and he has

9

J!t

l

1

not said anything about exclusion at the interlocutory stage and only at

the final partition he has objected to the land being so partitioned.

Sec. 48 (3) of the said Act states;

(3). The interlocutory decree and the final decree 0/

partition entered in a partition action shall have the

final and conclusive effect declared by subsection (1)

of this section notwithstanding the provisions 0/

section 44 0/ the Evidence Ordinance, and

accordingly such provisions shall not apply to such

decrees.

(a). whenever a party to a partition action

(i). has not been served with

summons, or

(ii). Being a minor or a person 0/

unsound mind, has not been duly

represented by a guardian ad

litem, or

(iii). Being a party who has duly filed

his statement 0/ claim and

registered his address, fails to

appear at the trial,

10

1 ! i I I • i Therefore under both Sec. 26 and 48 the petitioner can not object

to the final partition decree. He has admitted the corpus at the

commencement of the trial in the District Court.

The said Gazette notice had been published long before the

partition action was filed and the parties were aware of the said notice

when they admitted the corpus at the commencement of the trial.

For the afore stated reasons I see no valid reason to allow the

application of the 11 a respondent petitioner. Petitioner's application is

dismissed with costs fixed at Rs. 10,0001=

( cC ~J~

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

M.M.A. Gaffoor J.

I agree

11

t

f,trf

tl