==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for mandates

in the nature of a writ of certiorari and writ

of Mandamus under article 140 of the

Constitution of the Democratic Socialist

Republic of Sri Lanka.

*******

C.A. (Writ) Application No.736/2010

Vs

1

Hiyare Gamage Jeewaka Dilruk

Heenpanwila

Hiyare, Galle.

PETITIONER

1. University of Colombo

2. Prof.(Mrs.) Kshanika Hirimburegama

2A. Prof.(Mr.) Kumara Hirimburegama

The Vice Chancellor

3. Dr. Tuder Weerasinghe

4. Prof. Indralal de Silva

S. Prof. S. Sandarasegaram

6. Prof. N. Selvakumaran

7. Prof. Harshalal Senevirathne

8. Dr. P.S.M. Gunaratne

9. Prof. T.R. Ariyarathne

10. Prof. Sunil Chandrasiri

11. Prof. Nayani Malagoda

I

2

1

J

12. Prof. M.H.R. Sheriff

13. Vidyanidhi N.R. de Silva

14. Mr. Rajan Asirwadam

15. Mr. K Kang-Iswaran

16. Mr. Thilak Karunarathne

17. Mr. Chellaih Thangarajah

18. Mr. C. Maliyadda

19. Mr. Mahinda Rajapaksha

20. Mr. H.M.N. Warakaulle

21. Mr. P.W. Senarathne

22. Mr. M. Wickramasinghe

23. Mr. T.LR. Silva

The Acting Registrar

RESPONDENTS

24. Dr. Cuda Wijerathne

25. Mrs. Leisha De Silva

26. Dr. Harsha Kabral

27. Mr. Ashok Pathirage

28. Mr. A.P. Gunarathna

29. Dr. Ranjini Gamage

30. Dr. H.D. Karunarathna

31. Prof. Rohan Jayasekera

32. Prof. Premakumara de Silva

33. Prof. K.R.R. Mahanama

34. Mr. Amitha K.U. Gamage

35. Mr. Samantha Rajapaksa

ADDED RESPONDENTS

All are of

No. 94, Cumaratunga Munidasa Mw

Colombo 03.

t

J I I BEFORE : Oeepali Wijesundera J.

COUNSEL : K.G. Jinasena for the Petitioner

Chaya Sri Nammuni S.C. for the

Respondents.

ARGUED ON : 10th November, 2014

DECIDED ON : 28th September, 2015

Deepali Wijesundera J.

The petitioner has filed this application praying inter alia for writs

of certiorari to quash P1 and P2 and for a writ of Mandamus to compel

the respondent's to reinstate the petitioner and to pay his salary.

The petitioner was employed as a labourer by the first

respondent. On 24/11/2005 a complaint was made against the petitioner

along with two other persons for taking a vehicle belonging to the first

respondent out of the University premises without permission. A

preliminary inquiry was held on 30/11/2005 and the petitioner and the

other two were placed on interdiction. The interdiction letter is marked

as P1. Subsequently he was served with a charge sheet which is

3

, •

marked as P2. These are the two documents the petitioner is seeking to

quash. The petitioner's reply to the charge sheet is marked as P3 and

the inquiry report as P4. The petitioner states that after interdiction no

formal Disciplinary Inquiry was held and after the petitioner made

several inquiries the officers of the first respondent failed to take steps

to hold the Disciplinary Inquiry. The petitioner stated that since the

respondent's failed to hold a formal Disciplinary Inquiry for ten years the

petitioner had to make the instant application seeking writs of Certiorari

and Mandamus.

The argument of the petitioner was that since the respondents

failed to take action to hold a formal Disciplinary Inquiry after issuing P1

and P2 the petitioner should not be penalized and should be reinstated

with back wages.

On perusal of Documents marked by the petitioner and the

documents filed with the objections of the respondents it can be seen

that after serving P1 and P2 on the petitioner this issue had been taken

up in the University council meetings on several occasions. R1 to R4

documents dating from February 2006 to January 2010 show that the

respondents have taken steps to hold the Disciplinary Inquiry. The

respondents have written to the Attorney General for advice and after

4

tIf

t!

t I i

1 I i I I j 1 \

• • •

receiving the advice of the Attorney General have allowed the driver of

the said vehicle to retire on reaching 55 years age. R4 states that the

other labourer interdicted with the petitioner had appealed to the Vice

Chancellor seeking a pardon for the offence alleged to have been

committed by him and the council after discussion has decided to warn

and reinstate him and transfer him out of the college house. P5 also

states that the petitioner has not made an appeal therefore the council

decided to commence the inquiry with the available evidence at the

earliest. R6 shows that a prosecuting officer was also appointed to

prosecute the petitioner. In view of these documents the petitioner's

argument of undue delay in conducting the Inquiry fails.

On perusal of the documents and the petition and objections filed

this court can not see a single reason to grant the relief prayed by the

petitioner. The petitioner's application for writ can not be granted. The

application of the petitioner is refused.

c ~jP

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

5