==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I 1 )

! 'l ! 1 I I \ I I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A.NO.965/98 (F)

Kankanamge Chandana Geethapriya

No.92, MDH Pura, Pelawatta, Battaramulla

lOA Substituted Defendant-Appellant-Petitioner

Kankanamge Gunadasa Weligampitiya, Pokunuwita.

Deceased lOA Defendant-Appellant

D.C.HORANA CASE NO.3438/P Vs

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON

DECIDED ON

Don Matin Edirisinghe

And another

Plaintiff-Responde nt-Respondents

Aluthkoralage Jayanthi Weligampitiya, Pokunuwatta.

And others

Defendant-Respondent-Respondents

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J.

Sulari Gamage with K.N.Wijesinghe for the lOA Defendant-Appellan t -Petitioner

25.05.2014

04.06.2014 by the lOA substituted Defendant-Appellant-Petitioner

2ND JULY 2014

1

I I

CHITRASIRI, J.

Being aggrieved by the judgment dated- 22.06.1998 of the learned District Judge of

Horana, three appeals have been preferred to this Court and one of which is by the 10th

defendant. Having taken steps to list those appeals, Registrar of this Court issued notices on the

parties directing them to pay the brief fees in order to have the briefs prepared. No party

responded to those notices and accordingly, this Court rejected the appeals on 15.02.2012.

Thereafter, substituted lOA defendant-appellant-petitioner filed the petition dated 25.07.2013

and sought to have the appeal filed by the 10th defendant which bears the No.CA 965/98 (F), re-

listed vacating the aforesaid order dated 15.02.2012 delivered by this Court. The order so

delivered included the dismissal of the appeal of the 10th defendant as well. The decision for the

dismissal of the appeal was made in terms of the Rule 13(b) read with Rule 34 of the Supreme

Court Rules formulated on 11.02.1988.

Aforesaid Rule 13(b) of the Supreme Court Rules read thus:

"Where the appellant fails to pay the fees under these rules, the Court of appeal

may direct the appellant to comply with such directions as the Court may think fit to give, and may reject such appeal if the appellant fails to comply with such directions ".

Admittedly, the 1 oth defendant-appellant namely Kankanamge Gunadasa has not paid the

brief fees despite the notices sent to him on several occasions directing him to pay the brief fees.

Upon perusal of the journal entries in the docket maintained by the Registry, the 10th defendant-

appellant had been noticed for the first time by the notice dated 10.08.2011 directing him to

appear in this Court having listed the appeals for 29.08.2011. On the same date a copy of the said

2

! , J j j

1 1

notice had been sent to the registered attorney of the loth defendant-appellant as well. The case

had been mentioned on 29.08.2011 and the 10th defendant was absent and unrepresented on that

date. Thereafter, Court has directed the Registrar once again to re-issue notices to the appellants

as well as to the respondents. Accordingly, the notice dated 28.05.2011 had been sent again to

the 10th defendant-appellant directing him to be present in this Court on 12.10.2011. Since he

was absent on that date too, (12.10.2011) Court has directed the Registrar to issue notice to the

appellants once again informing them of the consequences of an order, if it is made in terms of

Rule 13(b) of the Supreme Court Rules. Accordingly, the Registrar of this Court, having

referred to the Rule 13(b) of the Supreme Court Rules, has sent notices to the lOth defendant-

appellant and to his Attorney, S.Weerasinghe directing to pay Rs.6,2001- as brief fees before

22.11.2011. The said notice sent to the 10th defendant had been returned with the endorsement

that the addressee had left the premises but the notice sent to the registered attorney had not been

returned. Accordingly, this Court has made order rejecting the appeal since the 10th defendant-

appellant has failed to pay the brief fees despite the several notices sent to him and to his

registered attorney. This application is to have the said order of this Court vacated and to have

the appeal re-listed for hearing.

Substituted 10th defendant-appellant-petitioner, in the affidavit he has filed with his

petition dated 25.07.2013, has stated that the 10th defendant was admitted to the hospital on

19.05.2011 and was discharged two days thereafter on 21.05.2011. Once again, he had been

admitted to the hospital on 27.07.2011 and was discharged on 5.08.2011. Subsequently, he had

died on 28.11/2011 at the Cancer Hospital, Maharagama. In that application for re-listing,

petitioner has also stated that the 1 Oth defendant had failed to pay the brief fees basically due to

his ill health. In that same petition, it is also stated that the lOth defendant was not living at the

3

I I I

f t

I I

address given in the petition of appeal after he was discharged from the hospital and the 10th

defendant, therefore was not in a position to receive the notices sent by this Court.

10th defendant-appellant was alive when all the three notices were sent. He was not an

inmate of the hospital either, when those notices were sent. He had died only on 28.11.2011 and

it was a date after all those notices were dispatched by this Court. The first two notices have not

been returned though those had been sent under registered cover. No evidence is forthcoming to

show that the two notices were not received by the 10th defendant. No material is found to

establish that there was nobody at the house where the 10th defendant was living when those two

notices were sent. Therefore, this Court will have to presume that the 10th defendant has received

those first two notices.

Moreover, this Court is not in a position to accept the evidence contained in the affidavit

of the petitioner as to the non-receipt of the notices by the 10th defendant because it is a matter

beyond the personal knowledge of the deponent. Such a fact can only be said by the person in

whose name those notices were sent. Accordingly, this Court is not inclined to decide that due

notice was not given to the 10th defendant-appellant, of the listing of this appeal for the purpose

of making the payment of the brief fees.

In the petition and also in the submissions filed on behalf of the lOA Substituted

defendant-petitioner, he has stated that the application for re-listing is basically on the basis of

ill-health of the 10th defendant. In this regard Amarasinghe,J, in Jinadasa and another v. Sam

Silva and others [1994 (1) N.L.R.at 234J has held thus:

"It cannot order the re-instatement of an application it had dismissed, unless

sujjicient cause for absence is alleged and established It cannot order reinstatement on compassionate grounds ".

4

In the light of the above authority of the Supreme Court, this Court is not inclined to

consider the ill-health of the 10th defendant in making an order as to the application for re-listing.

More importantly, it must be noted that the circumstances of the case show that three notices

have been sent by the Registrar of this Court to the Registered Attorney of the 10th defendant-

appellant as well, informing him of the listing of this appeal. He, being the Registered Attorney

of the 10th defendant-appellant owed a duty to inform this Court of the situation prevailed

enabling this Court to take necessary steps as to the payment of brief fees.

Duty cast upon the registered attorneys when they take the responsibility as a proxy

holder on behalf of a party to an action also had been highlighted in the aforesaid decision by Dr.

Amarasinghe J. In that decision it was held as follows;

"lO(a) since the petitioner had duly appointed a registered attorney they were obliged

to act through their registered attorney and not personally and, in general they were

bound by the act and omissions of their registered attorney. As far as the registered attorney in this case was concerned, the binding effect of his actions was based on the powers conferred by the terms of a standard, printed proxy in terms of Form 7 of the First Schedule to the Civil Procedure Code. It was neither extended expressly or impliedly, as it might have been, nor was it restricted".

" (b) If the parties are required by law or by the court to be present, then they must be present. In the case before court they did not have to be present once the registered

attorney had been duly appointed. In the circumstances, the petitioners were under no obligation to explain their absence. It was the default of the attorney that had to be considered. If the attorney, without sufficient excuse, was absent on the date appointed for hearing, the court, if it dismissed the application, is entitled to refuse to reinstate

the matter".

As held by Amarasinghe,J, it is my view that the failure on the part of the registered

attorney in this instance to inform Court as to the situation prevailed at all material times cannot

be ignored and excused. Under those circumstances, it is my opinion that the matters brought

5

I • II I

! I

1 • ,

r , ! II

I

\

J I 1

\ I j I I

I

before Court do not warrant allowing the application for re-listing of the appeal filed by the 10th

defendant.

For the afore~aid rea;ons, the application to have the~ppeai- filed by the 10th defendant

re-listed that was filed by the lOA defendant-Appell ant-Petitioner in his petition dated

21.07.2013 is refused.

Application refused

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

6