==== BLOCKS ==== 

• IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

BEFORE: A W A SALAM, J

WEERABADDANAG E PREM DASA, "MUNASINGHA STORES", KANDY ROAD, AMPARA PLAINTlFF·APPELLANT

UDENI GUNAWARDENA, "DISNA STORES", AMPARA DEFENDNAT·RESPONDENT

COUNSEL: MANOHARA DE SILVA PC WITH HIROSHA MUNASINGHA FOR THE PLAINTIFF -APPELLANT AND D M NILUKA SANJANI DISSANAYAKA FOR THE DEFENDANT-RESPONDENT. ARGUED ON: 17.11.2011. WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS TENDERED ON: 28.02.2012 AND 09.03.2012 DECIDED ON : 15.05.2012.

A W ABDUS SALAM, J lr his is an appeal from the judgement of the

learned district judge dated 9.12.1996,

dismissing the action, filed by the plaintiff-

appellant for a declaration of title to the subject

matter of the action and ejectment of the

defendant-respondent. The facts briefly are that

the plaintiff-appellant filed action against the

1

IWII-_

defendant-respondent seeking inter alia a

declaration of title as the lawful permit holder of

the land in suit. This being an action for

declaration of title, the burden is on the plaintiff-

appellant to prove the title to the land in suit. The

learned district judge dismissed his action on the

ground that he has failed to prove the permit (PI)

issued to him, at the most is valid only up to 318t

December 1993 and therefore the permit in

question was not valid as at the date when the

judgement was delivered.

The Learned President's Counsel submitted that

the plaintiff was in possession of a valid permit

when he flied action and the learned district

judge was in error by dismissing the action on the

basis that the plaintiff had failed to retain his title

throughout the case. The learned president's

counsel has further adverted to the evidence of

Seneviratna from the divisional secretary's office,

to the effect that the acceptance of the rent from

the defendant-appellant has been stopped from

1993, subsequent to the filing of the present

action.

It IS of importance to note that at the

commencement of the trial several admissions

were recorded. The admissions include the

identity of the corpus, the fact that the corpus

belongs to the State, a person by the name of

Munasingha was the original permit holder and

the said Munasingha handed over the subject

2

matter of the action to the defendant. In the

course of the trial, it was admitted that the

plaintiff-appellant was granted an annual permit

in respect of the subject matter of the action as is

evident from PI. The evidence led at the trial

indicated that the plaintiff-appellant has paid the

annual rent payable on the permit, in order to

renew the same on an annual basis up to 31 st of

December 1993. In the light of this evidence, it is

clear that the plaintiff-appellant had a valid

permit to the subject matter of the action, as at

19.5.1993 being the date on which the action was

instituted.

As is borne out in the evidence led at the trial,

there was no difficulty to conclude that the

plaintiff-appellant had a permit from the State to

possess the land which is the subject matter of

the action up to 31.12.1993. However, the

learned district judge at the time of delivering the

judgement raised two more issues without notice

to the parties and answered them against the

plaintiff-appellant and came to the conclusion

that the plaintiff-appellant did not retain the title

to the subject matter throughout the case.

One of the maIn matters that needs to be

considered in this judgement is the propriety of

the learned district judge having framed two

issues in the course of delivering the judgement.

No doubt in terms of section 149 of the Civil

Procedure Code the court is vested with the

3

discretion to frame issues at any time before

passing decree. However, such discretion has to

be exercised in the interest of Justice and to

ensure the right decision in the case. Above all,

when the judge exercises such discretion, he

should make up his mind as to whether it is

necessary to hear the parties on the new issues

so framed, to enable the parties lead fresh

evidence touching upon the new issues, in order

to assist court to come to a decision on those

issues. If the issues so framed by the learned

judge when reading of the judgement are purely

questions of law then it may not be necessary for

the parties to be given the opportunity of being

heard or adducing evidence on those issues. On

the other hand if the issues raised by the learned

judge in the course of delivering the judgment

are not purely questions of law but either

questions of fact or questions of mixed fact and

law then the parties should be gIven an

opportunity of meeting those issues.

The two issues framed by the learned district

judge in reading of the judgement are as follows.

22. Has the plaintiff been able to retain

his title until the pronouncement of

judgement?

23. If not, can the plaintiff have and

maintain the action?

The question as to whether the plaintiff had title

until the pronouncement of the judgement was

4

never the contemplation of either party or the

learned district judge in the course of the trial.

According to the learned district judge the

plaintiffs paid the annual rent up to 31st of

December 1993. By reason of the decision taken

by the Divisional Secretary not to act to· money

during the progress of the case, it may well be

that the plaintiff was not able to make the

payments. However in such a situation which is a

total impossibility on the part of the plaintiff, the

annual rent is an impediment to retain the title

has not been considered by the learned district

judge nor have the parties been afforded the

opportunity of meeting that question either by

way of submissions or evidence.

In my opinion, the learned district judge should

have allowed the parties to make submissions

andj or adduce evidence before he answered the

two issues raised after the conclusion of the case .

. In the circumstances, I am of the view that the

impugned judgement cannot be allowed to stand

and therefore set aside. Accordingly, the

judgement is set aside and the case is sent back

for a fresh trial.

There shall be no costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

KLj-

5