==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

Case No: CA 131/96

D.C. Mount Lavinia Case No: 1955/L

BEFORE : A.W.A. Salam, J

Lindamulage Deepthi Lalitha De Silva No. 20/5, St. Peter's Road, Moratuwa. Plaintiff

Vs. Ranaweeraarachchige Seetin No. 246, Manthrimulla, aththidiya, Dehiwala. Defendant. AND

Ranaweeraarachchige Seetin No. 246, Manthrimulla, aththidiya, Dehiwala.

Defendant-Appellant.

Vs.

Lindamulage Deepthi Lalitha De Silva of No. 20/5, St. Peter's Road, Moratuwa.

Plaintiff-Respondent.

COUNSEL : Ranjan Suwandarathne with Anil Rajakaruna for the Defendant-

Appellant and Anusha Gunasekara with Jayanthi Rodrigo for the Plaintiff-

Respondent.

ARGUED ON: 14.05.2012.

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS TENDERED ON: 29.11.2012

DECIDED ON: 29.01.2013.

Abdus Sal~m J.

This is an appeal from the judgment dated IZJ4.1ZJ4.1996 of the

district judge of Moratuwa. whereby the plaintiff was declared

entitled to the subject matter of the action. viz. the land and

premises more fully described in schedule 4 and the right to use

the roadway set out in schedule 5 of the plaint.

As narrated by the plaintiff in her plaint and later followed up in

the presentation of her case, the original owner of the larger land

of which the subject matter of this action has been subsequently

carved out was owned by one Subramaiam. One of the salient

features in the case was the admission made by the defendant

that he became the owner of the subject matter of the action on a

chain of title pleaded in paragraphs 2 to 7 of the plaint by virtue of

deed No 14889 dated 18 March 1985.

The defendant admitted having placed his signature on the deed by

which the plaintiff claimed that she became the owner of the land,

the ownership of which is now in dispute. The positions maintained

by the defendant in his answer inter alia is that the deed by which

the plaintiff claimed that she became the owner of the subject

matter (deed No 14889-Pl) was a conditional transfer whereby the

plaintiff advanced a sum of money to the defendant by way of a

loan transaction.

Quite remarkably the defendant neither raised the benefit of a

constructive trust or that the deed in question a mere sham. The

issues raised by the plaintiff related to the question of title and 0 z

Cl) CIJ cd u 2

whether she is entitled to relief as prayed for in the plaint. As

opposed to that the defendant raised six issues which centred

round the defendant's prescriptive title to the subject matter and

the alleged loan transaction.

The learned trial judge at the end held inter alia that the

acl-tnowledgement of title by the defendant has deprived him of the

right to set up prescriptive title and dismissed the claim made by

the defendant to the subject matter and gave judgment for the

plaintiff.

The central issue in this case is whether the deed of transfer Pl

conveys a valid title to the plaintiff free of any encumbrances or

any other conditions. As pointed out earlier the defendant has

neither raised the question of a constructive trust arising from Pl

or that the transaction in question as reflected in Pl is a mere

sham. It 1s elementary principle of evidence that in terms of

sections 91 of the Evidence Ordinance when the terms of a

contract. or of a grant. or of any other disposition of property is

required by Law to be reduced to the form of a document. no

evidence shall be given in proof of the terms of disposition of

property except the document itself. or secondary evidence of its

contents.

In terms of Section 92 of the Evidence Ordinance when the terms

of any such contract. grant. or other disposition of property. or any

matter required by law to be reduced to the form of a document.

have been proved. no evidence of any oral agreement or statement

shall be admitted as between the parties to any such instrument.

< C)

0 z

Cl) rn ro C) 3

or their representatives 1n interest. for the purpose of

contradicting, varying. adding to. or subtracting from its terms.

Proviso (1) to the above Section deals with facts that may be

proved to invalidate any document. Quite remarkably. the

exceptions to the rule of prohibition against the permissibility to

lead oral evidence are evidence to show fraud in the execution of

the document in question. intimidation. illegality. want of due

execution, want of capacity. Another prominent exception emerge

from Section 92 is the permissibility to prove the existence of any

separate oral agreement as to any matter on which the document

is silent. and which is not inconsistent with its terms.

It is appropriate. at this stage to find out exactly the defence put

forward by the defendant. The defence version as made out in the

course of the trial. reflects in issue No 3, 4. 5 and 6. The

cumulative effect of these issues are suggestive of a loan

transaction whereby the defendant had allegedly obtained a sum of

Rs. SIZJ,IZJIZJIZJ/- from the plaintiff at a monthly interest rate of 6%

and that the defendant had continuously paid the interest over a

period of time. These issues also raised the question of

prescriptive title of the defendant as against the plaintiff. by reason

of his long and continuous possession despite the deed of transfer

in question. The purported exemption relied by the defendant in

this case is clearly outside the permissible exceptions provided in

the Evidence Ordinance. namely that the deed in question Pl is not

an absolute transfer but a conditional transfer arising from a loan

transaction. As stated earlier the defendant has not raised the

existence of a constructive trust or that the documenpt is a mere

~ ()

0 z v rtJ (lj () 4

sham. In the circumstances the reason1ng adopted by the learned

district judge does not appear to me as blameworthy to interfere

with his decision.

In the circumstances. this court has no option but to dismiss the

appeal. There shall be no costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

NR/-

•

c5

0 z

Q.) rJJ ro 0 5