==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I I ! I

I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRILANKA

CA No : 1223/96(Final)

D.C.(Colombo) NO.29745/T

.' f

BEFORE: A.W.A.SALAM, J

Mode Jenewe Elnora Wijesinghe No.608,Aluthmawatha Para, Colombo 15.

PETION ER-RESPON DENT VS

Rosary de Silva 230, Kopiyawatha, Ragama.

Presently at :256 A4,Poigahena,

Ragama and others

PLAI NTI FF-RESPON DENT

COUNSEL: HARSH SOZA P.C WITH RAJINDRA PERERA FOR THE

PETITIONER-APPELLANT AND H. G.HUSSAIN FOR THE RESPONDENT-

RESPONDENTDR.

ARGUED ON : 23.01.2012

WRIITEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON : 04.05.2012

DECIDED ON : 22.01.2014.

A W A Salam, J

This is an appeal from the judgment dated 13 May 1996 pronounced by

the learned additional district judge of Colombo as to the validity of the

Last Will written by the testator in his own handwriting before five

t

I

I I I I

;'

witnesses in accordance with the provisions of section 4 of the prevention

of frauds Ordinance. The learned additional district judge held inter alia

that the Last Will in question had not been proved and proceeded to hold

that the Last Will is a forgery and that it contained not the signature of

the author whose name is mentioned in the will but a similar signature

placed fraudulantly on it and that the said will is not a document that can

be legally acceptable in Law. Accordingly, the learned additional district

judge held that the estate of the deceased should be administered as if he

had died without leaving a Last Will. The present appeal has been

preferred against the said judgment and decree entered by the learned

Addl. district judge.

Quite surprisingly, in the impugned judgment the learned district that has

not analyzed the evidence adduced as to the existence of the will giving

such weight to the evidence pointing to the testamentary capacity of the

author of the Last Will. For reasons of her own, the learned additional

district judge has raised the question in the judgment as to what made

t~e author of the will to prepare and sign the same one and a half years

before his death had occurred at the time when he was really in good

health. This clearly suggests that the learner district judge was of the

opinion that the will written before a period of one and a half years before

the death of someone cannot be considered as his act and deed and that

it should be written in close proximity to the occurrence of death. This

opinion held by the learned additional district judge is not consistent with

the law governing the subject and has in fact resulted in great prejudice

being caused to the propounder of the will.

No doubt, the burden to prove the Last Will that has been put forward

before the learned district judge was on the propounder of the will and it

was his duty to satisfy the conscience of the court that the Last Will is the

act and deed of a free and capable testator. The learned additional district

2

If ,

~

l

f i I! r t

; i iI! f {

i !

1

I J

I

judge unfortunately has failed to address her mind to this legal

requirement before she came to the conclusion that the Last Will did not

contain the signature of the testator.

A perusal of the reasoning adopted by the learned district judge <;:learly

points to a travesty of Justice. In the circumstances, I set aside the

impugned judgment and send the case back for retrial.

No order for costs of this appeal is made as the respondents are not to be

blamed for the case being referred back to the original court for retrial.

~~ .. Judge of the Court of Appeal

NRj-

3