==== BLOCKS ==== 

-. .

I ';

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for writs in the nature of Certiorari

and Prohibition under and in terms of Article 140 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Rasiah Thurairatnam

Petitioner

Vs CA 178/2012

Before Sisira de Abrew J Anil Gooneratne J

A.W.A.Salam J

1. Sivanesathurai Chandraknthan Chief Minister- Eastern Province 2. Rear Admiral (Retd) Mohan Wijewickrama Governor, Eastern Province. 3. M S Subair, Minister of Health Eastern Provincial Council. 4. T Navaratnarajaj Minister of Agriculture Eastern Provincial Council. 5. M. S. Uthuma Lebbe, Minister of Road Development, Irrigation Housing and Construction, Rural Electrification and Water Supply -Eastern provincial Council. 6. Wimalaweera Dissanayake. Mimister of Education - Eastern provincial Council. 7. Daya Gamage. Leader of the Opposition. Eastern provincial Council. 8. Mahinda Deshapriya. Commissioner of Elections.

Respondents

Counsel

Argued on Decided on

2

Kanag Iswaran P.C. with MA Sumanthiran and B Fonseka for the Petitioner

Faiz Musthapa P.C. with Kuwera de Zoysa, NM Shaheed, Ashiq Hassim and J Kroon for the 1 st Respondent. Janak de Silva DSG with Sumathi Dharmawardene SSC and Sanjaya Kodithuwakku for the 2nd and 8th Respondents.

Faizer Mustapa for the 3rd Respondent

Kalinga Indatissa with Niroshan Siriwardene Indika Giragama and Kosala Perera for the 4th Respondent

Kushan de Alwis with Chamath Fernando instructed by Mary Dickman for the 5th Respondent

MUM Ali Sabri with Kasun Premarathne and Athula de Silva for the 6th Respondent

Eroj de Silva instructed byPaul Ratnayake Associates for the t h Respondent

25.07.2012,26.07.2012,30.07.2012 9.08.2012

Sisira de Abrew J.

The Petitioner who was a member of the Eastern Provincial Council states

that on 23.04.2012 S.Pushparaja, a member of the Eastern Provincial Council gave

notice of an urgent resolution to be taken up on 24.04.2012 and requested that the

resolution be included in the agenda of the Provincial Council. The said resolution

marked P3 stated inter-alia the following matters;

1. There were many reports in the news papers to the effect that the Eastern

Provincial Council would be dissolved before expiration of its 5 year term

which ends after 10.05.2013.

2. The dissolution of the Eastern Provincial Council would occasion a loss of

faith by the people in the Government and the Provincial Council.

tf

t

f

l

~f

fl[!

f

tIlIt!Ir

fI!

ft ! I

! 1tI

3

3. Eastern Provincial Council should continue to function until the end of its

term.

The Petitioner states that the said Resolution was taken up for discussion and

adopted without objection. However the 2nd Respondent (2R), by gazette

Notification dated 27.06.2012 (PI), dissolved the Eastern Provincial Council with

effect from midnight 27.06.2012. The Petitioner in this Petition, among other

things, challenged the decision of the 2R. The 8

th Respondent (8R) has, as a result

of the said dissolution, taken steps to conduct election for the Eastern Provincial

Council. The Petitioner filed this Petition in this court seeking following reliefs:

(a). Issue notice on the Respondents

(b). Make an interim Order suspending the second Respondent's decision to

dissolve the Eastern Provincial Council reflected in PI until the hearing and

final determination of this application

(c) make an interim order preventing the 8th Respondent and lor his officers,

subordinates or agents from taking any steps whatsoever to hold elections to

the Eastern Provincial Council until the hearing and final determination of

this application

(d). Grant an issue a Mandate in the nature of a Writ of Certiorari quashing the

aforesaid advice if the 1 st Respondent to the 2nd Respondent to dissolve the

Eastern Provincial Council; AND/OR

(e). Grant an issue a Mandate in the nature of a Writ of Certiorari quashing the

decision aforesaid of the 2nd Respondent reflected in PI to dissolve the

Eastern Provincial Council on 2th June 2012; ANDIOR

(t). Grant an issue a Mandate in the nature of a Writ of Prohibition preventing

the 8th Respondent and lor his officers, subordinates or agents from taking

any steps to hold elections to the Eastern Provincial Council arising as a

4

consequence of the dissolution complained of in these proceedings; ANDI

OR

(g). Grant an issue a Mandate in the nature of a Writ of Certiorari quashing any

steps taken by the 8th Respondent and lor his officers, subordinates or agents

from taking any steps to hold elections to the Eastern Provincial Council

ansmg as a consequence of the dissolution complained of in these

proceedings;

(h) Grant costs;

Learned President's Counsel for the petitioner (PC) drew the attention of Court to

several Articles in the Constitution in the 13th Amendment. Article 154F(1) states

as follows.

"There shall be a Board of Ministers with the Chief Minister at the head and not

more than 4 other Ministers to aid an advice the Governor of a Province in the

exercise of his functions. The Governor shall, in the exercise of his functions, act

in accordance with such advice, except in so far as he is by or under the

Constitution require to exercise his functions or any of them in his discretion."

Learned P.C. for the Petitioner drawing our attention to the above

article contended that the Governor (2R) in the exercise of his powers to dissolve

the Provincial Council must, in terms of the said Article [154 F (1) of the

constitution], act on the advice of the Board of Ministers of the Provincial

Council. In order to appreciate this contention it is necessary to consider Article

154 B(8) of the Constitution which reads as follows:

"8(a) omitted

8(b) The Governor may, from time to time, prorogue the Provincial Council.

8( c) The Governor may dissolve the Provincial Council

I. I\ l

5

8( d) The Governor shall exercise his powers under this paragraph in accordance

with the advice of the Chief Minister, so long as the Board of Ministers commands,

in the opinion of the Governor, the support of the majority of the provincial

Council."

Although learned PC contended on the above lines, Article 154F(1) of the

Constitution states that the Governor has to act on the advice of the Board of

Ministers of the Provincial Council in accordance with his functions. This article

does not talk about the dissolution of the Provincial Council. Article 154B(8) does

not talk about a situation where the Governor has to act on the advice of the Board

of Ministers of the Provincial Council in the exercise of his powers to dissolve the

Provincial Council. In the exercise of the Governor's powers to dissolve the

Provincial Council, whose advice he has to act on in terms of Article 154B(8) of

the Constitution? It is the advice of the Chief Minister. For these reasons I reject

the contention of learned PC for the petitioner.

Learned PC for the petitioner drawing our attention to Article 154B (8)

of the Constitution next contended that for the Governor to exercise his powers

under this Article, he must form the opinion that the Board of Ministers commands

the support of the majority of the Provincial Council on the question of

dissolution. But when I consider Article 154 B (8) (d), it does not support the

l

Ii

~

t

~

~

i

l

I

I

i

above contention. What it says is that the Governor must form the opinion that the I

IBoard of Ministers commands the support of the majority of the Provincial I

Council. Does it say that particular subject must be specified when the Governor I

forms the opinion envisaged in 154B(8)(d) of the Constitution? The answer is NO.

Even the other Articles of the 13th Amendment do not support this contention.

What Article 154B(8)( d) says is that the Governor must form the opinion that the

6

Board of Ministers commands the support of the majority of the Provincial

Council. For these reasons I reject the said contention of learned PC.

Learned PC for the petitioner next contended that the Governor could not

have dissolved the Provincial Council in view of the resolution P3. What P3 says

is that the Eastern Provincial Council should continue to function its full term. In

short what it says inter alia is that the Provincial Council should not be dissolved

before the expiration of its full term. Can the Provincial Council pass such a

resolution? Under our Constitution who is empowered to dissolve the Provincial

council? Is it the Provincial council? The answer is no. It is the Governor who is

empowered to dissolve the Provincial Council. P3 has the effect of nullifying the

power of dissolution of Provincial Council given to the Governor by the

Constitution. If P3 is accepted as a correct legal document then the Governor

cannot act under Article IS4B(8)(d) of the Constitution. Therefore P3 has no

validity in law. I therefore hold that there is no duty on the part of the Governor to

act on P3.

Further according to Section 27(e) of Regulations made under the Provincial

Council Act No 42 of 1987 marked as 2RIA, Provincial Council cannot pass

resolution indicating the manner in which the President, Governor, Minister,

Member of Parliament, Member of Provincial Council, or any officer should

work. But P3 has indicated that the Provincial Council should not be dissolved

before expiration of its full term. Thus it indicates that as to how the Governor

should act on the question of dissolution of the Provincial Council. Therefore it is

clear that P3 is against Section 27(e) of the said Regulations. For these reasons I

hold that the Governor had no duty to act on P3. Further it has to be noted that

after P3 was adopted, the Chief Minister, by document marked 2R3 dated

27.6.2012, advised the Governor to dissolve the Provincial Council. The Eastern

7

Provincial Council consists of 37 members. The Chief Minister along with his

letter of advice marked 2R3 has annexed affidavits of eighteen members of the

Provincial Council stating that the Board of Ministers of the Eastern Provincial

Council commands their support. Thus the said affidavits and the letter of Chief

Minister indicate that the Board of Ministers of the Eastern Provincial Council

commands the support of the majority of the Provincial Council. Thus the above

material would indicate that even after the adoption of resolution there was

evidence for the Governor to form the opinion that the Board of Ministers

commands the support of the majority of the Provincial Council. I am therefore

unable to agree with the said submission of learned PC for the petitioner.

It was contended on behalf of the petitioner that the letter of advice sent

by the Chief Minister to the Governor on 27.6.2012 would tarnish confidence that

the Provincial Council members had with the Board of Ministers and that

therefore Governor should, after he received the said letter of advice, ascertain

from the members of the Provincial Council whether they would still support the

Board of Ministers. On this point learned Counsel stressed the fact that the

affidavits had been signed on 21.06.2012. Mr Sunanthiran learned counsel for the

petitioner (As Mr. Kanag Iswaran President's Counsel was not available after the

first day his learned junior Mr. Sumanthiran appeared for the petitioner from the

2nd day) contended that the Governor could not have acted on the said affidavits

and he should have gone to the floor of the house of the Provincial Council and

ascertained whether the Board of Ministers commanded the support of the

majority of the Provincial Council. Cannot the Governor form the opinion on the

affidavits signed by the 18 members and the letter of the Chief Minister? It would

be pertinent to consider the judgment of the Privy Council in Adegbenro V s

Akintola [1963]AC 614 in order to find an answer to this question. Facts of that

~

t

t

~

8

case are briefly as follows: After receipt of a letter signed by a majority of

members of the House of Assembly for Western Nigeria stating that they no

longer supported the Premier, Governor removed him from office. In removing

the Premier from office, Governor acted on receipt of the said letter dated 21 st of

May 1962, signed by 63 members of the House of Assembly in which it was

stated that they no longer supported Chief Akintola. The House of Assembly

consisted of 124 members. The proceedings were commenced by a writ of

summons dated 21 st of May 1962 by the 1 st respondent who was then Premier of

Western Nigeria against the Governor of Western Nigeria, the 2nd respondent,

claiming a declaration that the Governor had no right to relieve the Premier from

office in the absence of a prior resolution of the House of Assembly reached on

the floor of the House to the effect that the Premier no longer commands the

support of the House. When the case came up before the Chief Justice of the

Western Region it was agreed by counsel for all parties that the following issues

be referred to Federal Supreme Court pursuant to Section 108 of the Constitution

of the Federation of Nigeria:

1. Can the Governor validly exercise power to remove the Premier from office

under Sec 33 (10) of the Constitution of Western Nigeria without prior

decision or resolution on the floor of the House of Assembly showing that

the Premier no longer commands the support of a majority of the House?

2. Can the Governor validly exercise power to remove the Premier from office

under Sec 33 (10) of the Constitution of Western Nigeria on the basis of

material or information extraneous to the proceedings of the House of

Assembly?

ttI

I

f

fI

tlI

!! iI

! I!III !! I

~ !

9

After overruling preliminary objections the Federal Supreme Court by a majority

answered the question in the following terms:-

The answer to the 1 st question is that the Governor cannot validly exercise power to

remove the Premier from office under Section 33( 1 0) of the Constitution of

Western Nigeria except in consequence of proceedings on the floor of the house

whether in the shape of a vote of no confidence or of a defeat on a major measure

or of a series of defeats on measures of some importance showing that the Premier

no longer commands the support of a majority of the members of the House of

Assembly. The court found it unnecessary to answer the 2nd question.

The appellant appealed to the Privy Council. Section 33(10) of the Constitution of

Western Nigeria reads as follows:

"Subject to the provisions of sub-ss 8 and 9 of this Section, the Ministers of the

Government of the Region shall hold office during the Governor's pleasure:

Provided that- (a) the Governor shall not remove the Premier from office unless it

appears to him that the Premier no longer commands the support of a majority of

the members of the House of Assembly; and (b) the Governor shall not remove a

Minister other than the Premier from office except in accordance with the advice of

the Premier."

Privy Council held: "Under the Constitution of Western Nigeria there is no

limitations on the persons whom the Governor may consult or the material to

which he may resort in determining whether the condition set out in Sec.33(10) of

the Constitution empowering him to remove the Premier from office is satisfied,

the condition being that it appears to the Governor that the Premier no longer

commands the support of a majority of the members of the House of Assembly.

The Governor could validly exercise the power to remove the Premier from office

10

under Sec.33(10) of the Constitution of Western Nigeria without there having

been a prior decision or resolution on the floor of the House of Assembly showing

that he no longer commanded the support of the majority of the House; and the

Governor could act in this respect on the basis of material or information

extraneous to the proceedings of the house of Assembly."

According to this judgment the Governor could act on the basis of material or

information extraneous to the proceedings of the House of Assembly. Under the

Constitution of Western Nigeria the Governor has to form the opinion under

Section 33(10) of the Constitution that the Premier no longer commands the

support of the majority of the members of the House of Assembly. Under article

154B (8) (d) of our Constitution too, the Governor has to form the opinion that the

Board of Ministers commands the support of the majority of the provincial

Council. When I consider this judgment and Article 154B(8)( d) of our

Constitution, I hold the view that the Governor could, without going to the floor of

the House, form the said opinion on credible evidence before him. But this does

not mean that the Governor is precluded from forming his opinion on the floor of

the house. In the instant case has anyone of the 18 members withdrawn the

affidavits signed by them? The answer is no. Then it is reasonable for the Governor

to form the opinion that the stand that they had taken in the affidavits remains

unchanged. For the above reasons I hold that the Governor could form the opinion

on the affidavits signed by the 18 members and the Chief Minister's letter.

When I consider the contention of learned counsel for the petitioner I have to

consider paragraph 8 of the Governor's affidavit which reads as follows: "In the

light of the aforesaid communication dated 2th of June 2012 from the Chief

Minister of the Eastern Provincial Council and the certified affidavits of 18

Provincial Council members tendered therewith, I form the opinion that the Board

lIJ

I! I If

It! 1II

,i

~ r

11

of Ministers of the Eastern Provincial Council commanded the support of the

majority of the Eastern Provincial Council. Therefore I, acting in terms of the

powers vested in me by Article 154B (8) of the Constitution of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka in accordance with the advice tendered by the

Chief Minister of the Eastern Province, dissolved the Eastern Provincial Council

with effect from midnight 27th June 2012."

The above paragraph shows that the Governor has formed the opinion after

he received the affidavits of 18 Provincial Council members and the Chief

Minister's letter. Article 154B(8)(d) of the Constitution provides that the

Governor can exercise his powers to dissolve the Provincial Council in

accordance with the advice of the Chief Minister so long as Board of Ministers in

his opinion, commands the support of the majority of the Provincial Council. The

above paragraph of the Governor's affidavit shows that at the time of dissolution

he had formed the opinion that the Board of Ministers commanded the support of

the majority of the Provincial Council. Therefore the above contention advanced

on behalf of the Petitioner has to be rejected.

The Petitioner contends that the Chief Minister, in view of the

resolution P3 could not have advised the Governor to dissolve the Provincial

Council and that therefore his decision (Chief Minister's decision) is void. The

resolution was adopted on 24.04.2012. The dissolution was on 27.06.2012. If the

above contention is right when the Chief Minister expresses his opinion that the

Provincial Council should run for its full term he cannot later advice the Governor

to dissolve the Provincial Council. Cannot the Chief Minister who, on a previous

occasion, spoke in support of the period of full term, later change his decision?

This question should be answered in the affirmative. If the above argument is

• 12

correct, Article 154B (8) (d) and 154F would be rendered nugatory. For these

reasons I am unable to accept the said contention.

It appears from the material available, when the Governor decided to

dissolve the Eastern Provincial Council, he had the following matters for his

consideration

(a)He (the Governor) had the advice of the Chief Minister to dissolve the

Provincial Council.

(b) At the time of dissolution he (the Governor) had formed the opinion that

the Board of Ministers commanded the support of the majority of the

Provincial Council.

Therefore the question that must be asked is whether the Governor, under these

circumstances, can rightly dissolve the Provincial Council. On this matter, it is

pertinent to consider the judgment of the Supreme Court in Maithripala

Senanayake, Governor of the North Central Province and Another Vs Gamage Don

Mahindasoma and Others [1998] 2SLR 333. In the said case the Chief Minister

advised the Governor not to dissolve the Provincial Council. But the Governor

dissolved the Provincial Council. Chief Minister challenged the dissolution in the

Court of Appeal which set aside the dissolution. The Governor appealed to the

Supreme Court. His Lordship Justice Amarasinghe affirming the judgment of the

Court of Appeal at page 363 observed thus: "Since the Board of Ministers in the

opinion of the Governor commanded the support of the majority of the Provincial

Council, there was only one, uniquely right course of action prescribed - to follow

the advice of the Chief Minister in deciding whether to exercise his power of

dissolution. There was no discretion. By his failure to act in accordance with the

Ii!,

iI,I!ItIIII! It

f !(il!,

~ i

f

~ tI

t!tf1I!

! 1I I! i

II

• 13

duty imposed on him by law, the Governor acted illegally." His lordship at page

367 observed further: "Where the Chief Minster advised Governor against

dissolution, the Governor had no option in the matter: He was required by Article

154B (8) (d) to act in accordance with the advice of the Chief Minister, for the

Governor was of the opinion that the Board of Ministers commanded the support

of the Provincial Council."

When I consider the above legal literature I hold the view that the

dissolution of the Provincial Council by the Governor which is in terms of Article

154B (8)(d) of the Constitution is right. The petitioner's case should therefore fail.

There is another matter that I should consider. There are 37 members in

the Eastern Provincial Council. The petitioner has named only six members of the

provincial Council. Thus he has failed to bring the other 30 members of the

Provincial Council. What happens if we decide to quash the dissolution when they

are content with the dissolution? Will our decision then affect their rights? Should

we not hear them before we make a decision in this case? On this point I would

like to discuss certain judicial decisions.

Jayawardene and Another Vs Pegasus Hotels of Ceylon Ltd [2004] 2 SLR

39 Court of Appeal observed the following facts: "The petitioner (employee) and

the 2

nd petitioner (Union) sought to quash the order made by the Commissioner

giving approval to terminate the services of 36 employees subject to the payment

of compensation. It was contended that the Commissioner failed to apply the law

correctly in computing compensation, acted arbitrarily, did not make all inquiries

and the order was unreasonable. The 8th respondent opposed the application and

contended that all the employees are not named, especially those 30 employees

who have accepted compensation, and the record has not been tendered to court."

• 14

Justice Saleem Marsoof (Justice Sripavan agreeing) held: "There is no doubt that

the 30 employees who have accepted compensation will be affected but it appears

that the majority of them were members of the 2nd petitioner union which is

entitled to represent them." It appears from the above judgment that Union had

represented all 36 members. The facts of the instant case are different to the facts

of that case. In the instant case 30 Provincial Members are not represented. They

are not parties to this case. Therefore the above judgment has no application to the

facts of the instant case.

In Rawaya Publishers and others Vs Wijedasa Rajapaksha Chairman Sri

Lanka Press Council & Otheres [2001] 3 SLR 213 Court of Appeal observed the

following facts: "The petitioner sought to quash the order made by the respondents

wherein they (the Sri Lanka Press Council) directed the petitioner to apologize to

the complainant X within one month from the receipt of the said order. The

Complainant X was the Secretary General of the J anatha Vimukthi Peramuna

(JVP). A preliminary objection was raised, that the said X in whose favour the

order which is sought to be made has not been made a party to the application."

Justice JAN De Silva (as he then was) held that: "In the context of writ

applications a necessary party is one without whom no order can be effectively

made. The order of Press Council is in his (X) favour. The petitioner cannot be

permitted to proceed with an application keeping the original complainant out of

proceedings. "

In Abeywardene and 162 Others Vs Dr. Stanly Wijesundara, Vice

Chancellor, University of Colombo and Another [1983] 2 SLR 267 Court of

Appeal observed the following facts: "The petitioners sought a writ of mandamus

to issue on the respondents to compel them to hold the 2nd MBBS only for students

,

l

II

f

I

I

f It;

•

•

15

of the University of Colombo." Court held thus: "The whole petition is directed

against the 115 students of the North Colombo Medical College and their

exclusion from the 2nd MBBS examination. If a mandamus is issued they will be

adversely affected. The 115 students of the North Colombo Medical College are

necessary parties and the failure to make them respondents is fatal to the

petitioner's application."

In Farook Vs Siriwardene, Election Officer and Others [1997] 1 SLR 145

the appellant was a member of the Colombo Municipal Council. After calling for

his explanation, the recognized political party to which he belonged expelled him

from the membership of the party by writing. A copy of the communication

addressed to the appellant was sent to the Election Officer who gazetted the

requisite notice of vacancy in the membership of the Council, in terms of Section

10A(1)(a) of the Local Authorities Election Ordinance. Consequently the

recognized political party nominated a new member in terms of Section 65A(2) of

the Ordinance. Supreme Court held thus: The failure to make the new member a

party to the application is fatal to the validity of the application."

In B. Wijerathne, Commissioner of Motor Traffic Vs Venerable Dr.

Paragoda SC Appeal No.84/2007 decided on 14.10.20, His Lordship Gamini

Amarathunga (Justice Sripavan and Chandra Ekanayake agreeing) held thus: "A

necessary party to an application for a writ of mandamus is the officer or the

authority who has the power vested by law to perform the act or the duty sought to

be enforced by the writ of mandamus. All persons who would be affected by the

issue of mandamus also shall be made respondents to the application."

In my view if we decide to quash the dissolution, our decision would affect

the rights of the other Provincial Council members who may be content with the

)

f

~ ff!

~ I I I!

•

16

dissolution and the other Provincial Council members. I therefore hold that they

are necessary parties and the petitioner has failed to bring them before Court.

Applying the principles laid down in the above judicial decisions, I hold that

failure to make them as parties is fatal and that the petitioner's case should be

dismissed on this ground alone.

F or the aforementioned reasons I dismiss the petition of the petitioner and

refuse to issue notice on the respondents.

Petition dismissed.

Judge of the r-:

Anil Gooneratne J

I agree. Q:-C? G ~~.Q;",

Judge of~ Appeal

AWA SalamJ

I agree ~ ...

Judge of the Court of Appeal

I

t

!If , : "