==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A. WRIT Application No. 130/2013

1. K.K.S. Premathilake 25, Kudagama Rd, Avissawella. 2. W.D. Somapala 15C, Temple Junction, Waragoda, Neboda. 3. E.G.J.K. Pemaratne 175, Aluthgama, Bogamuwa, Yakkala. 4. K.P.Somadaa 267/2, Welikemulla , Badulla

5. T.B.Sangadasa 3/14, gangabada Road, Badulla. 6. W.D. Fonseka 534/7, Preethika Mw, Pitipana North, Homagama. 7. M .A.Somaweera Barigoda, Kithalawa. 8. B.M.S. Balasuriya Aluthwatha, Thalgamuwa, Dewanagala. 9. B.J. Silva 137/12, Devasipura, Thalawakele. 10. B.M.S.K. Punchibandara Naulla, Demodara. 11. H.P. Samarasena Udagama, Moranthota. 12. J.M. Jagath Kumara Gallehamulla, Welipalangahamulla.

Petitioners.

Vs.

1. Vidyajyothi Dr. Dayasiri Frenando , Chairman, Public Service Commission. 2. Palitha M. Kumarasinghe PC 3. Mrs. Sirimavo A. Wijeratne 4. S.C.Mannapperuma 5. Ananda seneviratna 6. N.H.Pathirana 7. S.Thillanandaraja 8. M.D.W. Ariyawansa 9. A.Mohamed Nahiya

All are Members, Public Service Commission No.177, Nawala Road, Narahenpita, Colombo 05. 10. K.Thilakaratne, Secretary Ministry of Youth Affairs and Skill Development, Nipunatha Piyasa, 354/2, Elwitagala Mw, Colombo 5.

11. Department of Technical Education and Training, P.O. Box 557, Olcott Mw,Colombo 10. 12. W.A.Jayawickrema, Additional Secretary Director General (covering up), Department of Technical Education and Training, P.O.Box 557, Olcott Mw, Colombo 10. 13. P. K.Sarathchandra, Administrative Officer, Department of Technical Education and Training, Colombo 10. 14. Hon. Attorney General Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

Respondents

C.A./130/2013

Before:

Counsel

Argued & Decided on

1

S. Sriskandarajah, J. (P /CA).

P. Radhakrishnan for the Petitioner.

30.05.2013

S. Sriskandarajah, I. (PICA).

The Petitioners in this application has sought a writ of mandamus

directing the 1st to the 12th respondents to appoint the Petitioners to Class I

General Grade of the SL TES with effect from the effective date of the

appointments to the Class I of the SLTES. It is the submission of the

Petitioner that the Public Service of Commission who is the appointing

authority has given direction by document marked by P6 to appoint the

Petitioners to Class I Grade I.

The Administrative Officer of the relevant department has

communicated to the Petitioner informing him that as he does not have

the required qualification, as such the appoint cannot be implemented.

The Petitioners have failed to bring this matter to the Public Service

Commission and to get an order to the effect that the requirement of

• 2

English qualification is not necessary for these appointments. The power

of appointment is vested with the Public Service Commission it is the

Public Service Commission that has to finally rule whether the English

qualification is required or not for the said appointment. As the Petitioner

has not sought clarification on that issue, this Court cannot entertain this

application for the reason that the application is premature and as the

Public Service Commission order are immuned under Articles 61(A) of

the constitution this Court cannot consider the order of the Public Service

Commission. For these reasons this Court refuses notice.

PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

Mm/-.