==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 881/98 F D.C.Ratnapura Case No. 9625/L

Haduwalage Somarathne, Willuliya, Madalagama.

Appellant Vs. Haduwalage Kiritheris Willuliya, Madalagama.

Respondent

j !

J I

\ 1 1 1

j j I I 1 t t l I j l i 1 I ., i I I

t 1 I J j $ t l ,

C.A. No. 881/98 F

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED &

DECIDED ON

K.T. CHITRASIRI J.

D.C.Ratnapura Case No. 9625(L

K.T. Chitrasiri J.

Parties are absent and unrepresented

03.04.2014

The Registrar of this Court has sent notices under registered cover to

both parties and to their Registered Attorneys directing them to be present in

this Court today. The letter sent to the Plaintiff- Respondent had been returned

with the endorsement that he has left the given address. It is to the address

given by the Appellant that this notice had been sent.

The Defendant Appellant is not present even though the notice that were

sent by the Registrar directing him to appear in this Court today has not been

returned. The said notice had been sent to the address given in the petition of

appeal. Therefore, it is seen that the Appellant is not prosecuting this appeal

diligently. Hence this appeal is taken up for consideration now.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the order dated 30.03.1998 of the

learned District Judge of Ratnapura. By that order learned District Judge

disallowed an application to vacate the ex-parte judgment entered in this case.

Being aggrieved by the said order, the Defendant-Appellant has filed this

1

! 1 I '1 I I j t I

f I 1 I 1 I 1 I ] 1

,

appeal to have the ex-parte decree vacated and to have the case taken up for

trial a fresh.

The application made by the Appellant to have the ex-parte decree

vacated is on the basis that he did not hear the trial date when the case was

mentioned on 20.01.1997, to fIx the case for trial. On that date, not only the

appellant but his wife and the mother also was present in Court. Therefore, the

next date could have"been heard by the wife and the mother of the Appellant as

well. In the circumstances, the reasons adduced by the appellant for not

attending Court on the trial date cannot be accepted.

Those are the very reasons given by the learned District Judge when he

disallowed the application of the Appellant. I do not see any error in those

fIndings. Accordingly, this appeal is dismissed without costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

CN/-

2