==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

1. Dissanayake Mudiyanselage Sugath

C.A 97-98/2011

Nanda alias Bandu

Madagedera, Wewathenna

Maliyanda.

2. Dissanayake Mudiyanselage

Weerasinghe alias Chuti

Madagedera, Wewathenna

Maliyanda.

ACCUSED-APPELLANTS

H.C. Badulla 74/2008

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka J.

Vs.

Hon. The Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

RESPONDNET

Jeffrey Zeinudeen for Accused-Appellants

V.K. Malalgoda Add!. S.G. for the Respondent

25.03.2014

I

I 1

\ 1

1 1 I I l I I I ! I !

2

DECIDED ON: 03.04.2014

GOONERATNE J.

The 1

st & 2

nd Accused-Appellants were convicted of gang rape of a

woman described in the indictment as Basnayake Mudiyanselage Seelawathie

and both of them sentenced to 10 years Rigorous Imprisonment and a fine of

Rs. 10,000/- and in default of payment of fine to a sentence of 6 months

Rigorous Imprisonment. Both Accused were also ordered to pay compensation

to the prosecutrix in a sum of Rs. 50,000/- and in default of payment of

compensation to 2 years Rigorous Imprisonment.

To state very briefly the facts of this case are as follows. On

22.12.2005 the husband of the prosecutrix was not in the house at the time

the incident took place. He was at a party in another house away from the

place of incident. The prosecutrix was a mother of 3 children, all three being

girls. Prosecutrix has described the situation of the house which consists of

two rooms. The rooms are separated by a curtain (there is no door) which was

a saree used as a curtain to separate the two rooms. The house had only two

I

I

i

I

f

t!II

Iff(

I

I;

~ !

f! [

I i

I ! ! I 1 j

I

j I

3

doors one being the front door and behind was the kitchen door. According to

the evidence of the prosecutrix' her husband left for the party at about 6.30

p.m. Thereafter she cooked and fed the children and went to sleep and

awaiting the arrival of the husband. At about 11.30 p.m she heard a tap on the

-kitchen door. The kitchen door was in two pieces and a mammotty was kept

on the door to keep the door closed. Then the two accused pushed opened

the kitchen door and got into the house.

The prosecutrix was able to identify the Accused with the light from

the bottle lamp. Both Accused are from the same village and the prosecutrix

identified them by their names. Thereafter the 2nd Accused held the

prosecutrix and forced her to the ground, ... ®® (f@@>eCS>eS> m®D BX:>m>e ~)

(pg. 39) and committed the act of rape. After some time the 2

nd Accused came.

He pushed the 2nd Accused and committed the act of rape on her. At that

moment the prosecutrix became unconscious. When she regained

consciousness she saw both accused leaving the house. Thereafter the

husband came home at about 12.30 p.m., and the prosecutrix narrated the

incident. Husband hearing the narration had been emotional at that moment

and wanted to take revenge but prosecutrix persuaded the husband not to do

4

anything by clinging on to him. Thereafter both of them made complaints to

the police at the first available opportunity and time in the morning.

At the hearing before this court the learned counsel for the Accused-

Appellant submitted that the position of the defence was a total denial of the

offence. Learned counsel for the Accused-Appellant attempted to argue that

the prosecutrix has failed to explain the absence of consent. He also referred

to the fact that the children were in the other room and it was not possible to

perform any act of rape without disturbing them. Counsel also referred to the

dock statements of the two Accused. It was suggested by referring to the dock

statement that both the Accused were at the same party and they went to

sleep after 12.00 midnight.

The learned Additional Solicitor General referred to the fact that the

prosecutrix evidence had not been challenged by the Accused-Appellants at

the trial. Nor was a defence of consent suggested to the prosecutrix. He

invited this court to the medical report which indicate 2 injuries caused to the

body which is consistent with the version of the prosecutrix. No injury to the

vagina.

It is not in dispute that the evidence of the prosecutrix was not

challenged by the defence. The medical report other than the two injuries to

\

I

i ,

1 J I

5

the body as stated above does not show any injury to the vagina. It is

acceptable since the prosecutrix is a married woman with 3 children, who by

the date of the incident lived with the husband for about 17 years. Having

perused the judgment we find that the learned High Court Judge has correctly

approached the case and considered the evidence of the prosecutrix with

other evidence inclusive of the medical report and arrived at a conclusion to

find the Accused-Appellant guilty of gang rape. We note that the evidence of

the prosecutrix satisfy the test of consistency. The prosecution has proved the

case beyond reasonable doubt. We see no real basis to interfere with the

judgment of the learned High Court Judge. We affirm the conviction and the

sentence, and we proceed to dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL