==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C A 787/96 F

DC Embilipitiya 3621/L

G.B.Piyadasa,

Beddewewa,

Udakella,

Emhilipitiya.

Plaintiff-Appellant

Vs.

P.W. Dayasena,

Beddewewa, U dakella,

Emhilipitiya

Defendant-Respondent

Before A.W.A. Salam, J.

Counsel: Manohara de Silva PC. With Arindra

Wijesurendra for the Plaintiff-Appellant and Niroshana

Igalahewa for the Defendant-Respondent.

•

Argued on : 27.1.2011

Written Submissions

rIled on:

Decided on

05.09.2011

29.11.2011

•

Abdus Sal~m J.

The plaintiff filed action seeking a declaration of title to the

subject matter of the action and for the ejectment of the

defendant. Plaintiff pleaded that his father Gunasekera

Belpamullage Don Andiris who was entitled to the subject

matter by right of prescriptive possession transferred the

same to him on deed No.381 dated 3.11.1983 attested by

Sirihewagama NP. The land which is the subject matter of

the action is said to be in extent of six and half acres

comprising of a paddy field in extent of one and half acres

and a high land of five acres. He alleged that the defendant

on 24.1.1989 entered a portion 0 f the subject matter set

out in schedule B to the plaint and continues to occupy

the same causing damages at the rate of Rs.500/== a

month. The defendant in his answer basically denied the

ownership of the plaintiff and averred that he is in

possession of an allotment of land in extent of 25 perches

as set out in the schedule to the answer.

The matter of the dispute proceeded to trial on 15 issues.

The plaintiff gave evidence and led the evidence of

Karunamunige Gunaratne from the Embilipitiya police

station and closed his case reading in evidence documents

marked PI to P20. The defendant gave evidence but

produced no documents. The learned district judge

dismissed the plaintiffs action for failure to establish the

title to the land in suit. The district judge further observed

that the plaintiff had failed to produce deed No. 12205 by

virtue of which he claimed that his father became the

owner of the land in question. This observation appears to

have been made by inadvertence as the plaintiff had

produced a certified photostat copy of the same marked as

P16. On a perusal of PI6 it appears that Coranelia Sepala

Ratnayake, Nensi Sepala Ratnayake, Backy Ratnayake,

Leela Sepala Ratnayake and Jamis Alwis Sepala

Ratnayake have transferred an undivided 5/84 shares

from and out of Ethhondagala and rights in three other

lands the description of which are illegible in PI6 to

Abeypala Weerabaddana Dissanayake and Gunasekera

Belpamullage Don Andris.

Even if PI6 is considered as having conveyed title to the

father of the plaintiff, yet he is only entitled to an

undivided % share of the subject matter. The plaintiff

claimed that he has got title for the entire land by virtue of

PI. Quite remarkably, in PI the aforesaid Andris has not

recited his title or at least to deed No.12205 as the source

by which he became entitled to the land in question.

In a revindicatio action the burden is on the plaintiff to

establish on a balance of probability the identity of the

corpus and his title. Even if PI and P16 had been taken

into consideration the learned district judge could not

have in any event given relief to the plaintiff. In the

circumstances, I see no reason to interfere with the

findings, judgment and decree entered by the learned

district judge. Accordingly, this appeal is dismissed

subject to costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal