==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA (PHC) APN. 71/12

H.C. Kegalle 2184/2005

Anura Nishantha Samarasighe

Petitioner Vs. Hon. Attorney General Attorney General’s Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

Draft

C.A. (PHC) APN No. 71/12 H.C. Kegalle 2184/2005

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

A.W.A. Salam, J

A.W.A SALAM, J. &

SUNIL RAJAPAKSHE, J.

Dr. Ranjit Fernando with Samathi Rajapaksa for the Accused-Petitioner.

Anoopa de Silva S.S.C. for the Respondents

10.05.2013.

********

Heard Counsel in support of this application.

1

Learned State Counsel has no objection to the application and

states that she would abide by whatever order court makes with

regard to the revision application.

This is a rev1s10n application made by the accused-petitioner

challenging the sentence imposed on him consequent upon his

pleading guilty to a charge of culpable homicide not amounting to

murder based on knowledge. The accused-petitioner was indicted in

2

the High Court of Kegalle for causing the death of his mother-in-law

one Somawathie. Admittedly, at the time of the incident the wife of

the accused was beyond seas and the 4 year child of the accused-

petitioner and his wife had been looked after by the deceased. The

unfortunate incident had taken place when the accused-petitioner

visited the mother -in-law to observe that the child was bleeding

from the mouth. At this movement of time there had been a heated

argument when the accused-petitioner blamed the mother-in-law for

being negligent in looking after the child. When the argument over

this matter reached its peak, the accused-petitioner had held the

deceased by her neck and attacked her on the head with the

coconut scraper. Thereafter the accused-petitioner in a state of anger

had pushed the deceased that resulted in the deceased coming in

contact with the hard object.

The subsequent conduct of the accused-petitioner immediately

after the incident obviously negates any murderous intention and it

fact it points to the fact that the accused was regretting over the

unfortunate incident. For example the accused-petitioner had

attempted to give water to the mother-in-law and at that time the

deceased was in the lap of the accused.

3

The learned High Court Judge probably by inadvertence had not

adverted to the exact manner in which the incident had taken place.

The fact that the accused had no previous conviction and that he was

in the prime of his life also have not been considered in sentencing the

accused.

Though it is not strictly relevant, our attention was drawn to

the fact that the wife of the accused namely the daughter of the

deceased is present in court to support the cause of the accused. Upon

being questioned by court, the wife of the accused stated in no

unambiguous language that she came to court see that her husband

gets relief in the revision application.

Above all, we are concerned about the fact that the learned High

Court Judge has accepted the plea of guilt for culpable homicide not

amounting to murder based on knowledge and therefore the accused

had every legitimate expectation that the maximum sentence that

could be imposed on him was ten years and no more. This clearly

shows that the learned High Court Judge has not taken into

consideration the mitigatory circumstances as she had apparently

imposed the maximum sentence on the accused. The very fact that

the accused was willing to plead from the beginning to the charge and

4

that he had made a confessionary statement shows his mental state

which point to the fact of repentance over the incident.

Taking all these matters into consideration, we are of the view

that the sentence of five years rigorous imprisonment would be

justifiable and therefore we affirm the conviction of the learned High

Court Judge subject to the variation that the term of imprisonment

imposed on him should be reduced to five years from the date of

imposition of the sentence by the learned High Court Judge namely

from 14th March 2012. The sentence of fine imposed on him and the

default sentence stands unchanged.

Subject to the above variation the conviction stands affirmed.

cl~mP. JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

Sunil Rajapkshe, J.

I agree.

::~-~Y-

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

jmds