==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 922/96 F

D.C. Colombo Case No. 3553/MHP

The Finance Company (Pvt) Ltd,

No. 68, 3rd Floor,

Ceylinco House, Janadipathi Mawatha,

Colombo Plaintiff

Vs. Warnakulasooriya Kalugamage

Francis Salis Fernando, No. 243, Halawatha Road,

Wennappuwa.

Warnakulasooriya Leo Herbert

Ranjith Fernando,

Pulungashandiya, Lansigama, Marawila.

Paththinikuttige Herbert Nonis

Mawathagama, Dankotuwa.

Defendants

And

Warnakulasooriya Leo Herbert

Ranjith Fernando,

Pulungashandiya, Lansigama, Marawila. Defendant-Appellant

-Vs-The Finance Company (Pvt) Ltd,

No. 68, 3rd Floor,

Ceylinco House, Janadipathi Mawatha,

Colombo Plaintiff-Respondent

f \

i i

Before

Counsel

Argued on

-And-1. Warnakulasooriya Kalugamage Francis Salis Fernando, No. 243, Halawatha Road,

Wennappuwa. (deceased) 2. Paththinikuttige Herbert Nonis Mawathagama, Dankotuwa.

Defendant-Respondents

A.W.A. Salam, J.

Mahinda Ralapanawe with Hashan Chandrapala for 2nd Defendant-Appellant and I.S. Silva with Vishva Meththananda for the Plaintiff-Respondent.

23.11.2010

Written submissions tendered on 24.01.2011

Decided on 31.10.2011

A W Abdus Salam,J T

his appeal arises from the judgment and decree of the learned

additional district judge of Colombo, granting relief to the

plaintiff against the 2nd defendant in a money recovery case. The

facts briefly are that the plaintiff filed action against the 1 st, 2nd and

3rd defendants seeking relief arising from the hire purchase

agreement. Admittedly the 1st defendant had entered into an

agreement with the plaintiff whereby the latter had extended the

former a facility to purchase three machines on the basis of a hire

purchase agreement. The 2nd and 3rd defendants featured in the

agreement as guarantors of the said agreement. On the 1st

defendant violating the terms and conditions of the agreement the

plaintiff dominated the same and filed action to recover the

..-t ..-t o N a ..-t ..-t tv')

.....

C <II E 00 "0

::J .....,

I a. ~ -tv') tv') Ln tv')

o ..c

E o o u U ci

machines and the momes due under the said agreement. The

agreement in question has been attested before a Notary Public.

The 2nd defendant being one of the guarantors who contested the

claim made by the plaintiff on the grounds that the said agreement

was not explained to him by the notary and that he signed certain

blank sheets instead of a written agreement. He further alleged that

no consideration passed on the agreement and that it had not been

made in conformity with the provisions of Act No 29 of 1982.

At the trial, the plaintiff led the evidence of one of its officers who

was present at the execution of the agreement and closed it's case

reading in evidence documents marked PI to P12. The 2nd

defendant neither gave evidence nor did he produce any documents.

Although the 2nd defendant maintained that he signed certain blank

papers and therefore nothing was explained to him, he did not opt to

give evidence or call witnesses to establish his position. The learned

additional district judge at the conclusion of the trial rejecting the

position taken up by the 2nd defendant held interalia that he is

liable to pay the plaintiff the sum of money claimed in the plaint.

This appeal has been preferred against the said judgment.

On a perusal of the evidence adduced at the trial, it appears that the

finding of the learned add!. district judge relating to the alleged

failure on the part of the plaintiff to explain the agreement cannot be

faulted as the 2nd defendant has not been able to discredit the

witness who testified on behalf of the plaintiff. In addition the trial

judge is also entitled to conclude in the way he decided the matter

.-t .-t o N o .-t .-t m

.... c OJ E tIO "0

::J

I a. 2 -m m L/') m

o .c

E ..Q o u U ci

by reason of the failure on the part of the 2nd and 3rd defendants to

adduce any evidence on the alleged grounds to avoid the contract.

The question relating to want of consideration also has not been

substantiated by the 2nd defendant.

Even though the 2nd defendant claimed that the plaintiff is not

entitled to proceed against him by reason of his inaction to execute

the judgment entered exparte against the defendant no such defence

had been pleaded in the answer nor have they been raised by way of

issues at the trial. In the circumstances, the failure on the part of

the plaintiff to make any claim in the insolvency proceedings in

respect of the 1 st defendant and the alleged inaction to enforce the

judgment against the 1st defendant cannot be considered as valid

grounds to set aside the impugned judgment.

As regards the question relating to want of consideration it is to be

observed that the 1 st defendant has unequivocally admitted having

received the consideration and also acknowledged that he had

defaulted to honour the terms and conditions of the hire purchase

agreement. Taking all these matters into consideration, it cannot

possibly be accepted that the defence put forward by the 2nd

defendant had been established. In the circumstances, the findings

of the learned additional district judge against the 2nd defendant

appear to arise on the evidence led by the plaintiff and quite

consistent with the law applicable. In the result, I am not inclined to

take the view that the learned addl. district judge has erred in his

judgment when he came to the conclusion favourable to the plaintiff.

..... c: Q) E tlO "0 :J -.

:::c a.. ~ -m m LJ") m

o ..c

E ..Q o u U ci

\D 0'\ -N N 0'\ <i. U

• For reasons stated above, I am compelled to affirm the judgment of

the learned addl. district judge entered against the 2nd defendant

, and dismiss this appeal.

~ Plaintiff respondent is entitled to recover costs of this appeal.

4~cp.&· Judge of the Court of Appeal

NTj-

rl rl o N c:i rl rl ('/")

::r: 0.. ~ -('/") ('/") LI'I ('/")

o ..0

E ..Q o u u o

1.0 0\ -N N 0\ <i. u