==== BLOCKS ==== 

1 I I J

.1 , I I I !

I , 'i 1 £ ! I

1 J i I , !

~ I 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

1. Kehelmala Ralalage Asanka Premakumara

2. Kehelmala Ralalage Gayan Wickremasinghe

3. Kehelmala Ralalage Sumith Priyadharshana

Alias Bandara.

All of Oththapitiya, Nelumdeniya.

ACCUSED-APPELLANTS

C.A 10/2013

H.C. Kegalle 2953/2010

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

RESPONDENT

Amila Palliyage for the Accused-Appellant

Sarath Jayamanne A.S.G. for the Respondent

02.06.2014

1

1

j

1 1 I i I i l

~ I I , i i 1

f I I I I I ,

I I

1 j I

j I I 1 \ I 1 j

2

DECIDED ON: 25.06.2014

GOONERATNE J.

The three Accused-Appellants were indicted in the High Court of

Kegalle on two counts. The 1st count was on a charge of murder of one

Senarath Arachchilage Nonahamy. The other count (2) was an attempted

murder charge which was withdrawn by the prosecution subsequently. All

three Accused-Appellants were convicted and found guilty of culpable

homicide not amounting to murder (Section 297) and sentenced to six years

rigorous imprisonment on 26.2.2013. At the hearing of this appeal learned

Addl. Solicitor General who appeared for the Respondent indicated to court

that he would agree for a further reduction of sentence to a lesser offence and

sentence since the deceased had intervened to stop an altercation between

the Accused party and the injured party, and also having regard to the nature

of injuries inflicted on the deceased.

Prosecution version is that there were four incidents between the

Accused party and others, which commenced with an exchange of words

3

between them. In the course of the commotion/altercation the deceased

person had come in between to stop the fight and had received a blow which

had been aimed and dealt at witness No. 1 and she fell. Medical evidence

reveal three injuries caused by a blunt weapon, which injuries are described as

abrasions/or bruises. The Doctor who gave evidence suggest that the three

injuries could have resulted from just one blow or may be by several other

blows. On an internal examination of the body the Doctor testifies that three

arteries were blocked (pg. 87). The Doctor further testifies that the deceased

who had a heart condition as stated above, with the injuries caused to her as

above would have resulted in a sudden heart attack and caused her death.

The items of evidence that surfaced at the trial does not indicate any

murderous intention of the Accused party, nor can this court arrive at a

conclusion that the act done was done so with the knowledge that it is likely to

cause death or to cause such bodily injury likely to cause death. The blow given

by the Accused was in fact dealt at witness No.1 but had struck the deceased

causing injuries.

In the above circumstances in the absence of a murderous intention

and the required knowledge to cause death, the act of assault on the deceased

is a case of voluntarily causing hurt. Therefore this court set aside the

• •

4

conviction and sentence and impose a conviction of voluntarily causing hurt

and sentence the all three Accused for one year Rigorous Imprisonment and a

fine of Rs. 1000/-. In default of payment of fine. 6 months R.I. is also imposed.

Subject to above the appeal is dismissed. Sentence of imprisonment to be

implemented from the date of judgment delivered by this court.

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

f!I