==== BLOCKS ==== 

,

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REP

OF SRI LANKA

C.A. 32311997(F) D.C. Mt.Lavinia 270/94 L

Alvitigalage Padmasiri No. 202, High Level Road Pannipitiya.

PLAINTIFF

Vs.

K. L. Anulawathie No. 203 (215) High Level Road Pannipitiya.

DEFENDANT

AND NOW BETWEEN

Alvitigalage Padmasiri No. 202, High Level Road Pannipitiya.

PLAINTIFF APPELLANT

Vs.

K. L. Anulawathie No. 203 (215) High Level Road Pannipitiya.

DEFENDANT -RESPONDENT

I

I i I I I

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERA TNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J.

w. Dayaratne P.C with R. Jayawardene For the Plaintiff-Appellant

Rohan Sahabandu for the Defendant-Respondent

26.08.2011

06.10.2011

2

This was an action filed in the District Court of Mt. Lavinia for

a declaration of title and ejectment of the Defendant from the land described

in the 2nd schedule of the plaint. 5 admissions were recorded and Plaintiff

had raised 6 issues. Defendant had suggested issue Nos. 7 & 8 and moved

court to have them tried as preliminary issues. Both parties tendered written

submissions in the original court and the learned District Judge having

answered the preliminary issues in favour of the Defendant dismissed

Plaintiff s action by his judgment of 25 .4.1997.

Issue Nos. 7 & 8 reads thus.

3

7. Has the Plaintiff disclosed a cause of action in the plaint as the land in dispute as

described in the 2nd schedule to the plaint is an undivided land and as in paragraph

5 of the plaint?

8. Is the plaint liable to be dismissed in limine in view of admission Nos. 3, 4 & 5?

The learned President's Counsel for the Appellant inter alia

submitted to this court that the learned District Judge erred in law and fact,

as such failed to appreciate that though the 2nd schedule to the plaint refer to

an undivided share the deed marked P2 refer to a divided portion which

could be identified as a specific and a divided portion which land could be

clearly identified without any difficulty. He also maintains that the plaint

disclose a cause of action and dismissal of the action is a gross error on the

part of the learned District Judge. Learned counsel for Respondent Mr.

Rohan Sahabandu supported the judgment of the learned District Judge and

emphasized the fact that plaint does not disclose a cause of action i.e non

compliance with the mandatory provisions of Section 41 of the Civil

Procedure Code. Section 41 enacts that land sued for to be described by

metes and bounds or sketch plan. He also submitted to court that even if the

land in question is an undivided portion and at the stage of execution of writ

4

fiscal cannot execute the writ, where the land is undivided. He drew the

attention of this court to the following decided cases to stress his point of

VIew.

Gunasekera Vs. Punchimenike (2002 (2) S.L.R 43)

Plaint was filed seeking a declaration of title to an undivided share of a land. It

was pleaded that the defendant-appellant had encroached upon a portion. The

encroached portion was not described with reference to physical metes and

bounds or by reference to any map of sketch. The matter was fixed for ex-parte

trial; after ex-parte trial application was made to issue a commission to survey the

land and identify same. The ex-parte trial did not end up in a judgment. After the

return of the commissioner, the plaint was amended, a fresh ex-parte trial was

thereafter held. After the decree was served, the defendant-appellant sought to

purge default, which was refused.

Held that,

(l) Court was obliged initially to have rejected the original plaint since it did not

describe the portion encroached upon section 46 (2) (a) read together with section

41 of the Civil Procedure Code.

David V s. Gnanawathie (2000 (2) S.L.R. 352)

The Court after holding that the dominant tenement and the servient

tenement are lands owned by the State, granted the reliefs prayed for by the

plaintiff-respondent. On the appeal it was held that, when the plaintiff claimed

that he has exercised by prescriptive user a right of way over a defined route, the

obligation of the plaintiff to comply with section 41, of the Civil Procedure Code

is paramount and imperative, Strict compliance with section 41 of the Civil

Procedure Code is necessary as the Fiscal would be impeded in the execution of

the decree/judgment if the servient tenement is not described with precision and

definiteness.

5

I am inclined to agree with the learned counsel for the

Respondent. Compliance with Section 41 of the Code is mandatory. Even if

a co-owner of undivided share of land could sue a trespasser to have his title

to the undivided share declared and for ejectment of the trespasser from the

entire land, unless the plaint identifies the property in dispute clearly and in

a specific manner writ cannot be executed.

A party who claims prescriptive title to a particular allotment of

land is obliged to clearly describe it either by boundaries or with reference to

metes and bounds. In the case in hand party seeks a declaration of title and

eviction of the Defendant. District Court should have in this case acted in

terms of Section 46(2) of the Civil Procedure Code and returned the plaint

for amendment. However it was not done. Pleadings were complete and the

case had been fixed for trial. Issues were raised and parties moved court to

try a very basic issue. As observed by Wigneswaran J. in Gunasekera Vs.

Punchimenike Defendants could very well kept quiet in the case with the

type of plaint filed because writ could not have been executed in terms of a

decree entered on the basis of the plaint. What exact portion was occupied?

Fiscal would definitely be impeded in the execution of the decree due to

Vagueness of boundaries and exact description.

6

In Mohideen Vs. Gnanapragasam 14 N.L.R 33, held it is not

competent for a Judge to reject plaint after having once accepted it and

ordered summons, if the summons have been duly served; he should leave it

to the Defendant to raise any question as to it's legal sufficiency to support

the intended action.

Views have been expressed in the above decided case both

ways. i.e plaint once accepted cannot be rejected. Section 46 of the Code

permits to reject plaint only before it is allowed to be filed. The other view is

that if the plaint has been improperly filed court may reject at any time or

stage.

I am convinced that parties could not have proceeded to trial on

the plaint filed of record. Court on it's own motion could have rejected the

plaint at the earliest available opportunity. If that was the case Plaintiff

would have been able to present a fresh plaint without difficulty or even at

an earlier stage (may be prior to issue of summons) it could have been

rejected if the Defendant by way of motion objected to the plaint. Section

46(2) of the Civil Procedure 'Code is designed to cure such defects by giving

an opportunity to remedy the situation and permit filing of a fresh

, I

t f r 1 !

i I I! I I i' f i I I I! ! I I I I ! I I I I I

7

Plaint. In the case in hand it has passed all initial stages of the suit. The case

had been fixed for trial and parties thought it fit to suggest issues, and raised

preliminary issues.

It appears to me that the stage to return the plaint for

amendment and rejection of plaint which gives rise to present a fresh plaint

has long passed and the original court has lost control to permit Plaintiff to

rectify a material defect, i.e. non compliance with Section 41 of the Civil

Procedure Code. In all the above circumstances though the learned District

Judge's Judgment on certain aspect of the case does not connect the

preliminary issue, his ultimate decision to dismiss the action need not be

altered or reviewed by this court. As such judgment of the original court is

affirmed. Appeal dismissed without costs.

QYG,,~-12~

JUDGE OF THECOURT<OF APPEAL