==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A. 598/98 (F) D.C. Colombo Case No. 3465/Spl

Paddy Marketing Board No: 3A, Wihara Mawatha, Meethotamulla, Wellampitiya.

Appellant Vs. L.De.A. Dissanayake Mahawatte Road, Mirihana, Nugegoda.

Respondent

C.A. 598/98IF) D.C. Colombo Case No. 3465/Spl

Before K. T. Chitrasiri, J.

Counsel Vicum de Abrew, D.S.G. for the Defendant-Appellant.

Plaintiff-Respondent is absent and unrepresented.

Argued &

Decided on 02.12.2013

K. T. Chitrasiri, J.

Plaintiff-Respondent has not responded to the notices sent on

several occasions under registered cover, by the Registrar of this Court.

The defendant-appellant also was directed to find out the whereabouts of

the respondent. Despite all those attempts, the respondent has failed to

come before this Court. Therefore, the matter is taken up for argument m

his absence. Accordingly, learned D.S.G. was heard in support of this

appeal.

1

! I I I

Learned D.S.G. submitted that it is wrong to have answered

the issue No. 31 affirmatively in view of Section 23 of the Interpretation

Ordinance. Issue 31 is as follows:-

q61c:nC)o!D) 8505 C)CiOJD, qD@o(32 CiG)J Ql@ O~O) D~Ci~ C)C

oz®61@tl)Oz C)S~ Q)C)) SO~Ci~ o!D®, ~D)c) ~CiO~D ~D) qD@o(32

(Vide proceedings at page 90 of the appeal brief)

Accordingly, he argued that the learned District Judge had no jurisdiction to

hear and determine this action in terms of the aforesaid Section 23.

Learned District Judge by his judgment dated 30.07.1998 decided the

case in favour of the plaintiff having answered the issue No. 31 affirmatively.

Therefore, a question of law has arisen to determine whether the

learned district judge had the jurisdiction to hear and determine this

action of the plaintiff-respondent in view of Section 23 of the Interpretation

Ordinance. Section 23 of the Interpretation Ordinance reads thus:

23. Subject to the provIszons of section 24, where a court of original civil jurisdiction is empowered 0 by any enactment, whether passed or made before or after the commencement of this Ordinance, to declare a right or status, such enactment shall not be construed to empower such court to entertain or to enter decree or make any order in any action for a declaration of a right or status upon any ground whatsoever, arising out of or in respect of or in derogation of

2

I

any order, decision, determination, direction or finding which any person, authority or tribunal is empowered to make or issue under any written law:

(Emphasis added)

In view of the aforesaid section 23, a court exercising original civil

jurisdiction is not empowered to entertain or to enter decree or make

any order in any action for a declaration of a right or status upon any

ground whatsoever. This position has been upheld in many cases

including that of:

Perera v People's Bank [78 NLR 231];

Ceylon State Mortgage Bank v Ranasinghe [CA 19802 SLR pg. 11];

Kularatne v Gunapala Perera [CALA 546/2002 CA Mts. 24.03.2006]

Admittedly, the case at hand had been filed to obtain a declaration

declaring that the defendant-appellant IS not entitled to impose a

surcharge of Rs.289,683.63 on the plaintiff-respondent. The said relief prayed

for in the plaint dated 20th February 1992 is quoted herein below for easy

reference and it reads thus:

Oz®~@tIlOz®(5.)o!D E) q®(9E) ®®tJc:l(9c oz.289683.63 tIl ~<(9cl qCtIlO

(5.)z~®C) ~d>®c qc5d>ccl ®~f ~®tIl®cl o!i)zd>Q)~C) ~o!D~ 9tIl1(lJccl

3

!I !II

f ,! f l i I I II

1

j i I

1 I !

1

On the face of the aforesaid relief, it is clear that the plaintiff

has sought to have a declaration as to a right or status as mentioned in

Section 23 of the Interpretation Ordinance. As referred to above in this

judgment, the said section 23 of the Interpretation Ordinance prevents a

person seeking for a declaration of a right or status, to file action against a

person, authority or tribunal which empowers to make any order

decision determination direction or finding under any written law.

Upon considering the aforesaid provision III law and the authorities

referred to above, it is clear that the learned district judge should not

have entertained this action since the plaintiff has prayed for a declaration as

to a status. Therefore, it is seen that he has misdirected himself in answering

issue No.31 affirmatively. Indeed, he should have considered the issue 31 as a

preliminary issue of Law and decided the case at an early stage.

In the circumstances, it is my view that the learned district Judge

had no jurisdiction to allow the plaintiff-respondent to have and maintain

this action and accordingly he should have dismissed this action. Hence, it is

wrong to have decided the case in favour of the plaintiff-respondent. For the

aforesaid reasons the judgment dated 30.07.1998 is set aside.

In the petition of appeal, the appellant has also prayed that it be

granted the relief prayed for in the answer filed in the district court.

The said relief is to recover Rs.289,683.63 from the plaintiff with the interests

accrued thereto. In evidence it was admitted by a witness for the plaintiff

4

i I l

1 J i I

J ( 1

namely Percy De Silva Ranasinghe that part of the said claim has already been

recovered from the salary paid to the plaintiff. (vide proceedings at page 367 of

the appeal brief) Therefore, it is wrong to claim such an amount in the answer

without deducting the money that the defendant had already recovered from

the salary of the plaintiff.

Moreover, it is in evidence that the manner in which the aforesaid

Rs.289,683.63 was calculated had been on a random check of the stocks in the

stores of the defendant Paddy Marketing Board. This particular evidence had

been given in answer to the questions posed by the Court. (vide proceedings at

page 176 of the appeal brief). Therefore, the basis upon which the said

Rs.289,683.63 was calculated is not acceptable and is not accurate as well.

Therefore, I am not inclined to grant the relief namely to recover

Rs.289,683.63 from the plaintiff that has been prayed for in the answer filed

in the district court though it is one of the reliefs prayed for in the petition of

appeal.

For the aforesaid reasons, this appeal is partly allowed. No costs.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

AKN

5 Ii