==== BLOCKS ==== 

. •.

·-·, ,f' 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A 2107/04 (Writ)

COUNSEL;

ARGUROON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J.

Ramani Siriwardhane No. 2/H/18 J ayawadanagama, Battararnulla.

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. National Housing Development Authority 30/4, Sir Chittampalam A.Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 2

And 3 others

RESPONDENTS

Manohara de Silva P .C., with Nimal Hippola for the Petitioner C.S. Nammuni S.C., for 1st & 2"d Respondents 3 rd Respondent absent and unrepresented

01.11.2012

31.01.2013

i

2

GOONERA TNE J.

This is an application for writs of certiorari and mandamus by

the Petitioner Ramani Siriwardena against the decision of the 1st Respondent

namely the National Housing Development Authority to effect a transfer of

the property in dispute in favour of the 3 rd Respondent, regarding premises

No. 2/H/18, Jayawadanagama, Battaramulla. Perusal of the several journal

entries in the docket I find that on 14.10.2005, State Counsel for 1st & 2nd

Respondents informed court that no objection would be filed on their behalf.

On a subsequent date counsel for 4th Respondent had informed court that no

objection would be filed on behalf of the 4th Respondent (vide J.E of

17.5.2006). The 3rd Respondent having filed objection was absent and

unrepresented on the date of hearing. At the hearing State Counsel assisted

court with submissions but did not seriously resist the powers of this court to

review the decision of the 1st & 2nd Respondent in the context of this case.

The learned President's Counsel initially drew the attention of

this court to document P3 a letter addressed to R.O.W. Jayasooriya by D G

M (Finance) for Chairman of the 1st Respondent authority. The said

document refer to an agreement of sale between the said Jayasuriya and the

1st Respondent Authority. The title referred to in document P3, is re-

recovery of instalments, Housing Scheme. P3 reflects that the sale price is

. ' '

3

Rs. 465,000/= and the amount paid as Rs. 200,000/- balance as Rs.

265,000/-. Further details of interests instalments are also shown in P3.

Family details of Petitioner would also be relevant.

The 4th Respondent was the Petitioner's husband (now

divorced). 3rd Respondent is the 4th Respondent's only sister. The Petitioner

married the 4th Respondent (P1) and was living in the premises described

above which is the premises in dispute with the 3rd Respondent and the

parents of the 3rd & 4th Respondents.

The Petitioner's father-in-law was in occupation of the premises

from 1983 having entered into a sales agreement mentioned above (P3 &

P5a). It is the position of the Petitioner that up to 1986 the Petitioner's

father-in-law R.O.W Jayasuriya paid the instalments due with interest to

cover a period of 30 years. After 1986 the 4th Respondent had paid the

instalments. The said R.O.W. Jayasuriya died on 3.7.1997. The 3rct

Respondent was not residing in the property in dispute as averred in

paragraphs 10, 11 & 13 of the Petition. The Petitioner maintains that she was

occupying the premises in dispute with her daughter although her husband

(4th Respondent) divorced her (P5) and decree entered on 21.4.1988. It is her

position that she continues to occupy the premises. The Petitioner also state

that thf' in::;talments, payments due to the above premises had been paid by

r

...

i

' I 4

t

\, ' her (even after the matrimonial proceedings) to the 1st Respondent

Authority. Some documents marked P6A, P6B, P6C & P6D are annexed to

t

the Petition to support the payments of electricity, instalment payment to 1st

Respondent, rates etc. by the Petitioner.

Perusal of the objection of the 3rd Respondent (though absent

and unrepresented at the hearing), I find that most of the family matters

pleaded by the Petitioner are not disputed. Nor has document P3 & P3a

being denied. However the instalment payment on the premises in dispute

are denied, and it is emphasized that instalment payments were in arrears. I

have also considered the averments contained in paragraph 19 of the 3rd

Respondent's objections, where various positions are taken to resist the

Petitioner's application for writs of certiorari and mandamus.

The Petitioner states that in the divorce action, as a settlement

with the 4th Respondent, the 4th Respondent agreed to grant his share of the

house in dispute (vide P5). By deed P7 which is a deed renouncing 4

1h

Respondent's interest in the property in dispute and in favour of the

Petitioner, (deed No. 1683 of 16.12.1998) are documents relied upon by the

n.:uL!vw.-1 to establish her case. I also find some official documents and

reference made to discussions the Petitioner had with the 1st & 2nd

Respondents. I would list the material in the following manner.

5

(a) 2"d Respondent informing the Petitioner that the 4th Respondent (ex husband) had

transferred his interest to the 3rd Respondent (sister). 4th Respondent had

executed an affidavit by document 8A, petitioner through her lawyer intimates

her position.

(b) Memorandum of 2"d Respondent. P9 reference to an agreement of sale between

1st Respondent and 3rd Respondent. Agreement based on an affidavit sent by 4th

Respondent.

(c) Affidavit of 4th Respondent of 17.9.2000 to Chairman of the 1st Respondent

(PlO). This document indicates 4th Respondent renounced his interest (1/2 share)

in favour of Petitioner.

(d) Letter of23.2.2011 by 4th Respondent to Chairman 1st Respondent stating that 4th

Respondent had not given any rights to the 3rd Respondent. 4th Respondent

reiterates the issuance of P 1 0 by P 11.

(e) Minutes of a meeting (P 12) held in view of the position stated in 'c' & 'd' above

at the Ministry of Urban Development Housing & Construction where both 3rd

Respondent and Petitioner was present. Parties had agreed between them that

Petitioner pay a sum of Rs. 1700,000/- to the 3rd Respondent being the amount

paid by her to the authority. Payment to be made within 4 months. On

completion of payment as aforesaid the Respondent to give an affidavit to the

authority concerned declaring her intention to give the property to Petitioner.

Both have signed P12. Thereafter 1st Respondent to transfer the property to

Petitioner

(f) Another memorandum (P13) incorporate the following as pleaded by Petitioner.

1 That as per the agreement for sale entered into between the 1st Respondent

Authority and the 3rd Respondent on 05.08.1999 action has been taken to

issue the Deed in favour ofthe 3rd Respondent.

2 That the Petitioner has been unable to prove that the affidavit on which the

3rd Respondent obtained rights over the share3 of Mr. Sherard Egon

Weeraratne Jayasuriya is false.

3 That on 08.01.2001 the Petitioner agreed in view of the above the issuance

of the deed to the 3rd Respondent is lawful.

ll

r

fli

...

6

4 That the Petitioner agreed to pay Rs. 1,700,000/- as the value ofthe house

to the 3 rd Respondent.

5 That the 3rd Respondent is to transfer the house to the Petitioner after

receiving the payment of the said Rs. 1,700,000/-.

It is the position of the Petitioner that the assertions made above (1 - 5

of F) had been made mala fide, without considering the material placed

before the 1st Respondent Authority by the Petitioner.

The Petitioner urge that (a) By P10 & P11, 4th Respondent

informed the authorities that his Y2 share was given to the Petitioner and not

the 3 rd Respondent. (b) The Petitioner also stress that the Petitioner never

agreed to renounce her rights in favour of the 3 rd Respondent though she

agreed to pay Rs. 1,700,000/- to the 3rd Respondent.

'a' & 'b' above are two matters emphasized and urged by the

Petitioner. However before I deal with same I would refer to the position of

mala fides pleaded by the Petitioner. I cannot find a specific reference to a

Respondent, alleging mala fides. It is more or less a general statement and

thi_ ~·ourt car.--Jt conc;idcr such a plea against any particular Respondent. I

observe that if mala fide is alleged against the repository of a power, it must

be expressly pleaded and particularized. 1994 (2) SLR 182.

\I

"

7

This court has to arrive at a decision in the absence of material

contesting or admitting the averments contained in the petition of the

Petitioner by the 1st & 2nct Respondents and the 4th Respondent. The 3rct & 4th

Respondents would in one sense be the successors to the rights in the

premises in dispute. The 4th Respondent according to the material furnished

renounced his rights in favour of his former wife the Petitioner to this

application. The material placed before this court indicate that the original

intended transferee, 3rct & 4th Respondent's father (to the premises) had

deposited a substantial amount of money on the sales agreement, and that

Petitioner and the 4th Respondent also had contributed to same.

I have also (though the 3 rd Respondent was absent and

unrepresented) noted the following in paragraph 21 of the affidavit tendered

on behalf of the 3rd Respondent. It reads thus:

(a) As the instalments had fallen into arrears from or about 1996 October, and the

original agreement was cancelled, the 3 rct Respondent met the 1st Respondent on

or about the year 1999 and made representations to the 1st Respondent as a result

of which a fresh agreement was entered into on payment of an initial payment of a

sum of Rs. 128,486/73 and giving an undertaking to pay the balance sum of Rs.

381,280112 in instalments. A copy of this agreement has been annexed by the

Petitioner marked P 15.

(b) The 3 rd Respondent thereafter completed the said payments and the 1st

Respondent duly transferred the said premises to the 3rd Respondent.

I

\

t

f

8

(c) The late Richard Oliver Weeraratne Jayasooriya did not own the said premises at

the time of his death, as such his heirs could not have inherited the said property

on his death.

(d) The 1st Respondent has transferred the said premises to the 3 rd Respondent for a

valuable consideration.

(e) The 3rd Respondent did not give up residence at the said premises but was

compelled to seek temporary residence else where due to the quarrels and

harassments by the Petitioner.

The position of the Petitioner is that P12 which indicates that

both the Petitioner and 3rd Respondents were present in the office of the 1st

Respondent. The Petitioner signed P 12 which was purported to be a

settlement between the Petitioner and 3rd Respondent, and the Petitioner

signed P 12 as she was under a threat of being evicted from the premises in

dispute and Petitioner was compelled to agree to the settlement recorded

therein. The valuation of Y2 share of the premises at Rs. 1, 700,000/- was an

over valuation which the Petitioner was called upon to pay in the event a

deed was to be executed in favour of the Petitioner. However the settlement

had not materialized. In the petition and written submissions it is pleaded

that she ~arne to know that the 3rd Respondent has filed action in the District

Court (case No. 19922/C) for a declaration of title and eviction of the

Petitioner from the premises in dispute (Pl5). By deed No. 571 of 13.7.2001

•

9

the premises in dispute transferred to the 3 rct Respondent. The District Court

case is pending as intimated by learned President's Counsel for Petitioner.

The grounds urged by the Petitioner seeking the writs prayed

for are:

(a) Decision to sell and transfer the property in dispute to the 3rd Respondent is

unlawful, arbitrary and unreasonable.

(b) A valid agreement to sell entered between the 1st Respondent authority and the

late R.O.W. Jayasuriya has never been cancelled.

(c) 1st Respondent aware that by 8.3.2000 the instalement paid at least from 1996 by

the Petitioner and prior to that by 4th Respondent (P8).

(d) 4th Respondent by a deed of renunciation has renounced his right, to the property

in favour of the Petitioner.

(e) Petitioner continues to occupy the property and is the possession

The National Housing Development Authority Act was enacted to

establish an authority and to undertake development projects pertaining to

housing and redevelopment projects. The Act contemplates of a variety of

functions as contained in Section 5 of the Act. In one sense it is somewhat of

social development and or a welfare statute to assist and help the

community, on matters pertaining to housing. The authority has the right to

alienate land, flats, houses or other living accommodation.

Section 8(1) ofthe Act reads thus:

(1) The Authority may, with the approval ofthe Minister, dispose by way of sale, lease,

r,~p+ nr •, ''t purchase any land, flat, house or other living accommodation held by the

Authority, subject to such terms and conditions as may be determined by the Minister and

..

10

specified in the instrument of disposition, and in particular, but without prejudice to the

generality of the foregoing provisions of this section, a condition to the effect that the

disposition effected by such instrument may be cancelled or determined in the event of a

failure to comply with any other condition specified in such instrument or in the event of

any money due to the Authority under such instrument remaining unpaid for any such

period as may be specified therein.

The power of cancellation of instrument is contemplated under

Section 11 of the Act. Section 11 reads thus:

Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law to the contrary, no action shall lie

against the Authority or any officer or servant of such Authority in respect of the

cancellation or determination of an instrument of alienation under the provisions of

section 8.

The issuance of a prerogative writ, no doubt is a discretionary

remedy of court. It is the discretion of court either to allow or refuse the

granting of a prerogative writ. Though delay and certain other matters to

resist the application had been taken up by the 3 rd Respondent in the

pleadings etc. the 3rd Respondent was absent and unrepresented on the date

of hearing. This court, though the 3rd Respondent was absent and

unrepresented has given serious consideration to all those points urged by

the 3rd Respondent. Nevertheless the manner in which the 1st & 2nd

Respondent conducted inquiries appears to be flawed and the subsequent

decision to execute a transfer deed in favour of 3rd Respondent is a nullity, in

11

view of the grounds urged by the Petitioner at (a) to (e) of pg. 9 of this

judgment. The 4th Respondent and the 3rd Respondent undoubtedly are the

only heirs of the late R.O. W. Jayasuriya who entered into a sales agreement

and made part payment with the 1st Respondent authority. The 1st

Respondent authority need to have a proper mqmry and arrive at a

reasonable decision though the power of executing a transfer deed is vested

with the 1st Respondent authority. The decision taken by the 1st Respondent

to transfer the property in dispute is arbitrary and unreasonable, more

particularly when the 4th Respondent had renounced his rights in the

premises in favour of the Petitioner. Further one cannot ignore the part

payment made to the 1st Respondent authority by the late R.P. W. Jayasuriya,

4th Respondent and the Petitioner.

I have fortified my views, having perused the following

authorities.

Wade on Administrative Law - 1oth Ed - Chapter 16 titled Decisions,

Determinations & Acts pg. 517

At pg. 516 ...

As the Law has developed, quashing and prohibiting orders have become general

remedies which may be granted in respect of any decisive exercise of discretion by an

authority having public functions, whether individual or collective. The matter in

question may be an act rather than a legal decision or determination, such as the grant or

refusal of a licence .... "

i

' ' .. 12

" ....... in the same way a quashing order was granted to quash a medical certificate stating

that a body was an imbecile and incapable of benefiting from attendance at school, when

one of the signatory doctors had not himself seen the boy and the question was in any

case, for determination by the Board of Education under the Act.. .. "

In Leelawathie and Another Vs. The Commissioner ofNational

Housing and Others- The Appellate Law Recorder 2005(1) pg. 14. I would

refer to certain excerpts of the judgment of Justice K. Sripavan at pg 17 &

18 ...

No person can incur loss of property by judicial or quash -judicial proceedings unless

and until he has had a fair opportunity of answering the complaint made against him.

Accordingly, objectors at public inquiries must be given a fair opportunity to meet

adverse evidence, even though the statutory provisions do not cover the case expressly.

(Vide Errington v. Minister of Health 1935 I.K.B 249) The House of Lords in Fairmount

Investments v. Secretary of State for the Environment 1976 I.W.L.R 1255 held that it was

a breach of natural justice for an inspector to make recommendations on the strength of

considerations which the objector had not known, were in the inspector's mind and had

no chance to deal with.

As observed by Sharvananda, J. (as he then was) in the case ofSirisena and Others v.

Kobbekaduwa, Minister of Agriculture and Lands 80. N.L.R 182 "there are no degrees of

nullity, If an act is a nullity, it is automatically null and void and there is no need for an

order of the court to set it aside though it is sometimes convenient or prudent to have the

court declare it to be so."

"You cannot put something on nothing and expect it to stay there, it will collapse" -

Lord Denning in Mcfoy v. United Africa Company Limited 1961 3. All. E.R. 1169 at

1172.

t

' ' 13

The decision making process of the 1st Respondent authority in

the case in hand is flawed. The 1st Respondent has failed to act fairly and

reasonably in the interest of justice.

In all the above circumstances I set aside all proceedings had as

held before the 1st Respondent authority and hold that the decision to

execute a transfer deed in favour of the 3 rct Respondent by the 1st Respondent

authority is a nullity. I also allow in part a Writ of Mandamus as in sub

paragraph 'c' of the prayer to the petition, only as regards the holding of an

inquiry as prayed for therein.

Subject to above, application allowed without costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL