==== BLOCKS ==== 

"1

-IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A(PHC) APN 17/2006 H.C. A vissawella Case No: 55/04 M.C. A vissawella Case No: 65720

In the matter of an application for revision under Article 138 of the Constitution.

Officer-in -Charge, Police Station, Ehaliyagoda.

Complainant

Vs.

1. Jayantha Wickremasinghe Gunasekara alias Kananke Dhammadinna, No. 11, Samaranayake Mawatha, Kolonnawa, Wellampitiya.

2. Prasanna Udaya Tamanegama, No. 167,

Colombo Road, Rathnapura.

1st Party

1. Jayatissa Wickremasinghe Gunasekara, Teckland Estate,

Meegasthenna,

Parakaduwa.

2. Ranjani Wickremasinghe Gunasekara, Alias Ramani Pathirana, Meegasthenna,

Parakaduwa.

3. Tissa Nanayakkara, Superintendent, Teckland Estate,

I

\

~

l

Vs.

AND NOW BETWEEN

1. Jayatissa Wickremasinghe Gunasekara, Teckland Estate,

Meegasthenna, Parakaduwa.

2 nd Party _1st Respondent-Petitioner

1. Jayantha Wickremasinghe Gunasekara alias Kananke Dhammadinna, No. 11, Samaranayake Mawatha, Kolonnawa, Wellampitiya.

2. Prasanna Udaya Tamanegama, No. 167, Colombo Road, Rathnapura.

1 st Party - Respondents

3. Ranjani Wickremasinghe Gunasekara, Alias Ramani Pathirana,

Meegasthenna,

Parakaduwa.

4. Tissa Nanayakkara, Superintendent, Teckland Estate,

Parakaduwa.

2 nd Party - Respondents

AND NOW BETWEEN

1. Jayantha Wickremasinghe Gunasekara alias Kananke Dhammadinna, No. 11, Samaranayake Mawatha, Kolonnawa, Wellampitiya.

1 st Party-Responde nt-Petitioner

Vs.

1. Jayatissa Wickremasinghe Gunasekara, Teckland Estate,

Meegasthenna,

Parakaduwa.

2 nd Party-l st Respondent-Petitioner - Respondent

2. Prasanna Udaya Tamanegama, No. 167, Colombo Road, Rathnapura.

1 st Party-Responde nt-Respondent

3. Ranjani Wickremasinghe Gunasekara, Alias Ramani Pathirana,

Meegasthenna,

Parakaduwa.

2 nd Party-Respondent-Respondent

4. Tissa Nanayakkara, Superintendent, Teckland Estate,

Parakaduwa.

2nd Party-Responde nt-Respondent

Before: Sisira de Abrew, J. A. W .A. Salam, J. & D.S.C. Lecamwasam, J.

Counsel W. Dayaratne P.C., with R. Jayawardane, D.N.Dayratne and Nadeeka K. Arachchi for the 1st Party-Respondent-Petitioner and Rohan Sahabandu for the 1st Party-Respondent.

Argued on 25.02.2011, 03.03.2011 and 04.03.2011

Written submissions tendered on 16.05.2011

Decided on 30.09.2011

A.W. Abdus Salam, J. T

his is an application to reVIse the judgment of the

Provincial High Court entered in the exercise of it's

revisionary· jurisdiction under Article 154 P (3) (b) of the

Constitution. By the impugned judgment, the Learned High

Court Judge set aside the determination made in terms of

section 68 (3) of the Primary Court Procedure Act (PCPA) and

ordered the unsuccessful party in the Magistrate's Court to be

restored to possession of the subject matter, pending the

determination of an appeal preferred to this court. (Emphasis

is mine)

The important events leading up to the present reVISIon

application began with the filing of an information in the

Magistrate's Court, under section 66 (a) (i) of PCPA. The

dispute was over the right of possession of a land between two

brothers, viz. Jayantha Wickramasingha Gunasesekara I (1 st

party-respondent-petitioner) and Jayathissa Wickramasingha

,,;-

Gunasesekara2 (2nd party-l st respondent-petitioner-

respondent). The involvement of the other parties in the

dispute is not dealt in this judgment, as they had merely

acted as the agents of the two main rival disputants.

The learned Magistrate, in making his determination, held

inter alia that the petitioner had forcibly been dispossessed of

the subject matter by respondent, within a period of two

months before the filing of information and accordingly

directed that he (the party dispossessed) be restored to

posseSSIOn.

Against the determination, the respondent moved in revision

in the High Court which set aside the same, purportedly due

to the failure to induce the parties to arrive at a settlement of

the dispute under section 66(8) of the PCPA, and held that

the respondent is entitled to the possession of the disputed

property and directed the Magistrate to forthwith handover

the same to him.

The petitioner (Jayantha) preferred an appeal to this Court

against the said judgment of the High Court. Pending the

determination of the appeal, he also filed a revision

application challenging the validity of the judgment of the

learned High Court judge and in particular the part of the

order of the judge of the High Court directing the execution of

his judgment forthwith, pending the determination of the

appeal. The legality of the impugned judgment of the learned

High Court judge, based on the sole ground of failure to settle

the dispute will be examined in this judgment at another

stage.

There are two conflicting views expressed on the question as

to whether the filing of an appeal against the decision of a

High Court in the exercise of its revisionary powers in respect

of a determination made under part VII of the PCPA would

ipso factor stay the execution of its judgment or it operates

otherwise.

In order to resolve the conflict, the present divisional bench

was constituted to hear and dispose of the revision

application. Being mindful of what prompted the constitution

of the divisional bench, I now venture to embark upon a brief

discussion on the pivotal question. It is worthwhile to briefly

refer to the two conflicting decisions. In point of time the first

decision was made in R A Kusum Kanthilatha Vs Indrasiri

reported in 2005 1 SLR 411 where it was held inter alia that

upon proof of an appeal being preferred to the Court of Appeal

against a judgment of the High Court acting in revision in

respect of an order made under part VII of the PCPA, the

original court should stay its hand until the

determination of the appeal. (Emphasis added)

The second and subsequent view was expressed in the case of

R P Nandawathie Vs K Mahindasena CA CAPHC 242/06,

where it was held inter alia that the mere lodging of an

appeal does not automatically stay the execution of the

order of the High court. (Emphasis added)

At the argument we were adverted to the position that

prevailed immediately prior to the vesting of the revisionary

powers in the High Court in respect of orders made under

chapter VII of the Primary Courts Procedure Act. Prior to the

introduction of the Constitutional provision in article 154 P

(3) (b), the revisionary jurisdiction in relation to orders of the

Primary Court concerning land disputes where the breach of

the peace is threatened or likely had to be invoked through

the Court of Appeal. Any person dissatisfied with the order of

the court of Appeal had to seek special leave to appeal from

Rules of 1990 a party aggrieved by the judgment of the Court

of Appeal in the exercise of its revisionary powers had to

apply for stay of proceedings till special leave is granted.

Every party aggrieved by such a judgment of the Court of

appeal had to seek the suspension of the execution of the

judgment of the Court of Appeal, in the Supreme Court. As

has been submitted by the learned counsel this shows that by

mere lodging an application for special leave to appeal

invoking the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, does not ipso

facto, stay the order of the Court of Appeal. It does not stay

the execution of judgment. This shows that even prior to the

recognition of the revisionary powers of the High Court in

terms of article 154 P (3) (b) of the Constitution the rule was

to execute the judgment and exception was to stay

proceedings.

Be that as it may, the fact remains that in both cases referred

to above the question relating to the execution of orders made

under part VII of the PCPA pending appeal has been decided

on the premise that the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code

are applicable. This is basically an incorrect approach which

should stand corrected by reason of the decision Kayas Vs

Nazeer (2004 SLR Volume 1 page 202). In the

circumstances, I do not propose to delve into the applicability

of the casus omisus clause in the Primary Courts Procedure

Act, in respect of proceedings under chapter VII, in view of the

decision of His Lordship T B Weerasuriya, J who held that the

casus omisus clause (section 78) of the Act has no application

to proceedings under chapter VII. The relevant passage with

the omission of the inapplicable words from the judgment in

the case of Kayas (supra) IS deservedly chosen for

reproduction below.

"Section 2 of the Primary Court Procedure Act

stipulates that subject to the provisions of the Act

jurisdiction of the Primary Court shall be exclusive.

Part III of the Act . . . . . Provides for the mode of

institution of criminal prosecutions; while part IV of

the Act comprising provides for the mode of

institution of civil actions. Thus, Section 78 has

been designed to bring in provisions of the Criminal

Procedure Code Act or the provisions of the Civil

procedure Code Act only ........ .Inquiries into

disputes affecting land .......... under part VII

comprising Sections 66 - 76 are neither In the

nature of a criminal prosecution ..... nor In the

nature of civil action. Those proceedings are of

special nature since orders that are being made are

of a provisional nature to maintain status quo

for the sole purpose of preventing a breach of

the peace and which are to be superseded by an

order or a decree of a competent Court. Another

significant feature is that Section 78 while making

reference to criminal prosecutions or proceedings

and civil actions or proceedings, has not made any

reference to disputes affecting land. This exclusion

would reveal the legislative intent that Section 78 is

not intended to be made use of, for inquiries

pertaining to disputes affecting land under part VII

of the Act"- (Emphasis is mine)

The vital question that needs to be resolved now is whether

execution of orders made under Part VII would be

automatically stayed by reason of an appeal filed under 154 P

(3) (b) of the Constitution or it should operate otherwise. To

find an answer to this question one has to necessarily

examine chapter VII of the legislation in question which deals

with what is commonly known among the laymen as "section

66 cases".

Historically, there has always been a great deal of rivalry in

the society stemming from disputes relating to immovable

properties, where the breach of the peace is threatened or

likely. In the case of Perera Vs. Gunathilake (1900 - 4 N.L.R

181) His Lordship Bonser C.J, with an exceptional foresight,

spelt out the rationale well over a century and a decade ago,

underlying the principle as to why a court of law should

discourage all attempts towards the use of force in the

maintenance of the rights of citizens affecting immovable

property. To quote His Lordship

"In a Country like this, any attempt of parties to use force in

the maintenance of their rights should be promptly

discouraged. Slight brawls readily blossom into riots with

grievous hurt and murder as the fruits. It is, therefore, all the

more necessary that courts should strict in discountenancing

all attempts to use force in the assertion of such civil rights".

Let us now look at how the Indian court had once viewed the

importance of preserving the peace. In the case of Imambu v.

Hussenbi (A.I.R. 1960 Mysore 203) the court emphasized the

importance in this manner .....

"The mere pendency of a suit in a civil Court is wholly an

irrelevant circumstance and does not take away the dispute

which had necessitated a proceeding under section 145. The

possibility of a breach of the peace would still continue."

In the case of Kanagasabai Vs Mayilwaganam 78 NLR 280

282 Sharvananda,J (as His Lordship was then) whose

outspokenness needs admiration stated as follows ....

"The primary object of the jurisdiction so conferred on the

Magistrate is the prevention of a breach of the peace arising

in respect of a dispute affecting land. The section enables the

parties before the Court and maintain the status quo until the

rights of the parties are decided by a competent civil Court.

All other considerations are subordinated to the

imperative necessity of preserving the peace . ........... The

action taken by the Magistrate is of a purely preventive and

provisional nature m a civil dispute, pending final

adjudication of the rights of the parties in a civil Court. The

proceedings under this section are of a summary nature and

it is essential that they should be disposed of as

expeditiously as possible . ........... Sub-sections (2) and (6) of

section 63 of the Administration of Justice Law underline the

fact that the order made by the Magistrate under sections 62

and 63 is intended to be effective only up to the time a

competent Court is seized of the matter and passes an order

of delivery of possession to the successful party before it, or

makes an order depriving a person of any disputed right and

prohibiting interference with the exercise of such right".

The emphasis added by me in the preceding paragraph in the

process of quoting Sharvanada, J speaks volumes about the

sheer determination and the commendable courage adopted

by the Supreme Court as to need for prompt execution of

orders made in "66 matters". To recapitulate the salient

points that are in favour of expeditious execution of orders

under part VII, the following points are worth being

highligh ted.

1. It is quite clear, that the intention of the legislature in

enacting part VII of the PCPA is to preserve the peace in the

society. If an unusual length of time (sometimes more than a

decade) is taken to execute a temporary order for the

prevention of peace, the purpose of the legislation would

definitely be defeated and the intention of the Legislature in

introducing the most deserving action of the era in the nature

2. In as much as there should be expeditious disposal of a case

stemming from the breach of the peace there should

correspondingly be more expeditious and much efficient

methods to give effect to the considered resolution of the

dispute, with a view to arrest in some way the continued

breach of the peace and to avoid justice being frustratingly

delayed.

3. All other consideration being subordinate to the imperative

necessity of preserving the peace, the execution mechanism

also should keep pace with the Legislative commitment

designed under Chapter VII of the PCPA.

The word "appeal" generally signifies legal proceedings of a

Higher Court to obtain a review of a lower court decision and

a reversal of it or the granting of a new trial. It is said that the

wisest of the wise is also bound to err. The Judges are no

exception to this rule. Justice Cardozo a well known American

judge once observed that "the inn that shelters for the night is

not the journey's end" but "we are all on the journey, a journey

towards ............. our legal response, to the legal needs of the

public. We are at various stages in this long journey have

devised various structures and various solutions and they

might be inadequate for the night, but they are not our

journey's end".

This thought becomes particularly appropriate when one

considers the specific prohibition imposed by the Legislature

in its own wisdom against appeals being preferred under

Chapter VII, with the full knowledge of the fallibility of judges

as human beings. It is common knowledge that an appeal is a

statutory right and must be expressly created and granted.

Under Chapter VII not only the Legislature did purposely

\

an express prohibition. Presumably, as the determinations

under chapter VII are categorized as of temporary nature even

with regard to the execution of them we are required to

ensure a meaningful construction of the statute as shall

suppress the mischief and advance the remedy.

The next question needs to be addressed is, what then is the

nature and the purpose of the right of appeal conferred under

Article 154 P (3) (b) of the Constitution. Such a right is

unquestionably not against the determination made under

66(8)(b), 67(3), 68(1)(2)(3)(4) 69(1)(2),70,71 or 73 by the

primary court. It is quite clear on reading of section 74(2)

which is nothing but a draconian measure taken in the best

interest and absolute welfare of a society. However, the fact

remains that such a measure is necessary to safeguard their

rights until a court of competent jurisdiction is seized of the

situation to find a permanent resolution.

There is no gainsaying that the reVIsIOnary powers of this

court are extensive and extremely far and wide in nature. It is

an absolutely discretionary remedy. Such powers are

exercised only in exceptional circumstances. This reminds us

of the right of appeal granted under Article 154 P (3) (b) is a

right to challenge the judgement of the High Court

exercising revisionary powers and not to impugn the

primary court judge's order by way of an appeal. When

section 74(2) of the Primary Court Procedure Act is closely

scrutinized along with Article 154 P (3) (b), it would be seen

that it makes a whale of difference as to the purpose, nature,

and scope of such right of appeal. Had the right of appeal

been granted under chapter VII at the very inception of its

introduction, the interpretation under consideration would

have been totally different. Appeals contemplated under

Article 154 P (3) (b) on one hand and appeals permitted under the Civil. CriminRl ArhnlrRlh.r T .~h(,\l1r AarQrlQn . Tllr1~,.."h, .. ""

and other laws on the other hand are worth examining to find

out whether an appeal under 154 P (3) (b) in fact ipso factor

should stay proceedings in the original court.

Needless to state that in an application for reVISIon as

contemplated under 154 P (3) (b), what is expected to be

ascertained is whether there are real legal grounds for

impugning the decision of the High Court in the field of law

relating to revisionary powers and not whether the impugned

decision is right or wrong. Hence, in such an application the

question of a re-hearing or the re-evaluation of evidence in

order to arrive at the right decision does not arise. The appeal

in the strict sense is not one against the determination of the

judge of the primary court but against the judgement of the

High Court exercising revisionary powers. Therefore, it would

be correct to say that the right of appeal is not unconditional

as in the other cases but a qualified right provided one has

the legal ground to invoke the discretionary jurisdiction of the

high court against an order under chapter VII .

In the case of Kanthilatha relying heavily on the decision in

Edward Vs De Silva 46 NLR 343, it was observed that the

ordinary rule is that once an appeal is taken from the

judgment of an inferior Court, the jurisdiction of the court in

respect of that case is suspended. The judgment in Edward

Vs de Silva (supra) was based on the decision of A.G. vs.

Sillem 11 Eng. Law Reports 1208.

The judgment in Edward Vs De Silva, relates to the question

of the procedure to be followed when a judgment creditor is

desirous of reaping the reward of his hard work in the district

court, pending the determination of the appeal. The

provisions of the civil procedure code being applicable in such

an instance, it was held that it is a condition precedent for

execution nendinQ" Rnn~R 1 to notlr.~ th~ l11nP"TTlf"nt nf"htnr in

terms of section 763 of the CPC and also make him a party to

such incidental proceedings. Commenting on the failure to

take such steps, it was held that it would result in a failure of

jurisdiction and none of the orders made thereafter would be

of any legal consequences. Further, commenting on the effect

of issuing writ pending appeal in a civil action Soertsz A.C.J

opined that the ordinary rule is that once an appeal is taken

from the judgment of an inferior Court, the jurisdiction of that

Court is suspended except, of course, in regard the perfecting

of the appeal. His Lordship then cited with approval the

dictum of Lord Westbury, Lord Chancellor (1864), who

observed in Attorney-General v. Sillem 1[11] English Reports

at page. 1208.] as follows ...

"The effect of a right of appeal is the limitation of the

jurisdiction of one Court and the extension of the jurisdiction

of another ".

Having cited the above dictum, Soertsz A.C.J expressed that

the right of appeal being exercised the case should be

maintained in status quo till the appellate Court has dealt

with it. His Lordship then expressed that the language of

Chapter 49 of the Code makes it sufficiently clear that the

Legislature was creating an exception to the ordinary rule in a

limited way.

Soertsz A.C.J was greatly influenced by the decision of the

Privy Council in three Indian cases Keel Vs Asirwathan (4 C.

L. W. 128), Ragunath Das v. Sundra Das Khelri (A. I. R. 1914

P. C. 129) and Malkar Jun v. Nahari (N. L. R. 25 Bombay

338) when His Lordship decided Edward's case. Surprisingly,

neither the three Indian cases nor the case of Edward Vs De

Silva were either relevant or have any bearing whatsoever in

respect of the pivotal issue before us. With due respect even

the dicta of Lord Parker and Lord Westbury, had no bearing

unon the nresent revision annlication esneciR llv with re!:1Rrn

to the question of execution pending appeal under chapter VII

ofPCPA.

The stare decisis in the case of Edward Vs De Silva centered

round the right to maintain an application for writ pending

appeal without making the judgment-debtor a party and with

no notice to him. Whatever pronouncement made in that

judgment as to the limitation of the jurisdiction of one court,

extension of the jurisdiction of another and the status quo to

be maintained till the appellate court has given its decision

when an appeal is pending is nothing but an obiter. It is in

any event extremely inapposite to an application for execution

of a determination/ order made under chapter VII of the PCPA

pending appeal.

In passing it might be useful to observe that the Legislature

like in the Civil Procedure Code has not provided a

mechanism for an aggrieved party to obtain an order staying

the execution of the judgment, when it conferred the right of

appeal under Article 154 P (3). The presumption is that when

Article 154 P (3) was introduced the Legislature was not

unaware of the existence of section 74(2) of the Primary Court

Procedure Act, particularly chapter VII.

If such provisions are not made in the Constitution or in any

other Acts including the High Court of the Provinces (Special

Provisions) Act 19 of 1990, then the observations of His

Lordship Chief Justice Samarakoon would be of some use,

although strictly may not be relevant. Nevertheless, let me

reproduce the words of His Lordship for sake of clarity.

"Today's legal position thus appears to me to be that it

is not competent for the Court to stay execution of the

decree merely on the ground that the judgment-debtor

has preferred appeal against it, but it is competent for

the Court to stay execution of a decree against which

the Court that substantial loss may result to him

unless an order for stay of execution is made and

furnishes the necessary security for the due

performance of such decree, as may ultimately be

binding upon him". (Charlotte Perera Vs Thambiah and

Another 1983 1 SLR 352).

Hence, we are constrained to state that in the case of Kusum

Kanthilatha and Nandawathie the decision reached is on the

assumption that the casus omisus clause is applicable and

therefore the approach reached by inadvertence needs to be

set right. Further, in Kanthilatha's case the obiter dictum has

been given prominence ignoring the ratio decidendi. The

judgment of Sillem relied and referred to in Edward Vs De

Silva is a criminal matter arising from a statutory offence

namely to refuse to pay certain revenues due to Her Majesty.

As was rightly observed in the case of Attorney General vs

Sillem (1864) 10 HL Cas 703; 11 ER 1200 the creation of a

right of appeal is an act which requires legislative authority.

Neither the inferior nor the superior tribunal, nor both

combined can create such a right, it being essentially one of

the limitations and the extension of jurisdiction.

In any event to rely on the decision in Attorney General vs

Sillem for our present purpose may amount to destructive

analysis of Chapter VII of the PCPA than the ascertainment of

the true intention of the Parliament and carry it out by filling

in the gaps. Obviously, to put off the execution process until

the appeal is heard would tantamount to prolong the agony

and to let the breach of the peace to continue for a

considerable length of time. This in my opinion cannot be the

remedy the Parliament has clearly decided upon. Hence I am

confident that the construction we are mindful of placing by

this judgment would definitely suppress the mischief and

subtle inventions and evasions for continuance of the

In the result subject to the slight variation as to the basis of

the decision, we are inclined to follow the decision in R P

Nandawathie Vs K Mahindasena CA CAPHC 242/06, and

therefore hold inter alia that the mere lodging of an appeal

against the judgement of the High Court in the exercise

of its revisionary power in terms of Article 154 P (3) (b) of

the Constitution to the court of appeal does not

automatically stay the execution of the order of the High

court.

The petitioner has filed a petition of appeal and also a revision

application. As the determination of the petition of appeal is

still pending in order to avoid duplicity of work, it would be

convenient to consider the merits of the revision application in

this judgment itself. It is trite law that when there is

alternative remedy available the existence of special

circumstances need to be established necessitating the

indulgence of court to exercise such revisionary powers vested

in terms of the Constitution. Vide Rustum v. Hapangama Co. Ltd -

1978/79 - 2 SLR 225 - 1978/79/80 - 1 SLR 353

It has already been stated that the judgment of the learned Hi9h' ColJV/:

eiish iet judge setting aside the determination of the magistrate

was solely based on the purported failure to endeavour to

settle the matter prior to the inquiry. In order to come to this

conclusion the learned High Court judge has relied heavily on

the judgment of Ali Vs. Abdeen 2001 1 S.L.R. Vol. ... pg. 413 in

which it was held inter alia that the making of an endeavor by

the Court to settle amicably is a condition precedent which

had to be satisfied before the function of the Primary Court

under section 66(7) began to consider who had been in

possession and the fact that the Primary Court had not made

an endeavor to persuade parties to arrive at an amicable

settlement fundamentally affects the capacity or deprives the

Primary Court of competence to hold an InquIry into the

question of possession.

As far as the present case is concerned admittedly the learned

Magistrate has endeavoured to settle the dispute among the

parties. This is clearly borne out by the record maintained by

the learned Magistrate. The journal entry which demonstrates

the attempt made by the Magistrate has been reproduced by

the learned High Court Judge at page 13 of the impugned

judgment. In terms of the judgment at page 13 the learned

High Court Judge has reproduced some of the proceedings of

the Magistrate in the following manner.

oC)o 2() tDz~C)a) a() oe§ o)O(3)C)®cl IC)a)

C)(5)CtDa>OtDOz ®C)~®C)~ ®o~ 8D ~05~C)oc) <g>~OOtD

tD~ tDOz~ q~C) ®dC)tDc~ qa>o O)®C tDC)5®()

q)O~a) a>tDC)cci q z05 Q)C)() ~(5)®a)c tDO®.

o®occi qz<~a a®o®. o®occi O~G») qC)cio)c) ®(®.

~a)() o®occi a)z05 Q)C) O)O(3)C)tDOzC)~ (~C)a.

Upon perusal of the journal entries it is quite clear that the learned

Magistrate has taken much interest to endeavour the parties to

settle the matter. In terms of Section 66(7) it is the duty of the

Primary Court to endeavour to settle the matter amicably before the

matter is fIxed for inquiry.

A different view has been taken by a Bench of two Judges in

Mohomed Nizam v. Justin Dias C.A. (PHC) 16/2007 where His

Lordships Sisira de Abrew, J clearly held that the delayed objection

regarding non compliance of Section 66(7) cannot be taken for the

fIrst time at the stage of the appeal. This view was totally different to

the basis of the decision in in Ali v. Abdeen on the ground of laches.

On the facts, the present case is much stronger than the case of Ali

v. Abdeen and Mohomed Nizam v. Justin Dias as regards the

question of laches or acquiescence or express consent.

For purpose of completeness let me reproduce the relevant part of

the judgment of Sisira de Abrew, J. which reads as follows:-

"According to the above judicial decisions, the P.C.J. does

not assume jurisdiction to hear the case if he fails to act

under section 66 (6) of the Act. In the present case, have the

parties taken up the issue of jurisdiction in the primary

Court? The answer is no. The appellant in this appeal takes

up the issue of jurisdiction only in the Court of Appeal. If the

appellant or the respondent wants to keep up the issue of

jurisdiction it must be taken up at the earliest opportunity".

This view is supported by the judicial decision in David Appuhamy

Vs. Yassasi Thero 1987 1 S.L.R. 253, where it was held that an

objection to jurisdiction must be taken at the earliest possible

opportunity. If no objection is taken and the matter is within the

plenary jurisdiction of the Court, the Court will have jurisdiction to

proceed with the matter and make a valid order.

By reason of the argument advanced before the learned High Court

judge as to the non-compliance of section 66 (6), it is the

respondent before the High Court judge who had benefited by that

argument. He has not adverted the Magistrate to the non-

compliance section 66 (6) before the Magistrate commenced the

inquiry. In any event as has been stated above there has been

meaningful steps taken by the Magistrate to settle the matter. On

that aspect of the matter the learned High Court judge has erred

when he came to the conclusion that such an attempt is not in

compliance with the provisions of the PCPA.

..

In the land mark case of Visuvalingam And Others V s Liyanage And

Others 1983 SLR volume 203 it was held that where a person by

words or conduct made to another a representation of fact, either

with knowledge of its falsehood or with the intention that it should

be acted upon, or so conducts himself that another would as a

reasonable man, understand that a certain representation of fact

was intended to be acted on, and that other has acted on such

representation and alters his position to his prejudice, an estoppel

arises against the party who has made the representation, and he is

not allowed to aver that the fact is otherwise than he represented it

to be.

"The phrases "approbating and reprobating" or "blowing hot and

cold" must be taken to express, first, that the party in question is to

be treated as having made an election from which he cannot resile,

and secondly, that he will not be regarded ....... as having so elected

unless he has taken a benefit under or arising out of the course of

conduct which he has first pursued and with which his present

action is inconsistent" - Per Evershed M.R., (1950) 2 A.E.R. 549 at

552.

"The doctrine of approbation and reprobation reqUIres for, its

foundation, inconsistency of conduct, as where a man, having

accepted a benefit given to him by a judgment cannot allege the

invalidity of the judgment which confers the benefit" - Lord Russel

in Evans v. Bartlam [1937J 2 All ER 646, 652.

"In cases where the doctrine of approbation and reprobation does

apply, the person concerned has a choice of two rights either of

which he is at liberty to accept, but not both. Where the doctrine

does apply if the person to whom the choice belongs irrevocably and

with knowledge adopts the one, he cannot afterwards assert the

other," Per Lord Atkin in Lissenden v. Bosh Ltd. [1940J A.C. 412,

[1940J 1 All ER 405,412.

I I I \

1 I I I ! I I I

j I ,

I I I I I

1 I I I I 1 I 1 1 I ! 1 ,

Therefore it is quite clear that the petitioner who invoked the

revisionary jurisdiction of the High Court having taken part in the

settlement and clearly expressed his unwillingness to have the

matter settled (although the settlement was tried at a premature

stage) cannot be allowed to take the advantage to attack the

determination on the ground.

Taking into consideration all these matters, it is my considered view

that the learned High Court Judge was clearly wrong when he

reversed the determination of the learned Magistrate based on the

ground of non compliance of Section 66(7) of the PCPA. For the

foregoing reasons, I allow the revision application and accordingly

set aside the impugned judgment of the Judge of the High Court.

Consequently the determination that was challenged by way of

revision in the High Court will now prevail and the learned

Magistrate is directed to give effect to the same. The registrar is

directed to cause a copy of this judgment filed in the relevant file

pertaining to appeal No CA PHC 35/2006.

There shall be no costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

I agree

Sisira de Abrew, J

I agree

D.S.C. Lecamwasam, J.

NT/-

I I

I

\ I I

f i ! ! !

i I I I I

f

~ ! I I t , I

I t I ,