==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

CA Writ Application No.15/2011.

In the matter of an application for

An Order in the nature of a Writ of

Certiorari under and in terms of the

Provisions of Article 140 of the

Constitution.

Jayasinghe Pelige Nimal

Jayasinghe

Medical Center

No.64, Mulatiyana Road

Kamburupitiya.

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. Justice G.W. Edirisuriya

Chairman.

2. E.M.G. Edirisinghe

Vice-Chairman

3. Anton Alfred

Member.

All of above are named as

Members of and constituting

The University Services Appeal

Board.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued on

Decided on

S.Sriskandarajah, J,

2

N o.20 Ward Place,

Colombo 00700.

4. University of Ruhuna

Matara

5. University Grants Commission

N o.20 Ward Place,

Colombo 00700

RESPONDENTS

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

M.A.Sumanthiran with E.Tegal,

for the Petitioner,

J.C.Boange,

for 1st ,2nd and 3rd Respondent

08.03.2012

15.01.2013

The Petitioner was appointed as the University Medical Officer at the

Agriculture Faculty of the University of Ruhunu in or about July 1999. On or about the

10th of September 2007, the University took a decision to interdict the Petitioner from

the said service. The Petitioner submitted that a preliminary inquiry was conducted

and he made a statement on the 29th of October 2007 in relation to the matters leading to

the said interdiction. The Petitioner was thereafter served with a Charge Sheet dated 3rd

January 2008. The Petitioner denied all the charges levelled against him and he

presented himself for the first date of formal inquiry, and the inquiry was postponed on

3

several dates. As a result, the Petitioner informed the Inquiring Officer by letter dated

27th May 2008 that he will not be attending the said inquiry and informed that his reply

to the Charge Sheet be considered by the Inquiring Officer in coming to a finding in the

matter. The Petitioner submitted, as a consequence of the Petitioner's letter to the

Inquiring Officer, the payment of half wages to the Petitioner was stopped from June

2008 by letter dated 19th June 2008. Thereafter the Inquiring Officer, at the conclusion of

the inquiry, found the Petitioner guilty of all three charges. Based on this finding, the

Council of the University of Ruhuna, took a decision to dismiss the Petitioner from

service, and the Petitioner was served with a letter to that effect on the lOth of December

2008. On the 2nd of March 2009, the Petitioner preferred an appeal against the decision

to terminate his service to the University Services Appeal Board (U.S.A.B.). The

Petitioner filed written submissions in response. The Respondents also had filed

written submissions. Thereafter an order was made by the University Services Appeal

Board and it was served on the Petitioner on the 23rd November 2010. The order

specifically states that the appeal filed was received at the USAB office on 13/05/2009

has the Vice Chancellor, Deputy Vice Chancellor and all the individual Council

Members as Respondents. The USAB in its order held that having carefully considered

the averments made by both parties, it seems that the Appellant has failed to name the

correct Respondents in appeal.

Since the Appellant had not mentioned the appointing authority, nor the authority who

dismissed the Appellant, the USAB upheld the objection raised by the Respondents and

dismissed the appeal. The USAB has observed that the University Grants Commission

is the appointing authority, having issued the Petitioner's appointment letter, and the

dismissal was by the Council of the 4th Respondent University and, as the Council is a

body established under the law, the Council should have been made a party, and the

Petitioner has failed to make the Council of the University of Ruhunu as a party, instead

of making the said Council as a party, the Petitioner has named the individual Members

of the Council of the University of Ruhuna. Hence the USAB has come to the finding

I f i t t

ft ;

4

that without making the appointing authority and the authority that had terminated the

services of the Petitioner it cannot make an order against them.

As the Petitioner has challenged the termination of his services by the Council of

the University of Ruhuna, and as he has not made the Council as a party to the appeal,

it is a fatal irregularity and, therefore, the decision of the USAB cannot be challenged by

a Writ of Certiorari. Hence this Court dismisses this Application without cost.

President of the Court of Appeal

IlI'