==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

I ,

!

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 555 /2000 F D.C. Bandarawela No. 174/ RE

1. Mrs Hyacinth Sita Seneviratne, (Trustee of Dasanayake Trust)

(deceased)

2. Dr. Mackingsley Gamini Dissanayake, Trustee of the Dasanayake Trust,

3. Sarathchandra Bandara Ehalepola Seneviratne, Trustee of the Dasanayake Trust, 4420, Haethome Street, Washington DC.

Plaintiffs Vs.

1. K. I. Mohamed Marzook, 5011, Railway Station Road, Haputale. 2. Jailabdeen Jaleel, 3. N ageswary Arumugam, 4. Miss. N. Krishnasamy, 5. A. Kumaresamoorthy, All of No 9, Thambipillai Avenue, Haputale.

Defendants

AND NOW BETWEEN

1. Mrs Hyacinth Sita Seneviratne, (Trustee of Dasanayake Trust)

(deceased)

I,

I I i

I I

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

2

2. Dr. Mackingsley Gamini Dissanayake, Trustee of the Dasanayake Trust,

3. Sarathchandra Bandara Ehalepola Seneviratne, Trustee of the Dasanayake Trust, 4420, Haethome Street, Washington DC.

Plaintiff Appellants

Vs

1. K. I. Mohamed Marzook, 50/1, Railway Station Road, Haputale. 2. Jailabdeen Jaleel, 3. Nageswary Arumugam, 4. Miss. N. Krishnasamy, 5. A. Kumaresamoorthy, All of No 9, Thambipillai Avenue, Haputale.

Defendant Respondent s

: UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

H. Vithanachchi for the Plaintiff Appellants

M. Ashid Maharoof for the Defendant

Respondents

02.10.2013

29.11.2013

,iI

!I

,II! !I

fI

lIIII I I II

~ I 1II,II

I

t \ <I I 1 1 I i

3

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

The Plaintiff Appellants (hereinafter referred to as the Appellants)

instituted the said action against the Defendant Respondents (hereinafter referred

to as the Respondents) in the District Court of Bandarawela seeking to eject the

Respondents from the land described in the schedule to the plaint. The Appellants

have instituted the said action on the basis that the said premises have been sub-let

to the 2nd to 5th Respondents by the 1 st Respondent.

The 1st and 2nd Respondents have filed their answer denying the

averments contained in the plaint and praying for a dismissal of the Appellants'

action. After trial the learned District Judge, by judgment dated 06.09.2000 has

dismissed the Appellants' action. The Appellants have appealed to this court.

Both parties have admitted that the premises in suit were governed by

the Rent Act No 7 of 1972. The Respondents have further admitted that the said

premises have been rented out to the 1 st Respondent on 05th of November 1979 by

the Founder Trustees of the Dasanayake Trust.

Upon the said admissions the burden was on the 1st Respondent to

prove that the premises have not been sublet to the 2nd to 5th Respondents. The 1 st

Respondent in his evidence has testified that he was in occupation of the said

premises since November, 1979, with his mother Umma Salma Beebi, sister

Lathiefa Beebi and her husband Jeinul Abdeen Jaleel (the 2nd Respondent). He

further stated that he paid the rent and his sister or her husband did not pay a rent.

He has specifically stated that he has been in occupation of the premises since

1979.

IIII

t I I I i

I j I ! 1

,~

J j

§ i

1 I I f I 1 l i I

j

4

During the cross examination of the 1 st Respondent the Appellant has

produced a certified copy of the Electoral Register marked P 5. According to P 5

the 1 st Respondent was the chief house holder of premises No 705A, Railway

Station Road. The 1 st Respondent has admitted that the first name in P 5 was his

name and the third person was his sister. In his evidence the 1 st Respondent has

further admitted that even the summons of the case was served on him at Railway

Station Road by the Fiscal. The Fiscal's Report has been produced marked P 6.

Said evidence has clearly shown that during the period relevant to this action the 1 st

Respondent was not in occupation of the premises in suit i.e. No.09 Thambipillai

Mawatha, Haputale. Also it was crystallized that the 1 st Respondent was in

occupation of the premises No 705A, Railway Station Road.

When I consider the said evidence it is my considered view that the

Appellants has led sufficient prima facie evidence to establish that there was

subletting by proof of the fact that 2nd defendant was in the premises attend to his

own work and that 1 st Respondent appeared to have relinquished his control of the

premises. The burden must then necessarily shift to the 1 st Respondent to explain

the presence of the 2nd Respondent on the premises doing his own work - a right 1 st

Respondent was entitled to exercise by virtue of his tenancy.

At the trial, the 2nd Respondent has not given evidence. Therefore it

seems that the Respondents have not only failed to challenge the evidence of the

Appellants but also to corroborate the evidence of the 1 st Respondent. In the said

circumstances it can be concluded on a balance of probability that the 1 st

Respondent has sublet the premises in suit to the 2nd Respondent.

,I

!!I

! iI!!

II

I! !

~ t I !I III

tI\

f

\

5

In the case of Sangadasa vs. Hussain and Another [1999] 2 SLR 395 it

was held that "It is sufficient for a landlord to establish a prima facie case of

subletting and the burden then shifts to the tenant to explain the nature of the

occupation of the alleged subtenant."

Therefore I set aside the judgment of the learned District Judge dated

06.09.2000 and enter judgment as prayed for in the plaint. I allow the appeal of the

Appellants with costs.

Appeal allowed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

! I!

\