==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL

OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. (Writ) Application No.863/10

U. L. Karunawathie No.291.Wakwella Road, Hapugala Wakwella

Petitioner

Vs.

1. People's Bank No.75, Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 02.

2. W.Karunajeewa The Chairman

People's Bank No.75, Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 02.

3. N.Wasantha Kumara General Manager (Acting) People's Bank No.75, Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 02.

4. Chief Manager (Human Resources) People's Bank No.75, Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 02.

5. K.H.L.Chandrasiri Deputy General Manager (Human Resources) People's Bank No.75, Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 02.

Respondents

It i iIt ,

~ f. i

l I l 1

~ I !

i f J

J I i

I

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS

DECIDED ON

CHITRASIRI, J.

K. T.CHITRASIRI, J.

L.T.B.DEHIDENIYA J.

Y.L.Edward Goonethilake with W.A.N.Alwis and Lahiru N. Silva for the Petitioner

Manoli Jinadasa with S.Senanayake and A.Wijesekera

for the 1 st to 5th Respondents

12.03.2015

06.09.2013 by the Petitioner

25.07.2013 by the 1st to 5th Respondents

12.05.2015

This is an application seeking inter alia to have a writ of certiorari issued on

the respondents directing them to quash the decision made by the 4th respondent by

which the respondents withheld a part payment of the gratuity amounting to Rs.

Three Hundred Thirty Seven Thousand Five Hundred (337,500/) being paid to the

petitioner. The said decision is found in the letter dated 26.03.2008, marked as P5

filed with the petition. The petitioner also has sought for a writ of mandamus

compelling the respondents to pay her the said Rs.337 ,500 / - alleged to have been a

part of the retirement gratuity of the petitioner that had been retained by the

respondents.

In paragraph 10 of the petition, the petitioner has averred that the 4th

respondent has decided to retain Rs.337 ,500 / - out of the gratuity payment due to

2

tI!i fII

r ! t I!l, i i

her without holding a preliminary or formal inquiry. She also has alleged that the

respondents have not even followed the Rules of Procedure laid down in the People's

Bank Code of Disciplinary Rules contained in the circular bearing No.326j2002,

marked P6, when the 1st respondent Bank decided to withhold a part of her gratuity,

having violated the rules of natural justice. Accordingly, she has prayed that a writ of

certiorari be issued quashing the decision referred to in the letters marked P5 and

Pll of the 4th respondent and also for a writ of mandamus directing the respondents

to pay the unpaid sum of Rs.337,500j- that had been retained by the Bank out of

her gratuity entitlement.

The fact that no formal inquiry was held before the decision to retain

Rs.337,500j- was made, has not been disputed by the respondents. However, the

respondents have stated that there had been an investigation of an incident in which

the petitioner with two other employees of the Bank had alleged to have permitted I!

withdrawal of funds that was kept as security for a particular facility given by the

Bank. The fact that the monies so released have not yet being recovered was also not

I

in dispute. Admittedly, the petitioner has given a statement in that preliminary

investigation conducted by the Bank in connection with the unauthorized release of

j' funds. The report dated 10.12.2007 that was filed upon completion of the aforesaid I

preliminary investigation is annexed with the objections filed by the respondents

marked D3.

The position taken up by the respondent is that the dispute in this application

comes within the terms of the contract of employment of the petitioner and therefore

the dispute before this Court is not amenable to writ jurisdiction. They have also

3

I l I

I 1 ,

taken up the position that the petitioner has not availed of the methods or avenues

such as making an application to the Commissioner of Labour, for relief that were

available to the petitioner for redress before filing this writ application. Accordingly,

the respondents have contended that the petitioner, under those circumstances is

not entitled to have the writs issued as prayed for. They also have alleged that there

had been a considerable delay on the part of the petitioner in coming to Court.

Then the issue to be determined is whether there had been a violation of the

rules of natural justice by not having a formal inquiry or at least by not following the

methodology referred to in the aforesaid circular No.326j2002, marked P6, by the 1st

respondent Bank. On numerous occasions, our courts have decided that the rules of

natural justice are to be observed when there is a public duty cast upon the

authorities concerned. This position of law had been accepted and implemented in

the case of Weligama Multi-Purpose Co-operative Society Ltd. v. Chandradasa

Daluwatta. [1984 (1) SLR 195J In that case a Bench of five Judges in the Supreme

Court has held thus:

"Having regard to the constitution and functions of the respondent Bank, I hold

that there is no public duty or statutory duty in this case to call the petitioner for

this interview. As is well known, this Writ will not issue for private purposes.

Staff Circular 186/82 (which adopts the Nihal Wiratunga Report on the

Minister's directions) is only a circular and not a regulation having statutory

force. "

In the case of Chandradasa v. Wijeratne [1982 (1) SLR at 413J too it had

been decided that:

4

I

1

"the order of dismissal of an employee was in the exercise of a private

contractual right and hence no writ would lie."

In the case of Jayaweera v. Wijeratne, [1985 (2) SLR at 413J it was held in

the following manner:

"Where the relationship between the parties is purely contractual one of a

commercial nature, neither certiorari nor mandamus will lie to remedy grievances

arising from an alleged breach of contract or failure to observe the principles of

natural justice even if one of the parties is a public authority. "

In the case of Siva Kumar v. Director General of Samurdhi Authority of

Sri Lanka and another, [2007 (1) SLR 96J Chandra Ekanayake, J has held that:

«the object of the application is to compel the performance by the respondents of

certain obligations out of a contract of employment which existed between the

petitioner and the respondents. His claim is merely a dispute about a private

right and as such a Writ of Mandamus does not lie. Such matters arising out as

to the contracts of employment are solely matters within the purview of private

law and not a matter for judicial review."

In the case of Gawarammana v. The Tea Research Board and others,

[2003 (3) SLR 120J Sripavan,J (as he then was) held:

"that the powers derived from contracts are matter of private law. The fact that

one of the parties to the contract is a public authority is not relevant since the

decision sought to be quashed by way of certiorari is itself was not made in the

exercise of any statutory power."

Basically, the complaint of the petitioner was that the 1st respondent Bank has

violated the rules of natural justice since it had failed to hold a formal inquiry before

5

the decision was made to retain part of her gratuity. Payment of gratuity emanates

from the contract of employment she had with the 1 st respondent Bank. It is an

agreement between two parties even though one of them namely the 1 st respondent

Bank is a public enterprise. In such a situation, the parties are to implement the

terms of the contract of employment between the parties concerned. Accordingly, it is

clear that no public duty is cast upon the respondent Bank in this instance.

As mentioned in the authorities referred to above, if no public duty exists at a

given instance, then the courts do not invoke and exercise its writ jurisdiction. As

mentioned hereinbefore in this judgment, respondent Bank had no public duty to

perform towards the petitioner since the matter complained of comes within the

contract of employment, the petitioner had with the Bank. Therefore, it is my opinion

that the petitioner in this case is not entitled to have the writs of certiorari and

mandamus issued, as sought in her petition.

Moreover, it is trite law that the courts do not inclined to issue writs when

other remedial measures are in place for an aggrieved party to seek relief. In such a

situation that party who is aggrieved by a decision made by the authorities should

first exhaust those other measures available and then come to courts for redress.

The applicable law in such a situation had been discussed by Marsoof, J in the

case of Ranaweera v. Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka and another. [2004 (2)

SLR at 346] In that case it was held that the writ of mandamus would not be

available when there is an effective alternative remedy.

6

II

I I I ! If t I ! I

f I III I( !

i

! i IIIt r

Also In the case of Mahanayake v. Chairman Ceylon Petroleum

Corporation and others [2005J 2 SLR at 193, referring to the decision in

Hendrick Appuhamy v. John Appuhamy 69 NLR at 32, it was held that where a

specific remedy is given by a Statute thereby deprives a person who insists upon

remedy of any other form of remedy than that given by the Statute.

In this instance, the petitioner being an employee of the 1 st respondent Bank

could have sought relief from the Department of Labour or made an application

under the Pension Fund Rules that were available to her in the administrative system

of the 1 st respondent Bank. No material is available to show that the petitioner has

sought relief making use of those measures that were available to her. Failure of the

petitioner to do so will stand in the way for her to obtain the writs as prayed for in

her petition. Hence, it will become an additional reason for this Court not to grant the

relief sought for in the petition.

For the aforesaid reasons, this application to issue writs is dismissed. No costs.

Application dismissed.

L.T.B.DEHIDENIYA J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

7