==== BLOCKS ==== 

,I

IN THE COURT OF APPEA]~

OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A.No.456/98 (F) D.C.COLOMBO 4528/SPL

1. Sri Lanka Tran sport Board 200, Kirula ROE.d Colombo OS

J st Defendant-Appellant

2. Secretary to the Treasury Ministry of Finance, Planning Ethnic & National Integration Secretariat Colombo 1.

3rd Defendant-Appellant

3. Secretary Ministry of Transport, Environment & Women Affairs

D.R.Wijewardane Mawatha Colombo 10.

4th Defendant-Appellant

4. Registrar of Companies Samagam Medura NoAOO, D.R.Wijewardane Mawatha

Colombo 10

5th Defendant-Appellant

5. The Attorney General Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

6 th Defendant-Appellant

1

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN

SUBMISSIONS

DECIDED ON

Vs.

1. S.P.Kusumawathie No.5j2, Ratnawella Road Kalubowila Dehiwela

Substituted-Plaintiff-Respondent

2. Sri Lanka Trans Jort Board No.200, Kirula ~oad Colombo 08.

2 nd. Defendant-Respondent

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J.

W.M.M.MALINIE~ GUNARATNE, J.

Ranjith Ranawaka with Ko~ ala Perera for the

1 st Defendant-Appellant

M.Fernando, A.S.G. with Nayomi Kahawiata, S.C. for the

3rd, 4th, 5th and 6th Defendant-Appellants

Rajitha Hathurusinghe for the

Substituted-Plaintiff-Respondent

Ranjith Ranawaka with Kosala Perera for the

2 nd Defendant-Respondent

09.10.2014

07.11.2014 by the 1st Defendant-Appellant-Petitioner

17.11.2014 by the Substituted-Plaintiff-Respondent

28.01.2015 by the 1st, 3 rd , 4th, ~)th and the 6th Defendant-Appellants

03.03.2015

2

CHITRASIRI, J.

1 st, 3rd, 4th, 5th and the 6th defendant-appellants (hereinafter referred to as the

appellants) filed this appeal seeking to have the jud?;ment dated 28.05.1998 of the

learned District Judge of Colombo set aside. By filing this appeal, the appellants

also have sought to have the plaintiffs action dism:.ssed or in the alternative they

have moved for a re-trial. In the original court, learned District Judge granted the

reliefs that were prayed for in paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 in the prayer to the plaint

whilst refusing to give the first three reliefs referrej to therein. As a result, the

plaintiff-respondent was awarded Rupees Five Hundred Thousand (Rs.500,000 / -) as

damages though the claim made to have a declaratio n as to the legality in respect of

the termination of his services as a Member of the Board of Directors of the 1 st

defendant company, namely Seemasahitha Maharagama Janatha Santhaka

Pravahana Sevaya, had been refused.

In the plaint filed by the plaintiff-respondent,:wo causes of action have been

disclosed. The first cause of action alleged by the plaintiff-respondent is that he was

unlawfully removed from the post of Director in tl: e Directorate of Seemasahitha

Maharagama Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya, 11 st defendant-appellant] for the

reasons morefully set out in the plaint. The secor.d cause of action is to obtain

damages caused to the Plaintiff-Respondent as a result of the termination of services

referred to in the first cause of action. The aforesaid two causes of action have been

amply described in paragraphs 22 and 25 in the plaint dated 23.09.1995 which had

been filed on 22.01.1996 in the District Court of Colombo. Issues of the plaintiff-

respondent were framed in accordance with the cJoresaid two causes of action

3

III! I II

~ • ! ; ,

I

!II I. I

I

l

t,I

referred to in paragraphs 22 and 25 in the plaint. Those are the issues bearing

Nos.12 and 15 raised on behalf of the plaintiff-respondent.

Those two issues are as follows:

12. O®)(5)~ q)~ O.!S)O) CO<ia) oz~®ij@tl)Oz qCJ)jt~~ QO<iC~ ~E)a) C3a®o

G))~C))(5))O <i<9tl)~O Q)~ccl Gza)(?

t55t>ti'!s))®COa), o®)oC3c ozE)za)®oa), ®).!S)Stl) O)a)a)E)coa),

q~)G)G)).6) B~<id(?

[Vide at page 88 in the appeal brief]

Answers given to those two issues are as follow 3:

15. W~.

[Vide at page 138 in the appeal brief].

Plain reading of the issue 12 referred to above and the answer given thereto

show that the learned District Judge has concluded that the 3rd defendant-appellant

namely, the Secretary to the Treasury had the power to remove the plaintiff-

respondent from the post of Director in the 1 st defendant company in accordance

with article 10 of the Articles of Association of that company. The first defendant

company, namely Seemasahitha Maharagama Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya

was later absorbed to the Sri Lanka Transport Board and accordingly Sri Lanka

4

t" I, I I!I 1

fj

1I ! !

Transport Board was substituted in the room of the said Seemasahitha Maharagama

Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya for the purpose of proceeding with this appeal.

Having decided so by the learned District Judge, he has answered the issue No.15

affirmatively and proceeded to make order awarding damages to the plaintiff-

respondent though the issue No.15 is an issue consequential to the issue 12.

As mentioned hereinbefore, the cause for the plaintiff-respondent to file this

plaint claiming damages had been solely the termination of his position as a Director

from the Board of Directors of the 1st defendant company. Such a position is clearly

seen by looking at the item No.4 in the prayer to the plaint. Said item No.4 reads

thus:

[vide at page 36 in the appeal brief].

In the circumstances, it is clear that the plaintiff-respondent becomes entitled

to claim damages only upon establishing that hi:3 services as a Director were

terminated unlawfully. Decision of the learned District Judge on the issue of

termination of service is against the Plaintiff-Respcndent. In his decision he has

clearly held that the termination of his services was lawful in view of the article 10 of " .. ,

the Articles of Association of the 1st defendant Company. (vide at page 172 in the

5

III II

I

t

j II I ! I

appeal brief) Decision so made by the trial judge is found in the answer to the issue

No.12 as well and is found at page 138 in the appeal Jrief.

Therefore, it is clear that the learned District Judge when he awarded

damages to the plaintiff-Respondent has failed to adjress his mind to the aforesaid

matters found in item 4 referred to in the prayer to the plaint. Neither has he given

reasons as to why he awarded damages, after having decided that the termination of

services had been within the Rules. Hence, it is seen that the learned District Judge

somewhat arbitrarily and without assigning reasons, has decided to award damages

even though the plaintiff-respondent is not entitled for same in view of the pleadings

read with the answer given to the issue No.12.

Moreover, the Plaintiff-respondent has not even filed an appeal to challenge

the decision made on the question of termination of his services. Such inaction on

the part of the Plaintiff-Respondent prevents this CJurt considering the merits on

the question of termination of his services as a Director. Under those

circumstances, plaintiff-respondent cannot claim damages relying upon Clause 10 of

the Articles of Association and it is more so when the decision of the learned District

Judge is that the termination of services of the plaintiff-respondent was lawful. It is

further established by looking at the manner in which the plaint was drafted and the

issues were framed.

In view of the aforesaid reasons, I am of the 0 pinion that the learned District

Judge was not entitled in law to award damages to the Plaintiff-Respondent.

Therefore, the judgment of the learned District Judge cannot be allowed to stand.

6

,I

:

; .

Learned Deputy Solicitor General has also submitted that the claim referred to

in item 4 in the prayer to the plaint is basically a monetary relief that had been

made even against the 3rd defendant-appellant. Accordingly, she contended that

such a claim against the 3rd defendant-appellant cannot be sustained since the 3rd

Defendant namely Secretary to the Treasury is not a juristic person.

Admittedly, the learned District Judge having answered the issue bearing No.

20 has held that the plaintiff-respondent cannot file and maintain this action

against the 3rd and the 6th defendant-appellants. Issue No.20 and the answer thereto

read thus:

[vide at page 89 in the appeal brief]

Answer:

(vide at page 139 in the appeal brief).

Therefore, it is seen that the learned trial judge himself was of the view that

the 3rd defendant-appellant is not a j"Lu-istic pers'_ n. However, in the body of the

judgment, he has stated that the plaintiff-responden t is entitled to obtain damages

from the 3rd defendant-appellant as well. Relevant sentence in the judgment is as

follows:

-

J

I I 1 1 l

~ I I 1 I I I I 1

, .

Ci® q~C) C§>~aoa; ~ C)oZ~ q~C), oz®®i)~iC)ozC), lc).!D, 2c).!D OCS> 3c).!D

C)a;6iC)OZC)o!ifCi(5)o!if 0zSe@ ~cl~ 5cl ocs> .!D~ (5»)d~ ~Q)) (5)Z~®C) cs>zci3 C).!D Oa~

C§>~aoa; ~ C)a~c g~ 9~~ C)~C) OCS>O) :.1(cs>o!D qo!D(®C) sg~oz Ci(®o!D

oz®®i)@tDOzCiC35 C))SCC) .!D~ 65o!D~C) C))dO))(5)O) O)O®.

[vide the last paragraph at page 137 in the appeal brief]

Such discrepancy found in the judgment show that the learned District Judge

had factually fell into error when it comes to the status of the 3rd defendant from

whom the damages have been claimed. Therefore, I agree with the contention of the

learned Additional Solicitor general. Hence, it is clear that the learned District Judge

has misdirected himself by awarding damages t:ayable by the 3rd Defendant

particularly when there is a monetary claim been made against the said 3rd

defendant who is neither a natural person nor a legal person.

The matters referred to above clecTly show that the learned District Judge has

misdirected when he decided to award c.amages in h'lour of the plaintiff-respondent.

In the circumstances, I decide to set aside the judgment dated 28.05.1998 of the

learned District Judge of Colombo. Also, I make order that the plaint of the plaintiff-

respondent shall stand dismissed in view of the answer given to the issue No.12.

At this stage, it is necessary to note that the appellants in their petition of

appeal have also prayed for an order for re-trial as a relief alternative to the relief

prayed to have a dismissal of the plaint. In this regard, it is pertinent to note that

the learned District Judge having looked at the Articles of Association of the 1st

Defendant Company has clearly held that the termination of services of the plaintiff-

8

I

f .. f f f i I !I1[ f

f

I

ft I

I! Ii f : t III !

I

JIf, I. I

i ! J I i l i i 1 i I

, ..

respondent as a Director is within the provisions contained in the said Articles of

Association of the 1st Defendant Company. That decision has not been appealed

against. As discussed hereinbefore in this judgment 4th to the 6 th reliefs depend on

the decision on the principle relief namely the relief ot} the question of termination of

services of the plaintiff-respondent referred to in the Erst three items in the prayer to

the plaint. Indeed, last three reliefs are consequential to the first three reliefs.

When no appeal is filed as to the decision in rE spect of the principle relief, the

decision so made will remain and the appellate courts will not interfere with such a

decision. Therefore, this Court is not in a position to make an order to have a trial de

novo. However, question of having a re--trial will not arise in this instance since this

Court has made order dismissing the plaint.

For the aforesaid reasons, this appeal is allow:d. Action filed by the Plaintiff-

Respondent is dismissed. Learned District Judge of Colombo is directed to enter

decree accordingly. Considering the circumstances of the case, I make no order as to

the costs of this appeal as well as the costs in the Court below.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

MALINIE GUNARATNE, J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE CO JRT OF APPEAL

9

\I

~

r

{It,•ti !