==== BLOCKS ==== 

i 1 I I I • . 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

Sivaneshan Raja alias Nesha

Accused -Appellan t.

C.A. Appeal No. 20/2009

H.C. Welikada Case No: 303/2006

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

-Vs-

Republic of Sri Lanka

Respondent

Sisira J. de Abrew ,J. (Acting PICA) &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

Ms. Sharmila Amarawickrama for the Accused-

Appellant.

Dileepa Peeris SSC for the Respondent.

09.12.2013

1

Sisira J. de Abrew ,J. (Acting P I CAl

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases. The accused-

appellant in this case was convicted for being in possession of 1068.4

grams of heroin and for trafficking the same amount. The learned trial

judge after trial sentenced him to death on both counts.

Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence he has

appealed to this Court. According to the prosecution case the police officers

arrested the accused-appellant with a parcel of heroin. The weight of the

parcel was over 2 kilograms. The accused-appellant in his evidence admitted

that the parcel was found with him, and he further took up the position

that one Rajan gave the parcel to him. When the police officers examined

the parcel they found heroin inside the parcel. Police officers however took

the accused-appellant in order to find where Rajan was. Police officers took

him to Nawagampura area but did not find a person called Rajan. However

police officer admits that at Nawagampura bus halt he searched a person

called Rajan. The Government Analyst has confirmed that net heroin in the

parcel was 1068.4 grams. Learned State Counsel when cross-examining the

accused-appellant marked 03 contradictions. One contradiction was marked

as P14. According to P14, he, in his statement made to the police, has

admitted that Rajan does the heroin business. State Counsel marked

another contradiction marked PIS. According to PIS the accused-appellant,

in his statement made to the Police, has said that the accused's brother has

2

I!

t!!

!f

I

fl,

~ I,

f i i, I

helped Rajan in his business. Learned Counsel appearing for the accused-

appellant contends that these 02 contradictions are confessions. She

contends that these 2 contradictions suggest the inference that the

accused-appellant has admitted in his statement made to the police that he

had made a confession. When we consider both PI4 and P15, in our

opinion, they do not suggest the inference that the accused-appellant has

made a confession to the police. We therefore reject the said submission.

Learned counsel for the accused-appellant tried to contend that the

learned trial Judge had considered the statement made by the accused-

appellant to the police as evidence. But when we consider the judgment we

do not find that the learned trial judge had considered the statement made

by the accused-appellant to the police as evidence. We therefore reject the

said submission.

Learned counsel contended that although the accused-appellant has

admitted the fact that the parcel was found with him, the prosecution has

failed to prove mens rea. I now advert to this contention. In a criminal case,

it is difficult for the prosecution to find direct evidence to prove the mens

rea. Mens rea will have to be understood in a case. In considering whether

the accused-appellant had mens rea or not it is relevant to consider the

following matters. The accused-appellant admits that he did not associate

with Rajan. Although he says that he does not associate with Raj an, he

3

admits that one Rajan had helped him in his brother's alms gIvIng. The

question that arises is if the accused-appellant does not associate with

Rajan as to why he accepted a parcel contents of which were unknown to

him ( according to him) from Rajan. Will a person accept a parcel weight of

which is over 2 kilograms from a person with whom he does not associate.

This incident has taken place in 2001. The accused has been arrested

near Kelanitissa Power Station. When we consider the situation that

prevailed in the country in 2001, the question that arises is whether a

person would accept a parcel from another person without asking about the

contents of the parcel. This question has to be answered in the negative.

When we consider all these matters, the fact that the accused-appellant did

not have mens rea cannot be accepted.

When we consider the evidence led at the trial, we hold the view that

the accused-appellant was aware of the contents in the parcel and that he

had accepted the parcel knowing what the contents were. It is significant to

note that the police officers in their evidence had stated that the street

value of the heroin was 5-6 millions.

When we consider all these matters, we are unable to accept the

contention of the learned counsel for the accused-appellant. When we

consider the evidence of the accused-appellant, we hold the view that the

4

2

accused-appellant's evidence cannot be believed and IS not capable of

creating a reasonable doubt in the prosecution case.

We have gone through the evidence led at the trial and are of the

opinion that the prosecution has proved its case beyond reasonable doubt.

We therefore affirm the conviction and the sentence imposed by the learned

trial judge and dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Kpmj-

5

1

f I

~ t i ! !! I

f

~. f If IIII

\

Ii I II