==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

I IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

B.M. Nimal Rajakaruna

Accused-Appellant.

C.A.NO. 143/2010

H.C.Negombo No. HC 37/2004

Vs.

Hon. The Attorney General

Respondent

***********

BEFORE SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J.(ACTING PICA) &

P.W.D.C.JAYATHILAKA, J.

COUNSEL A.K.Chandrakantha (Assigned Counsel) for the

Accused -Appellan t.

Dappula de Livera DSG for the respondent.

ARGUED AND

DECIDED ON 22nd January, 2014.

***********

1

2

SISIRA J. DE ABREW. J.(ACTING PICA)

Accused-appellant produced by the Prison Authorities IS

present in Court.

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted of the

murder of a woman named Dissanayake Mudiyanselage Chandralatha

and was sentenced to death. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and

the sentence he has appealed to this Court. Facts of this case may be

briefly summarized as follows:-

The accused-appellant who failed in his attempts to start a

love affair with the deceased girl developed an animosity towards the

deceased girl over the refusal by her to start a love affair. The deceased

girl was a factory employee in Katunayake area. On the day of the

incident around 6.45 p.m. when the deceased girl was walking on the

road, the accused-appellant came and stabbed the deceased girl three

times. According to the post mortem report there were two stab injuries

on the neck and the chest and a cut injury on her jaw. This incident

was witnessed by Heenmenika and Sumanawathi who were also

,i

rIIII

3

employees of the same factory in which the deceased girl was working.

Heenmenika and Sumanawathi were friends of the deceased girl.

According to them, the accused, after stabbing the deceased girl, threw

the knife away and ran away.

Witness Vass who was an independent witness was passmg

this place on his motor cycle. On seeing a girl falling on the ground and

a man running away from the scene, he gave chase on his motor cycle

to the man who was running. He caught the man and people in the area

tied the man to a lamppost. The man who was caught by Vass is the

accused in this case. The investigating police officer recovered a knife

on a statement made by the accused-appellant. The accused-appellant,

in his dock statement, stated that on the day of the incident around

6.45 p.m. he saw a man whom he suspected to be the earlier boyfriend

of the deceased girl, stabbing the girl and running away from the scene.

According to him, he gave chase to the said man but failed to catch him.

It has to be noted here that the position taken up by the accused-

appellant in his dock statement was not suggested to witness Vass when

he was giving evidence. This position was also not suggested to

Heenmenika and Sumanawathi. When we consider all these matters it

appears that the position taken up by the accused-appellant is an

afterthought. Therefore, the rejection of the dock statement by the

[

I

r•JI

4

learned trial Judge is, in our view, correct. In our view the said dock

statement does not even create a reasonable doubt in the prosecution

case.

Learned Counsel appearing for the accused-appellant

complained to this Court that inadmissible evidence had been led at the

trial. Investigating police officer when giving evidence, on a question

raised by the prosecuting State Counsel, gave the following answer "It

revealed to me. Accused kept the knife which was used to commit the

murder." It appears from the evidence that the witness had not

completed the answer. In my view, the learned trial Judge in his

discretion should have stopped this evidence. This appears to be an item

of inadmissible evidence. But it appears from the evidence of the

investigating police officer that he recovered a knife in consequence of a

statement made by the accused. The said statement reads thus:-" knife

was thrown. Knife can be pointed out." In our view, the said statement

has not offended section 27 of the Evidence Ordinance. Although the

police officer says that the accused had kept the knife which was used

to commit the murder, learned trial Judge has not used the said evidence

in his judgment. We note that this is a trial by a Judge but, not a trial

by a jury. Considering all these matters, we hold that the said evidence

given by the police officer has not caused any prejudice to the accused-

fI

II I•

5 , .

appellant. The evidence of the two eye witnesses and witness Vass IS

convmcmg to conclude that the accused-appellant has committed the

murder of the deceased girl.

We have considered the evidence led at the trial and are of

the opinion that the learned trial Judge has rightly convicted the

accused-appellant for the offence of murder. We therefore hold the view

that we should not interfere with the judgment of the learned trial Judge.

We affirm the conviction and the sentence and dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C.JAYATHILAKA. J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Kwk/=