==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Edirisinghe Arachchige Sripala,

Case No.CA/PHC/192/2003 No. 382/1 Paragoda

BEFORE:

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

A.W.A. Salam, J.,

Theketena

Accused Appellant

Vs

Asst: Commissioner of Agrarian

Services, AGS Officer,

Gampaha

Plaintiff Respondent

Sunil Rajapakse J.,

M.Nizam Kariappar with M.S.M.lyanuliah instd by

M.C.M. Navaz for the Appellant

T.M. Vasantha Abeykoon for the Agrarian

Development Department Assistant Commissioner

10.09.2013

22.10.2013

2

Sunil Rajapakse J.

This is an appeal filed by the Accused Appellant (hereinafter

referred to as lithe Appellant") to set aside the impugned order dated

08.07.2003 of the High Court of Gampaha. Learned Counsel for the

Plaintiff Respondent Respondent at the commencement of the argument

an objection of law was raised as to the maintainability of the said appeal.

When the case was taken up for argument before this Court preliminary

objection was raised on behalf of the Respondent to the effect that the

Court of Appeal does not have the jurisdiction to entertain this appeal in

terms of Article 138(1) read together with Article lS4(b) of the

Constitution. Further the Respondent submitted that the provisions of

the Constitution are subjected to the provisions of Section 9(a) of the High

Court of the Provinces (Special Provisions) Act No. 19 of 1990 which

determine the exercise of appellate jurisdiction from a decision made by a

Provincial High Court in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction.

In this case the Appellant's contention is that the Court of Appeal

has the jurisdiction to hear an appeal against a decision of the High Court

under the provision of Rule 2 of the Court of Appeal (procedure for

3

appeals from High Court) Rules of 1988 and Article 154P(6) of the

Constitution. Rule 2 reads as follows:

IIAny person who shall be dissatisfied with any judgment or final

oider or sentence pronounced by a High Court in the exercise of the

appellate and revisionary jurisdiction vested in it by Article

154P(3)(b) of the Constitution may prefer an appeal to the Court of

Appeal against such judgment for any error in law or on facts .. "

In this regard the learned State Counsel cited Section 9(a) of High

Court of the Provinces (Special Provisions) Act No.19 of 1990 which reads

as follows:

IISubject to the provisions of this Act or any other law any person

aggrieved by a Final Orderl judgmentl decree or sentence of a High

Court established under Article 154P of the Constitution in the

exercise of the appellate jurisdiction vested in it by paragraph (3)(b)

of Article 154P of the Constitution may appeal therefrom to the

Supreme Court."

Further the Respondent contended that the appellant has

preferred this appeal to the wrong forum. After analyzing the

I •

4

submissions made by both parties this Court accept the

Respondentls contention.

In this regard I wish to cite the following authorities

Wlckremasekera Vs Officer in charge, Police Station, Ampara - 2004

1 SLR page 267 where it was held lithe Court of Appeal does not

have appellate jurisdiction in terms of Article 138{1} of the

Constitution read with Article 154{6} in respect of decisions of the

Provincial High Court made in the exercise of its appellate

jurisdiction in respect of appeals from the Provincial High Court set

out in Section 9 of the High Court of the Provinces {Special

Provisions} Act No. 19 of 1990./1

Further in Abeywardena vs Ajith de Silva - 1998 1 SLR page

135, it was held -

liThe cumulative effect of the provisions of Article 154P(3)(b}

154P{6}and Section 9 of Act No. 19 of 1990 is thatl while there is a

right of appeal to the Supreme Court from the Orders etc'l of the

High Court established by Article 154P of the Constitution in the

exercise of the appellate jurisdiction vested in it by Articled

r • I

5

lS4P(3)(b) or Section 3 of Act No. 19 of 1990 or any other law there

is no right of appeal to the Supreme Court from the orders in the

exercise of the Revisionary jurisdiction.

Applying the principles laid down in the above judicial

decisions, the Court uphold the preliminary objection raised by the

Respondent.

Therefore, I am of the view that this Court has no jurisdiction

to hear this appeal.

For the aforesaid reasons, the Appeal is dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

Salam J.,

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal