==== BLOCKS ==== 

CA/HCC/0205/2013

1 | P a g e

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an Appeal in terms of Section

331 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act

No. 15 of 1979.

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Complainant

Vs

Macklinkan Fernando alias Robin

Accused

AND NOW BETWEEN

Macklinkan Fernando alias Robin

Accused -Appellant

Vs

Hon. Attorney General,

Attorney General’s Department,

Colombo 12.

Complainant-Respondent

Court of Appeal Case No: CA/ HCC/0205/2013

High Court of Panadura Case No: 1711/2003

CA/HCC/0205/2013

2 | P a g e

Before : P. Kumararatnam, J.

Pradeep Hettiarachchi, J.

Counsel : Indika Mallawarachchy with K. Abeyratne Dias for the Accused-

Appellant

: Azard Navai, A.S.G for the Complainant-Respondent

Argued on : 03.06.2026

Decided on : 06.08.2026

Pradeep Hettiarachchi, J

Judgment

1. The Accused-Appellant (hereinafter referred to as “the Appellant”) was indicted

before the High Court of Panadura on the count of murder of one Deepa Dilani

Wellala, an offence punishable under Section 296 of the Penal Code.

2. Upon the election made by the Appellant for a trial without a jury, the trial against him

commenced and proceeded before the Learned Judge of the High Court of Panadura.

During the trial, the prosecution led evidence of several lay witnesses as well as of

official witnesses, including that of two Judicial Medical Officers and a Government

Analyst.

3. When the Trial Court called for the defence, the Appellant made a statement from the

dock.

4. In delivering his judgment, the Learned High Court Judge convicted the Appellant of

murder, and the Appellant was accordingly sentenced to death.

CA/HCC/0205/2013

3 | P a g e

5. It is against the said conviction and sentence that the Appellant has preferred the

present appeal.

6. The prosecution's case was entirely based on circumstantial evidence. The principal

contention advanced by the Appellant is that the circumstantial evidence adduced at

the trial does not give rise to the only irresistible inference of the Appellant’s guilt and,

therefore, falls short of the standard required to sustain a conviction.

7. Since the prosecution case is founded entirely on circumstantial evidence, it is

necessary to highlight the relevant items of evidence that were presented by the

prosecution before the Trial Court.

8. The alleged incident occurred on 21.05.1992 at the matrimonial home of the deceased.

The deceased was found burnt to death inside a motor vehicle belonging to her

husband, with her body discovered on the driver’s seat. At the initial stage, the death

was treated as having resulted from an accidental fire, and the body was accordingly

buried. Subsequently, upon a complaint lodged by the deceased’s father, the CID

commenced an investigation into the incident. Pursuant to that investigation, the body

of the deceased was exhumed, and further investigations were carried out.

9. The deceased was the wife of the accused, and they resided together at the matrimonial

home. At the time of the incident, the deceased, the accused, and their son were present

at the house. The motor vehicle in which the deceased was found had been parked in

the garage for repairs and was ordinarily used by the accused.

10. Since there were no eyewitnesses to the commission of the offence, the prosecution

relied entirely on circumstantial evidence to prove the charge against the Appellant.

11. Accordingly, the Court must consider whether the evidence adduced by the

prosecution is sufficient to lead the only reasonable and irresistible inference of the

Appellant’s guilt, and whether such evidence is inconsistent with any other reasonable

inference consistent with the Appellant’s innocence.

CA/HCC/0205/2013

4 | P a g e

12. The Appellant’s principal contention is that the circumstantial evidence led by the

prosecution does not give rise to the only reasonable and irresistible inference of his

guilt; it would be appropriate to examine the legal principles applicable to the

evaluation of circumstantial evidence in criminal trials.

13. In King vs. Gunarathne, 47 NLR 145, it was held that;

“In a case of circumstantial evidence, the facts given in evidence may, taken

cumulatively, be sufficient to rebut the presumption of innocence, although each

fact, when taken separately, may be a circumstance only of suspicion.

The jury is entitled to draw inferences unfavorable to an accused where he is not

called to establish an innocent explanation of evidence given by the prosecution,

which, without such explanation, tells for his guilt.”

14. In Don Sunny vs. Attorney General [1998] (2) Sri. L.R. 1, it was held that;

1. When a charge is sought to be proved by circumstantial evidence the proved items

of circumstantial evidence when taken together must irresistibly point towards the

only inference that the accused committed the offence.

On a consideration of all the evidence the only inference that can be arrived at

should be consistent with the guilt of the accused only.

2. If on a consideration of the items of circumstantial evidence if an inference can be

drawn which is consistent with the innocence of the accused, then one cannot say

that the charges have been proved beyond reasonable doubt.

3. If upon a consideration of the proved items of circumstantial evidence if the only

inference that can be drawn is that the accused committed the offence then they can

be found guilty.

The prosecution must prove that no one else other than the accused had the

opportunity of committing the offence, the accused can be found guilty only and only

if the proved items of circumstantial evidence is consistent with their guilt and

inconsistent with their innocence.

CA/HCC/0205/2013

5 | P a g e

15. In Krishantha De Silva vs. The Attorney General [2003] (1) Sri. L.R, 162, it was held

inter alia that;

“Circumstantial evidence can be acted upon only if from the circumstances relied

upon the only reasonable inference to draw is the inference of guilt. If the

circumstances are consistent both with guilt and with innocence then the case is not

proved on circumstantial evidence.”

Per Edirisuriya, J.

“The hypothesis of innocence must be excluded by the circumstance relied upon and

the circumstances must point to one conclusion alone, i.e. the guilt of the accused"

16. In Premawansha vs. Attorney General (2009) 2 Sri. L.R. 205, it was held that;

“In a case of circumstantial evidence if an inference of guilt is to be drawn, such an

inference must be the one and only irresistible and inescapable conclusion that the

accused committed the offence.”

17. When considering a case founded on circumstantial evidence, the Court must bear in

mind that the prosecution is required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the

circumstances established at trial point precisely to the guilt of the accused. The

circumstantial evidence must be consistent only with the hypothesis of guilt and

inconsistent with any other reasonable hypothesis, including that of innocence.

18. At this point, I wish to set out the rules outlined in the case of Junaiden Mohamed

Haaris vs. Hon. Attorney General (SC Appeal 118-2017) decided on 9.11.2018 by

Justice Aluwihare, which are as follows;

“1) The inference sought to be drawn must be consistent with all the proved facts, if

it is not, then the inference cannot be drawn.

2) The proved facts should be such that they exclude every reasonable inference from

them, save the one to be drawn. If they do not exclude other reasonable inferences,

then there must be a doubt whether the inference sought to be drawn is correct (per

CA/HCC/0205/2013

6 | P a g e

Watermeyer J. in R v Blom 1939 A.D.188). The rule regarding the exclusion of every

hypothesis of innocence before drawing the inference of guilt was laid down way back

in 1838 in the case of R vs Hodges 1838 2 Lew, cc.227). The circumstances must be

such as to produce moral certainty to the exclusion of every reasonable doubt.” In

the same judgment further reference has been made to the definition of circumstantial

evidence in the book by E. R. S. R. Coomarswamy “The Law of Evidence” where it

has stated as follows, “The chain or strand of proved facts and circumstances must

be so complete that no link in it is missing. If any vital factor which is necessary to

make the chain or strand complete is missing or has remained unproved, it must be

held that the prosecution has failed to establish its case. A vital link should never be

inferred.”

19. With these legal principles in mind, I shall proceed to consider the present appeal.

20. PW2, Malathi Perea, was the first witness to testify for the prosecution. She is a sister

of the deceased. According to PW2, on the day of the incident, she received a telephone

call from the sister of the accused requesting her to come to the deceased’s house,

stating that the deceased’s hand had been burnt. The call was received at approximately

9.30 p.m. Upon receiving the call, PW2 proceeded to the deceased’s house together

with her husband. When she arrived at the house, several people had gathered there,

and police officers were also present.

21. PW2 was informed that the deceased had been taken to the hospital due to burns

sustained to her hand. She testified that the members of the accused’s family were not

present at the house at that time. However, she observed the accused lying on the floor

in a sleeping position. PW2 then inquired from the accused as to the whereabouts of

the deceased, but the accused did not disclose any information regarding the death of

the deceased. Subsequently, PW2’s husband informed her that the deceased had

already passed away.

22. PW2 further testified that she was informed that the deceased had died after being

trapped inside the car when their son had lit a ground spinner (බඹර චක්‍රයක්), which

had allegedly caused the fire.

CA/HCC/0205/2013

7 | P a g e

23. Following the death of the deceased, a complaint was made to the CID raising

suspicion regarding the circumstances surrounding her death.

24. During the examination-in-chief, it was elicited from PW2 that the relationship

between the deceased and the accused was not a harmonious one. PW2 testified that

the deceased had expressed certain difficulties relating to her married life, although

she did not openly disclose the details of those difficulties. PW2 further testified that

the deceased had been facing financial difficulties as well. This evidence suggests that

there were issues affecting the matrimonial relationship between the deceased and the

accused.

“ප්‍ර: ඔබගේ සග ෝදරිය ඔබත් එක්ක ඔවුන්ගේ විවා ජීවිතය සම්බන්දගයන් යම්යම් කරුණු

ප්‍රකාශ කර තිගයනවද?

උ: එග ම එය කියන්ගන් නැ ැ. ගමානවත් ඇහුවට කියන්ගන් නැ ැ. ගකලින්ම උත්තර

ගදන්ගන් නැ ැ. අපිට ගේනවා එය දුකින් ඉන්නවා කියලා. මම මගේ වුවමනාවට කර ගත්ු

නිසා මම ඉවසනවා කියල කියනවා.

ප්‍ර: ඇය දුකින් ඉන්නවා කියල අද ස් කගේ කුමක්ද?

උ: එයට ආර්ථික ප්‍රශ්න ගමානවා රි තිබුණා.” (at vide page 148 of the Appeal Brief)

25. Further, it was revealed in evidence that the deceased did not know how to drive and

did not possess a driving license at any time prior to her death. This circumstance gives

rise to a question as to the reason for the deceased being inside the said vehicle at the

time of the incident.

“ප්‍ර: ඔබගේ සග ෝදරියට රිය පැදවීගම් ැකියාවක් තිගයනවද?

උ: බැ ැ.

ප්‍ර: කිසියම් ග ෝ දිනයක ඇය රිය පදවනවා ඔබ දැක තිගබනවද?

උ: නැ ැ.

ප්‍ර: ඇයට රියදුරු බලපත්‍රයක් තිගයනවද?

උ: නැ ැ.” (at vide page 171 of the Appeal Brief)

26. The defence marked certain contradictions in the evidence of PW2. It was suggested

that, in her statement to the police, PW2 had stated that the accused inquired of her as

CA/HCC/0205/2013

8 | P a g e

to the whereabouts of the deceased. However, during cross-examination, PW2 testified

that she did not remember whether the accused had spoken to her at that time. “මා

සමග ගසේලම් කල දිලූ ගකෝ කියා ඇසුවා.” (2D1, marked in evidence at vide page 178

of the Appeal Brief)

27. The defence further highlighted that PW2 stated in her evidence that she did not speak

with the mother of the accused. However, in her police statement, PW2 had stated that

she was informed by the mother of the accused that the car had caught fire while the

son of the deceased was attempting to light firecrackers. “ගරාබින්ලාගේ අම්මා කිව්වා.”

(2D2, marked in evidence at vide page 180 of the Appeal Brief)

28. It is significant to note that the said contradictions marked by the defence do not go to

the root of the matter. The said contradictions are minor and relate only to peripheral

matters that do not materially affect the reliability of her evidence.

29. The next witness called on behalf of the prosecution was PW3, Ajith Rohana, the

brother of the deceased. According to PW3, on the day of the incident, he received

information from his cousin sister that the deceased was in a distressed condition at

about 11.00 p.m. Upon receiving that information, PW3 informed his parents and other

siblings and proceeded to the house of the deceased.

30. When PW3 arrived at the scene, PW2, her husband, several relatives, and police

officers were present at the house. PW3 testified that he met the accused inside his

room and observed that the accused appeared to be frightened. The persons gathered

at the house informed PW3 that the deceased had been taken to the hospital following

a burning incident.

31. PW3 further testified that he was subsequently informed that the son of the deceased

had ignited a firecracker while the deceased was inside the vehicle, and that the vehicle

had caught fire due to petrol contained therein.

32. Further, PW3 testified that the death of the deceased was suspicious in nature. He

testified that, considering the age of the deceased’s son, who was only four years old

at the time, it was unlikely that the child could have independently ignited a firecracker

CA/HCC/0205/2013

9 | P a g e

in a manner that resulted in the vehicle catching fire. PW3 also stated that the accused

had not made any apparent attempt to rescue the deceased from the burning vehicle.

33. PW3 further testified that, following the incident, the accused appeared reluctant to

face the family members of the deceased and that his conduct gave rise to suspicion.

According to PW3, the subsequent conduct of the accused after the incident appeared

inconsistent with the conduct expected of an ordinary person and raised concerns

regarding his involvement in the circumstances surrounding the death of the deceased.

“………………………

ප්‍ර: එවිටවත් ඇසුගව් නැද්ද ගමාකද වුගන් කියා?

උ: එයා යම්කිසි ගදයක් සගවන බව ැගුනා. ඒ නිසා කිසි ගදයක් අ න්න ගිගේ නැ ැ.” (at

vide page 237 of the Appeal Brief)

34. The aforesaid circumstances, when considered cumulatively in their proper

perspective, provide a strong indication of the involvement of the Appellant in the

commission of the said offence. The suspicious circumstances surrounding the death

of the deceased, the improbability of the explanation involving the 4-year-old child,

and the subsequent conduct of the Appellant after the alleged incident collectively

form part of the chain of circumstances pointing towards the guilt of the Appellant.

These circumstances are inconsistent with the innocence of the Appellant and exclude

the possibility of the involvement of any other person in the commission of the offence.

35. The next witness called on behalf of the prosecution was PW13, George Martinans,

who was an employee of the factory owned by the accused. According to PW13, on

the day of the incident, he was informed by another employee that the deceased had

been trapped inside the vehicle while it was on fire. Upon receiving that information,

PW13 proceeded to the scene, where he observed that police officers and several other

persons were present.

36. PW13 further testified that, approximately one month prior to the incident, the said

vehicle had been damaged after being struck by a lorry. Thereafter, the accused had

instructed PW13 to remove the petrol from the vehicle, place a portion of it in a

motorcycle, and store the remaining petrol in containers. However, PW13 was unable

CA/HCC/0205/2013

10 | P a g e

to identify the containers in which the petrol had been stored, owing to the lapse of a

considerable period of time. Further, the containers produced at the trial had been

damaged due to the heat generated by the fire and, therefore, could not be identified

by PW13.

37. PW13 testified that, after the vehicle was damaged, it was not used by anyone. He

further testified that, following the incident, he observed the body of the deceased

inside the vehicle.

38. Another witness called on behalf of the prosecution was PW16, who was also an

employee of the factory owned by the accused. PW16 resided in accommodation

provided for employees near the factory premises, which was situated within the same

premises where the matrimonial home of the accused and the deceased was located.

39. According to PW16, on the day of the incident, he and some of the other employees

had gone to a nearby shop when they heard a sound resembling an explosion. Upon

returning to the premises, he observed that the vehicle was on fire and that the deceased

was inside the vehicle. PW16 further testified that the accused was attempting to

extinguish the fire by using a wooden stick. The manner in which the accused

attempted to respond to the incident was relied upon as a circumstance requiring

consideration, as such conduct appeared unusual in the circumstances.

“ප්‍ර: ගමාකක්ද කගේ, ගකායි වගේද කගේ වුර ග ෝ ගගනත් තිබුනද, ගදාර අරින්න උත්සා

කලද, ගමාකක්ද උත්සා කලා කියන්ගන්. අයිගයෝ අයිගයෝ කිව්වා විතරයිද?

උ: ලීයක් වගේ එකක් අගත් තියා ගගන කෑ ග ග සිටියා.

ප්‍ර: ලීයකින් ගින්නක් නිවන්න පුලුවන්ද?

උ: ඒ ගවලාගව් එග ම එකක් අගත් තියාගගන දිව්ගව්.” (at vide page 393 of the Appeal

Brief)

40. Evidently, there was a tap connected to a hose inside the garage where the vehicle had

been parked. If that were so, why did the Appellant not attempt to extinguish the fire

by using water instead of striking the vehicle with a stick? This circumstance casts

serious doubt on the Appellant's conduct. Had he genuinely intended to put out the

CA/HCC/0205/2013

11 | P a g e

fire, he could easily have used the hose connected to the tap for that purpose. His

subsequent conduct further suggests that he had no genuine intention of extinguishing

the fire but merely pretended to do so.

41. However, PW16 did not witness the manner in which the vehicle caught fire or the

circumstances that led to the fire. It is also significant to note that, in his examination-

in-chief, PW16 testified that he was at a nearby shop at the material time. However,

during cross-examination, he stated that he was in his room at the relevant time.

42. Although certain inconsistencies were identified in the evidence of PW16 regarding

his presence in the room or at a nearby shop at the material time, such contradictions,

by themselves, do not provide a basis to infer that the employees were responsible for

the commission of the offence in the absence of any further incriminating

circumstances connecting them with the incident.

43. With regard to the possibility of the involvement of a third party in the commission of

the offence, there is no evidence placed before the Trial Court to suggest that any of

the employees residing within the same premises had any motive or reason to commit

such an offence. Further, there was no evidence to establish that they had the

opportunity to gain access to the matrimonial home or the garage where the vehicle

was parked at the material time. The mere fact that the employees were present within

the same land does not, by itself, give rise to a reasonable inference of their

involvement in the commission of the offence.

44. At the trial before the High Court, the prosecution primarily relied upon the evidence

of PW19, the Judicial Medical Officer (JMO), who conducted the second post-mortem

examination of the deceased. At the time PW19 conducted the second post-mortem

examination, the deceased’s body had already been subjected to an earlier post-

mortem examination. The second post-mortem examination was conducted after the

body was exhumed.

45. According to the testimony of PW19, he observed a diffuse contusion in addition to

the injuries recorded during the first post-mortem examination. He identified this as

injury No.6, which was situated on the ankle of the right leg of the deceased. Apart

CA/HCC/0205/2013

12 | P a g e

from this injury, PW19 did not observe any other suspicious injuries on the body of

the deceased.

46. PW19 further opined that the said injury could have been caused when the leg of the

deceased became trapped between the door and the seat of the vehicle.

“ප්‍ර: එම ගකාටගස් 2 ස 3 වශගයන් ගේද ගදකක් තිගයනවා.

උ: එග මයි. මා දක්වා තිගයනවා 2 වැනි ගේදගේ ප රදීමක් වැනි සාපරාධි ක්‍රියාවකින් ඇති

වූ ුවාල ගනාමැති බව. 3 වැනි ගේදගේ තිගයනවා දකුණු කකුගේ තැලීම් ුවාලයක්.

පුද්ගලගයකුගේ කකුල ෂිට් එකට ස ගදාරට තදින් තදවීගමන් ගමම ුවාලය ගවන්න

පුළුවන්.” (at vide page 303 of the Appeal Brief)

47. PW19 further testified as to the possible manner in which the said diffuse contusion

could have been caused as follows;

“ප්‍ර: ඒ තැලීම ගමාන විදියට ඇතිවිය ැකිද?

උ: පුද්ගලගයක් වාඩි ගවන ගකාට කකුල සම්පුර්ථණගයන් ඇුේ කිරීමට ගපර ගදාර

වැහුගවාත් එම ුවාලය කකුගේ ඇති ගවන්න පුළුවන්. ඒ අවස්ථාගව්දී කකුල සීට් එකටයි

ගදාරටයි තදින් තදගවනවා.

ප්‍ර: දකුණු කකුල

උ: එග මයි.

ප්‍ර: වා නයට නැගලා ගදාරට තද ගවන්න ඇත්ගත් ඔය සිද්ධිය ගවන්න ගපරද?

උ: ඔව්.

ප්‍ර: ඔබට මතයක් ඉදිරිපත් කරන්න පුලුවන්ද පුද්ගලගයක් ව නගයන් බහින්න යන ගකාට

බහින්න කලින් යම්කිසි ගකගනක් ව නගයන් පිටතින් ගදාර තදින් තද කළග ාත් තැලීම

සිදු ගවන්න පුලුවන්ද?

උ: පුළුවන්.” (at vide pages 307-308 of the Appeal Brief)

48. The next witness called on behalf of the prosecution was PW4, Muyurial Wellala, the

sister-in-law of the deceased. PW4 testified that approximately three days prior to the

incident, while she was at the beach with her children, she observed the accused

walking along the beach holding hands with another woman.

CA/HCC/0205/2013

13 | P a g e

“ප්‍ර: ඒ ඩිලානි මිය යන්න දවස් කීයකට කලින්ද?

උ: දවස් 3 ක් පමණ ඉරිදාවක. ඉරිදට තමයි යන්ගන්.

………………..

ප්‍ර: ම ත්මිය ඒ අවස්ථාගව්දී විත්තිකරුව දැක්කද?

උ: ඒ අවස්ථාගව්දී තවත් කාන්තාවක් සමග අතින් අේලාගගන එනවා දැක්කා.

ප්‍ර: කවුද එම තැනැත්තිය සමග අතින් අේලාගගන ආගව්?

උ: විත්තිකරු.

උ: ගකාග දිද දැක්ගක් ?

ප්‍ර: ගවරගළ් ඇවිදගගන එනවා දැක්ගක්.” (at vide page 322 of the Appeal Brief)

49. PW4 further testified that, after observing this incident, she contacted the deceased and

inquired about the whereabouts of the accused. The deceased informed PW4 that the

accused had not yet returned home and that he had gone out in connection with his

business activities.

“ප්‍ර: සවස 5.30 ට විතර ඩිලානිට ගකෝේ එකක් දීලා ගරාබින් ගකෝ කියාද ඇසුගව්?

උ: ඔව්.

ප්‍ර: ඩිලානි ගමාකක්ද කියා සිටිගේ?

උ: බිස්නස් වැඩකට ගිය බවටත්, තම ගගදර ආගව් නැති බවටත් කියා සිටියා.” (at vide

page 326 of the Appeal Brief)

50. The evidence of PW4 regarding the conduct of the accused and the circumstances

prevailing in the matrimonial relationship between the accused and the deceased

provides a possible circumstance relevant to the motive for the commission of the

offence.

51. It should be noted that in a prosecution presented on items of circumstantial evidence,

the evidence relating to a possible motive on the part of the Appellant also assumes a

greater significance than in a case presented on direct evidence.

52. This position was explained in Hethambi Prabakaran alias Kumara vs. Attorney

General SC Appeal No. 169/2019, decided on 30.01.2026, Achala Wengappuli, J.,

held as follows;

CA/HCC/0205/2013

14 | P a g e

“But in a prosecution presented on the basis of several items of circumstantial

evidence and its cumulative effect on the decision to impose of criminal liability on

an accused, any evidence that tends to show a motive entertained by the accused

becomes an important link in the chain of circumstances that supports the

prosecution case.”

“In this context, it is important to inquire in to the question whether the prosecution

presented any evidence indicative of a possible motive entertained by the 1st

accused as well as the 4th accused, who were last seen in the company of the

deceased, to commit the latter’s murder.”

53. In view of those factors, it could be reasonably inferred that the Appellant was

motivated to commit the murder of the deceased in order to get rid of her.

54. Accordingly, in the present case, the evidence placed before the Trial Court established

circumstances from which a motive on the part of the accused to commit the offence

could reasonably be inferred. The evidence relating to the strained matrimonial

relationship between the Appellant and the deceased, together with the other

surrounding circumstances, including the medical evidence and scientific evidence,

forms an integral part of the chain of circumstantial evidence established against the

Appellant. The cumulative effect of these circumstances strengthens the inference that

the death of the deceased was not the result of an accident or suicide, but was caused

by the deliberate act of the Appellant.

55. PW4 further testified that, approximately two to three months prior to the incident, she

observed that the deceased was not happy with her married life. According to PW4,

from her conversations with the deceased, she understood that the deceased was not

living happily with the accused. This evidence indicates the existence of difficulties

and disagreements between the deceased and the accused prior to the incident.

“ප්‍ර: විත්තිකරු ස ඩිලානි ගකායි වගේ පවුේ ජිවිතයක් ගත කල බවටද ම ත්මිය දැනගගන

සිටිගේ?

උ: එයා සමග කතා කලාම ගත්ගරනවා එයා ඒ තරම් සුටින් ඉන්ගන් නැති බවට.

ප්‍ර: කවුද සුටින් ඉන්ගන් නැත්ගත්?

CA/HCC/0205/2013

15 | P a g e

උ: ඩිලානි.

ප්‍ර: ඒ මිය යාමට ගකාපමණ විතර කාලයකට ගපරද?

උ: මාස ගදක ුනකට ගපර.” (at vide page 327 of the Appeal Brief)

“……………….

උ: ගපාඩි ප්‍රශ්නයක් තිගයනවා. මම කරගත්ු ගද්වේ නිසා, මම ඔක්ගකාම විදගගන

ඉන්නවා කියා කිව්වා.” (at vide page 328 of the Appeal Brief)

56. PW4 further testified that, following the incident, the accused was reluctant to face the

family members of the deceased. This evidence is relevant to the subsequent conduct

of the accused after the incident.

“ප්‍ර: දැන් ඔය මරණගයන් පස්ගස් විත්තිකරු ගකාග ාමද ැසිරුගන්?

උ: එයා හිටිගේ බියගලුකමට. එයා දන්නවාගන් එයා වැරදි වැගේ කගේ කියල. මට හිගතන

විදියට මගේ දැනීගම් ැටියට.

ප්‍ර: බියගලුකමකින් හිටිය කියලා ඔබ අද ස් කරන්ගන් ගමාකක්ද?

උ: ගකලින් මුහුණ ගදන්න බෑ වගේ නිකම් සිටිගේ.” (at vide pages 335-336 of the

Appeal Brief)

57. Another material witness called on behalf of the prosecution was PW45, JMO, who

had conducted the initial post-mortem examination and prepared the first post-mortem

report of the deceased.

58. According to the testimony of PW45, in addition to the extensive burn injuries

sustained by the deceased, a diffuse contusion was observed on the ankle of her right

leg. PW45 opined that the said injury was consistent with a blunt force impact.

“ප්‍ර: එකී පිළිස්සීම සම්බන්ද ුවාල වලට අමතරව ව්‍වෛදුමා තවත් ුවාල නිරීක්ෂණය

කරලද?

උ: එග මයි.

ප්‍ර: ඒ කුමන ුවාලද?

උ: දකුණු කකුගේ ප ල ගකාටගස් ඉදිරිපස ස ඇුේ පැත්තට වන්නට සමට යටින් වූ

තැලුම් ුවාල දක්නට ලැබුන.

………………..

CA/HCC/0205/2013

16 | P a g e

ප්‍ර: එම ුවාල ගමාන ආකාරගයන්ද ඇති ගවන්ගන් ?

උ: ගමාට බලයක් නිසා ඇති ගවන්න පුළුවන්.” (at vide page 426 of the Appeal Brief)

59. PW45 further testified that the said diffuse contusion on the deceased’s right ankle

could have been sustained if her leg had become trapped while she was attempting to

alight from the vehicle during the fire and the door was then forcibly closed from the

outside.

“ප්‍ර: ඒ අනුව ව නයක් ුලදී ගමම සිද්ධිය සිදු වුන නම් දකුණු කකුල තමා නිරීක්ෂණය කර

තිගබන්ගන්. එය ව නගයන් බැසිගම්දී ග ෝ නැගීගම්දී ගමවැනි තත්වයක් ඇති වීමට

ැකියාවක් තිගබනවද?

උ: තිගබනවා.

ප්‍ර: ගිනි ගැනීම ඇුළු වූ අවත්තගව්දී ම එලියට බැසීම සද ා කකුල එලියට දැමීගමන් එය

සිදු විය ැකිය.” (at vide page 435 of the Appeal Brief)

60. PW45 further opined that the injury was unlikely to have been self-inflicted.

Accordingly, PW45 expressed the opinion that the said injury could not have been

self-inflicted by the deceased and was consistent with having been inflicted by another

person from outside the vehicle.

“ප්‍ර: කාර්ථ එකට නගිද්දී සිදු වූ ගදයක්ද?

උ: දකුණු කකුල එලියට දමා ගගන සිටියදී ගම් ආකාරගේ ුවාලයක් සිදු වන්න පුළුවන්

පිටින් කවුරු ග ෝ ගදාර ව න්න ඕන.

ප්‍ර: එගස් නම් ගදාර ව න්න පුළුවන් තත්වයක් තිබුනද?

උ: එළිගයන් කවුරු ග ෝ ගදාර තදින් වැසුගවාත් ගමය සිදුගවනවා. ඇුළු පැත්ගතන් ස

පිට පැත්ගතන් ුවාල තිබුන.

ප්‍ර: කාරයට නගිද්දී සාමානෛගයන් පුද්ගලගයකුගේ දකුණු පස කකුල අසුගවනවා

එගතාගකාට ගදාර ව න්න පුලුවන්ද?

උ: ගමාලයට තේලු කිරීමට ප්‍රතීකයක් එවනවා.

ප්‍ර: ඒ එක්කම ගදාර වැසීගම් තත්වයක් සිදු ගවනවද?

උ: සිතන්න බැ ැ.” (at vide pages 435-436 of the Appeal Brief)

CA/HCC/0205/2013

17 | P a g e

61. JMO further opined that based on the pattern and distribution of the burn injuries, the

deceased was either seated or had crawled onto the seat at the time of the incident. He

further expressed the opinion that the fire had most likely originated from the right

side of the deceased’s body. Moreover, the JMO opined that, having regard to the burn

injuries, the fire had most likely originated from the upper part of the vehicle rather

than from its lower part.

“ප්‍ර: විනිසුරුුමිය ප්‍රශ්න කල ආකාරයට ගින්න අරම්භවීම සම්බන්ධගයන් නැවත වතාවක්

පැ ැදිලි කරන්න පුළුවන් ද?

උ: ුවාල තිගබන තත්වය අනුව දකුණු පසින් තමයි ගින්න ආරම්භ වීමට වැඩි ප්‍රවනතාවක්

තිගබන්ගන්. ගින්න ආරම්භවීම මගින් දැඩි උෂ්ණත්වයක් ස පිළිස්සීම් ඇති ගවන්ගන්.

පිළිස්සීම් වැඩිපුර දක්නට ලැගබන්ගන් ශරීරගේ දකුණු පසින්. දකුණු පසින් ගිනි ගැනීගම්

ැකියාවක් තිගබනවා.” (at vide page 431 of the Appeal Brief)

62. During cross-examination, PW45 explained that, having regard to the nature of the

burn injuries, the possibility of the death being suicidal was less likely. He opined that,

in a case of self-inflicted fire injuries, a greater extent of burns would ordinarily be

expected on the lower parts of the body. However, in the present case, the majority of

the burn injuries were observed on the upper part of the body of the deceased,

particularly on her hands.

“ප්‍ර: යම්කිසි ගකගනක් දිවි නසා ගැනීමට, තමන්ගේ ශරීරයට තමන් විසින්ම ගිනි තබා

ගැනීගම්දී යම්කිසි ද්‍රාවණයක් ඇගට වත් කරගගන ගිනි තිය ගත්ගතාත් ගම් ආකාරගේ

ුවාල සිදු විය ැකිද ?

උ: සාමානෛගයන් ගපට්‍රේ වැනි ද්‍රාවණයක් තමයි ගිනි තබා ගැනීගම්දී වක් කර ගන්ගන්.

එගස් වක් කර ගගන ගිනි තියා ගත්තා නම් ඒ ද්‍රාවනය වැඩිපුර සාන්ද්‍රණය වන නිසා ඉ ලට

වඩා ප ල ප්‍රගද්ශයට පිළිස්සීමක් දකිනවා.” (at vide page 444 of the Appeal Brief)

63. The JMO explained that there was a lesser possibility of the contusion on the right

ankle of the deceased having been caused while she was struggling inside the vehicle

after the fire had commenced. He opined that such an injury was unlikely to have

occurred due to movements inside the vehicle during the incident.

CA/HCC/0205/2013

18 | P a g e

“ප්‍ර: කකුගේ ුවාලය වා නය ඇුගේ දගලිගම්දී ඇති වූ ුවාල ද කියලා ඇහුව?

උ: එගස් වීමට ැකියාව ඉතාම අඩුයි.” (at vide page 453 of the Appeal Brief)

64. The next important witness called on behalf of the prosecution was PW46,

Government Analyst. According to the description given by PW46 regarding the items

inside the vehicle which had been affected by the fire, the relevant observations were

as follows;

“ප්‍ර: එම අභෛන්තරගේ පිළිස්සුනු ගකාටස් සම්බන්ධගයන් විස්තර කිරීමට පුලුවන්ද?

උ: පුළුවන්. ඊට වඩා නිරීක්ෂණය කර තිගබනවා. එහි ඇුලත වා නගේ පිටුපස ආසනය

දැවී ගගාස් ඇති බව. එම ආසනය තනි ආසනයක්. එම ආසන ගදගකහි සිරස් ගකාටස

සම්පුර්ථණගයන්ම ස වාඩිගවන තිරස් ගකාටස් අර්ථධ ගලස දැවී තිගබන බවට ගපනී ගියා.

එහි ඉදිරිපස දකුණු සුක්කානම ස මීටරය සහිත පැනලය දැවී ඇති බව, පිටුපස සුළං

ආවරණගේ විදුරුව නැති බව, ඉදිරිපස සුළං ආවරණගේ විදුරු ගකාටසක් පමණක් දැවී ඇති

බව, එහි ඇුලත ගලෝ මය බිම් ත ඩුව ගනාදැවී තිබුණු බව ා ඒ මත සුන්බුන් වල අඩක්

දැවී උණු වී ගිය රු පාට ස ක පාට ේලාස්ටික් භාජන ගදකක් පිටුපසද, සුදු පාට ේලාස්ටික්

භාජනයක් ඉදිරි වම් පසද තිබුන. ඒවායින් ගපට්‍රේ වාෂ්ප ව නය වූ බවට.” (at vide page

674 of the Appeal Brief)

65. According to the observations made by PW46, three plastic containers were found

inside the vehicle. One of those containers was placed near the left side front seat,

while the other two containers were found near the rear seat of the vehicle.

66. According to PW46, the fire had not originated due to an electrical short circuit or any

mechanical defect in the vehicle. Therefore, the possibility of the fire being caused

accidentally due to a technical malfunction of the vehicle could be excluded.

67. PW46 further opined that the fire had originated from the right-side back seat of the

vehicle.

“ප්‍ර: ඒ ගකාතනින්ද ගින්න ඇති වී තිබුගන්?

උ: ඇුගේ දකුණු පිටුපස ආසනය අසල. ගපාලව උඩ ගනාගව් ආසනය අසල.” (at vide

page 680 of the Appeal Brief)

CA/HCC/0205/2013

19 | P a g e

68. According to PW46, three cans containing petrol were found inside the vehicle, one

positioned near the front seat and the other two positioned near the back seat. PW46

further opined that the can located near the right-side back seat was in an open

condition at the time of the incident.

“ප්‍ර: ඔය කෑන් එක දුනාගන්ගන් ගපට්‍රේ තිබුණු විධියට?

උ: අපි ගදන්න සුවද ව නය කළා. ගමයින් තමා ගින්න ආරම්භ කළා කියා සිටි සිමාගව්

තිබුන කෑන් එක. පිටුපස දකුණු පැත්ගත්.

ප්‍ර: එගතාගකාට නිගමනය කරන්ගන් එහි ගපට්‍රේ සුවද ව නය වුන. එහි ගපට්‍රේ තිබුන කෑන්

එකක් කියල මුඩිය රහිත?

උ: මුඩිය රහිත ගපට්‍රේ තිබුණු කෑන් එකක්.” (at vide page 684 of the Appeal Brief)

69. The manner in which the petrol cans were placed inside the vehicle is also indicative

of prior planning. According to the evidence, one can was placed in the front of the

vehicle and two in the rear. If, as suggested by the defence, the fuel tank had been

emptied for repair, the cans could reasonably have been kept in the boot of the vehicle

instead of being distributed at various locations inside it. This circumstance further

militates against the defence theory of an accidental fire and supports the conclusion

that the incident was not accidental.

70. In view of the evidence of PW46, a question arises as to the reason why the said petrol

can was in an open condition at the material time. If the can had remained open for a

considerable period, the petrol contained therein would have evaporated. Therefore,

the condition of the can gives rise to an inference that it had been opened shortly before

the incident.

71. PW46 further opined that the fire had originated from the rear portion of the vehicle.

However, according to the medical evidence, the upper front portion of the body of

the deceased had sustained extensive burn injuries. PW46 explained that, although the

fire originated from the rear of the vehicle, the flames could not have extended beyond

the windscreen area, and this could have resulted in the severe burn injuries observed

on the upper front portion of the body of the deceased.

CA/HCC/0205/2013

20 | P a g e

72. According to the final conclusion reached by PW46, the fire had commenced due to

the introduction of an ignition source inside the vehicle, either intentionally or

accidentally, and thereafter spread rapidly throughout the vehicle.

“උ: ආසනය අසල ඕනෑකමින් ග ෝ අතපසු වීමකින් ග ෝ ගිනි ප්‍රභවයක් මං එකට භාවිතා

කරන්ගන් ජවලන ප්‍රභවයක් කියලා. එවැනි ප්‍රභවයක් ඇුළු වීම නිසා ආරම්භ වී සීග්‍රගයන්

ව නය පුර පැුරුණු එකක් බව ගපනී යනවා.” (at vide page 692 of the Appeal Brief)

73. As stated earlier, the evidence of PW46 was that the fire originated from the rear

portion of the vehicle. If the incident is considered from the perspective of a suicidal

act, the possibility of the deceased initiating the fire from the rear of the vehicle appears

highly unlikely.

74. Further, PW46 observed that, at the time of the incident, all the windows of the vehicle

were closed except for the rear right-side window, which was slightly open.

“ප්‍ර: විදුරු ගකාග ාම තිගයන්න ඇතිද?

උ: වැග න්න ඇති. නමුත් අපි එකක් එතැනදී නිරීක්ෂණය කළා. දකුණු පැත්ගත් පිටි පස්ගස්

ගදාගර්ථ විදුරු තරමක් විවෘතා ගවලා තිගයන්න අගතයි කියල.” (at vide page 693 of the

Appeal Brief)

75. This observation is significant when considered together with the opinion of PW46

that the fire originated from the right rear seat of the vehicle. The fact that the rear

right-side window was slightly open gives rise to a question as to whether an external

source of ignition could have been introduced through that opening while the deceased

was inside the vehicle.

76. PW46 further opined that the fire had originated from an area between the bottom

portion of the vehicle and the seat. He also observed that there were no signs of fire

damage to the ground beneath the vehicle.

77. PW46 firmly stated that the fire had originated from the petrol can placed near the rear

portion of the vehicle, which was found in an open condition at the material time.

CA/HCC/0205/2013

21 | P a g e

“ප්‍ර: කෑන් එගකන් තමයි ගින්න ඇති වුගන්. කෑන් එක පුගේ හිටවලා තිගයද්දී කිසියම්

ගින්නක් දැේවීම නිසා ඔය කෑන් එක විවෘතව තිගයද්දී කිසියම් ගින්නක් දැේවීම නිසා තමයි

ගින්න අරබිලා තිගයන්ගන් කියන එක ගැන කිසිදු සැකයක් නැ ැ?

උ: නැ ැ.” (at vide page 696 of the Appeal Brief)

78. PW46 further excluded the possibility that the fire had been caused by a ground spinner

(බඹර චක්‍රයක්), which was the explanation advanced by the accused as the cause of the

incident.

“ප්‍ර: බඹර චක්‍රයක් කාර්ථ එගක් ගදාගරන් ඇුේ ගවලා පිටිපස්සට ගිය නම් ග ෝ කාර්ථ එගක්

ගදාර විවෘත ගවලා තිබුන නම් එයයින් ගමම ගිනි ගැනීම සිදු ගවන්න පුලුවන්ද?

උ: ගදාර විවෘත ගවලා නැ ැ. ගදාර සිදුරු ගවලත් නැ ැ. බඹර චක්‍රයකට ජගන්ලගයන්

ඇුේ ගවන්න පුළුවන් කමක් නැ ැ. බඹර චක්‍රයක්ගපාගළාවට සමාන්තර ගපාගලාව දිගේ

ගිනි පුපුරු දමමින් ගමන් කරන්ගන්. බඹර චක්‍රයක් යි ජම්ේ කරන්ගනත් නැ ැ. ගලෝන්

ජම්ේ කරන්ගනත් නැ ැ.” (at vide pages 704-705 of the Appeal Brief)

79. Further, PW46 ruled out the possibility that the deceased had poured petrol on herself

and committed suicide. He arrived at this opinion upon considering the condition of

the clothes worn by the deceased and the pattern and distribution of the burn injuries

sustained by her.

“ප්‍ර: ගපට්‍රේ ඇගට දැම්ම නම් එවැනි දැවීමක් සිදුගවනවද?

උ: ගමම සාධක ටික ඇදුම් සමග පරික්ෂ කරන විට ඇදුම් අර්ථධ ගලස දැවී තිබුන.

ප්‍ර: ඔලුගවන් වත්කර ගත්තම සම්පුර්ථණගයන්ම පිච්චි යනවද?

උ: ඔව්.

………………………

ප්‍ර: ගම් අයගේ ශරීරගේ ගපට්‍රේ තිබුගන් නැති බවටද කියා සිටින්ගන්?

උ: ඔව්.” (at vide pages 708-709 of the Appeal Brief)

80. PW46 further explained that, having regard to the circumstances surrounding the

incident and the physical evidence observed, the possibility of the deceased having

committed suicide was highly unlikely.

CA/HCC/0205/2013

22 | P a g e

“ප්‍ර: මරණකරු වා නගේ ඉදිරිපස අසුගන් වාඩිගවලා සිටින ගකාට මරණකරුගේ පිටුපස

ආසනයට ආසන්නව තිබු පැ. 05 මුඩිය රහිත ගපට්‍රේ සහිත ගබෝතේ වලට දැවීම සද ා

ප්‍රභවයක් දැරීමට මරණකරුට ැකියාවක් තිගයනවද?

උ: නැ ැ.

ප්‍ර: කිසිම ැකියාවක් නැ ැ?

උ: නැ ැ. (at vide page 710 of the Appeal Brief)

ප්‍ර: ඒ ගපට්‍රේ ඇදුමට දා ගත්තා ගවන්න බැරිද?

උ: එග ම නම් අර්ථධ වශගයන් පිච්චගචන්ගන් නැ ැ. කාලයාගේ ඇවෑගමන් ද නය වන

ඕනෑම ගදයක් ද නය ආරම්භ කලාම වැඩි ගගන යනවා. ඔක්සිජන් ප්‍රතිශතය තිගබන

නිසා.” (at vide page 733 of the Appeal Brief)

81. While assessing the probative strength of the circumstantial evidence relied upon by

the prosecution, I am mindful of the oft-cited observations of Pollock C.B. in Regina

v. Exall at 929, subsequently approved and adopted by Cannon J. in King v.

Gunarathne at 149, which provide valuable guidance on the manner in which courts

should evaluate a chain of circumstantial evidence.

“It has been said that circumstantial evidence is to be considered as a chain, and

each piece of evidence as a link in the chain, but that is not so, for them, if any one

link broke, the chain would fall. It is more like the case of a rope composed of

several cords. One strand of the rope might be insufficient to sustain the weight, but

three stranded together may be quite of sufficient strength.”

82. The Supreme Court of India, in the judgment of Sharad Birdhichand Sarda vs. State

of Maharashtra (1984) 4 SCC 166, laid down a five-point test, which it described as

the “panchasheel of the proof of a case based on circumstantial evidence”, which must

be satisfied before a conviction is entered against an accused in such a case. Paragraph

153 of the said judgment states: “[A] close analysis of this decision would show that

the following conditions must be fulfilled before a case against an accused can be said

to be fully established;

i. the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt should be fully established,

CA/HCC/0205/2013

23 | P a g e

ii. the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt

of the accused, that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other

hypothesis except that the accused is guilty,

iii. the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency,

iv. they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved, and

v. there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable

ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must

show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.”

83. Upon a consideration of the totality of the evidence adduced by the prosecution, it is

apparent that the circumstances established at the trial form a complete and coherent

chain of evidence pointing towards the guilt of the Appellant. The medical evidence

and the evidence of the Government Analyst exclude the possibility that the fire was

caused by a suicidal act or due to any mechanical defect. Further, the explanation

advanced by the Appellant that the fire was caused by a ground spinner (බඹර චක්‍රයක්)

was rendered highly improbable in light of the scientific evidence placed before the

Trial Court.

84. Further, it should be noted that the prosecution evidence clearly ruled out the

possibility of an accidental fire, as suggested by the defence. Accordingly, the only

reasonable inference that could be drawn is that the deceased was forcibly pushed into

the vehicle and the vehicle was deliberately set on fire.

85. The evidence relating to the open petrol can found near the right-side rear seat of the

vehicle, the point of origin of the fire, the suspicious contusion injury on the ankle of

the deceased which was unlikely to have been self-inflicted, together with the possible

motive on the part of the Appellant, constitute significant links in the chain of

circumstantial evidence.

86. Moreover, the Appellant's conduct, both prior to and subsequent to the incident, when

considered together with the expert evidence, admits of no reasonable inference other

CA/HCC/0205/2013

24 | P a g e

than his guilt. Furthermore, there was no evidence whatsoever to suggest the

involvement of any third party in the commission of the offence.

87. When all these factors, that were individually established by different items of

circumstantial evidence, are lined up, it is unquestionable that indeed a strong prima

facie case has been established against the Appellant. Accordingly, it is my view that

the prosecution has succeeded in establishing an unbroken chain of circumstantial

evidence which leads irresistibly to the conclusion that the Appellant is guilty of the

offence of murder beyond a reasonable doubt.

88. It is apparent that the prosecution has established a strong prima facie case against the

Appellant. In such circumstances, the Appellant was required to provide an

explanation capable of addressing the compelling circumstances established against

him by the prosecution, rather than merely denying any involvement in the alleged

incident.

89. This position has been consistently recognized in a long line of authorities;

90. In Seetin and Others vs. The Queen (1965) 68 NLR 316, held as follows;

“[W]here probable proof is brought of a statement of facts tending to criminate the

accused, the absence of evidence tending to a contrary conclusion is to be

considered though not alone entitled to much weight, because the burden of proof

lies on the accuser to make out the whole case by substantive evidence. But when

pretty stringent proof of circumstances is produced tending to support the charge,

and it is apparent that the accused is so situated that he could offer evidence of all

facts and circumstances as they exist, and show, if such was the truth, that the

suspicious circumstances can be accounted for consistently with his innocence and

he fails to offer such proof, the natural conclusion is that the proof, if produced,

instead of rebutting, would tend to sustain the charge.”

91. Accordingly, the expectation of an explanation from an accused, upon a strong prima

facie case being established against him by the prosecution, in terms of the principle

enunciated in the statement of law, what generally termed as Ellenborough dictum, is

CA/HCC/0205/2013

25 | P a g e

neither obnoxious to the long-cherished presumption of innocence nor to his

fundamental right to a fair trial, guaranteed under Article 13(3) of the Constitution.

92. In the present case, the trial court was correct to apply the Ellenborough dictum in

relation to the Appellant, as undoubtedly a strong prima facie case had been

established by the prosecution against him, a factor that justified the expectation of an

explanation entertained by that Court.

93. Upon consideration of the foregoing analysis of law and facts, I find no merit in the

arguments advanced on behalf of the Appellant. Accordingly, there is no basis to

interfere with the judgment of the Learned High Court Judge, and the conviction and

the sentence are affirmed. Accordingly, the appeal is dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

P. Kumararatnam, J.

I agree

Judge of the Court of Appeal