==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA 162/2009

Sapinge Wimalasena alias Bandara

Accused-Appellant

Vs

HC Anuradhapura 82/2005

Before

Counsel

Argued on Decided on

The Attorney Gene_ral.

Sisira de Abrew J & PWDC Jayathilake J

Respondent

Anil Silva PC with NM Saheed and N Godaellawatte for the appellant. Dileepa Peiris SSC for the Respondent.

18.02.2013 14.3.2013

Sisira de Abrew J.

The accused appellant in this case was convicted for raping a woman

named Kusumawathi and was sentenced to term of ten years rigorous

imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs.20,000/- carrying a default sentence of 2 Y2

years imprisonment. Being aggrieved by the said conviction a~d the sentence the

he has appealed to this court. Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as

follows:

On the day of the incident (30.3.97) around 12 noon the accused appellant

who was living in the neighbourhood of the prosecutrix came to the compound of

)_

2

the house of the prosecutrix and made inquiries whether her husband was at home.

When she replied him in the negative he dragged her inside home and raped her. In

protest she shouted and struggled with him but he committed the act of rape. In the

struggle she passed stools. After the act of rape the accused appellant dragged her

near the tube well in the garden. Then Sopia, a woman living in the

neighbourhood, intervened and separated both. Then she addressed Sopia in the

following language: "All what he could do was done to me." She showed her

injury on the leg. She says that she sustained injuries on her breast and left ear as a

result of the accused appellant biting her when he was committing the act of rape.

After the incident she with her infant child went and met her husband and told him

that the accused appellant caused injuries to her. She says that she did not tell her

husband about the rape incident at this time as there were people at the place where

her husband was working. She thereafter went and lodged a complaint at the Police

Station. She, at the hospital, told her husband about the incident of rape. This was

the summary of the evidence of Kusumawathi (the prosecutrix). The main

contention of learned President's Counsel was that the prosecution had not proved

penetration which is an essential ingredient in a charge of rape. He brought to our

notice what the doctor who examined the prosecutrix had written in the short

history. The doctor has written the following words in the short history. "Raped by

a known person called Bandara on 30.3.1997 at l.OOp.m, when she was at home

with an adopted child. She did not know whether penis inserted into the vagina.

Stools passed when she was fighting with the man." Learned PC harping on the

sentence:"she did not know whether penis inserted into the vagina" contended that

the prosecution had failed to prove penetration. But the doctor in the MLR

concluded that there was evidence of recent vaginal penetration. Therefore the

above sentence in the short history has not weakened the evidence of penetration.

3

Kusumawathi the prosecutrix in her evidence said that she felt as if she

was behaving sexually with her husband. This clearly indicates that the accused

appellant had inserted his penis into her vagina. After she gave the above answer

learned prosecuting State Counsel had asked the following question.

Q. Did you feel a penis being inserted?

A. Yes.

Learned PC contended that this was a leading question. But this question

was asked she, in the previous answer, had said that she felt as if she was behaving

sexually with her husband. I therefore hold that no prejudice caused to the accused

by the said question.

The doctor says that abrasion in the labia minora was consistent either with

scratching or colliding with an object. Kusumawathi admitted that she scratched

her vagina as she was suffering from an urine infection. According to the doctor

there was an abrasion on the chest, contusion on the knee joint, bite marks on left

breast and right breast and left ear. Kusumawathi says that she sustained injuries

whilst she was struggling with the accused appellant. Thus this part of the evidence

of the victim is corroborated by medical evidence. She made a complaint to the

police soon after the incident. No contradiction or omission was marked with her

statement made to the police. Thus her evidence satisfies the test of promptness

and consistency. When I consider all these matters I fell that her story is true. If

court feels that she has spoken the truth her evidence can be acted upon even

without corroboration. This view is supported by the judicial decision in Premasiri

Vs Queen 77 NLR 86 wherein Court of Criminal Appeal held thus: "In a charge of

rape it is proper for a jury to convict on the uncorroborated evidence of the

complainant only when such evidence is of such character as to convince the jury

that she is speaking the truth."

4

When I consider all these matters I am unable to agree with the contention

of learned President's Counsel that the prosecution had not proved the penetration.

In my view the prosecution had proved penetration.

I have considered the evidence led at the trial. I am of the opinion that

there are no grounds to interfere with the judgment of the learned trial judge. I

therefore affirm the conviction and the sentence and dismiss the appeal.

PWDC Jayathilake J

I agree

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.