==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A.647/96 (F)

D.C.HORANA 42161L

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

Dona Elizebeth Attygala, Awasa Junction, Elpitiya, Godakawela.

Plaintiff-Appellant

Vs

1. Dona Karunawathie Subasinghe 2. Dona Luwi Winson Attygala 3. Don Leslie Welinton Attygala 4. Don Lutas Nickolas Attygala 5. Dona Priya Subodhani Attygala 6. Dona Chintha Priyangani Attygala. (Deceased) 6A. Wijekoon Mudiyanselage Ravindra Wijekoon.

All of Atulugama Road, Kalamedriya,

Bandaragama.

Defendant-Respondents

SISIRA DE ABREW, J.

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J.

Naveen Marapane, Attorney-at-Law for the Plaintiff- Appellant R.C.Goonaratne, Attorney-at-Law for the Defendant-Respondents

20TH JUNE 2011

2nd AUGUST 2011

2

K. T .CHITRASIRI,J.

Plaintiff-Appellant namely Dona Elizebeth Attygala (hereinafter referred to

as the plaintiff) instituted action against the defendant-respondents (hereinafter

referred to as the defendants) in the District Court of Horana seeking inter alia for a

declaration of title to the two allotments of land referred to in the Second Schedule to

the plaint. In that plaint she has set out the way in which she claims title to the said

land referring to the plan bearing No.2935 dated 14th July 1974 made by Licensed

Surveyor R.W.Fernando.

The defendants having denied the legality of the aforesaid Plan No.2935 in

their answer took up the position that the land claimed by the plaintiff forms part of a

larger land and also had stated that they claim rights as co-owners over that property.

Accordingly, the defendants whilst praying for a dismissal of the plaint had stated

that it is necessary for the plaintiff to file a partition action if she needs to establish

her rights.

Admittedly, it was a larger land until its original owner namely Don Iglasten

Attygala transferred a portion of it to the 2nd, 3rd and 4th defendants by deed bearing

No.18267 dated 13th September 1958, marked IVl. The said portion of the larger

land that was transferred fell on to the direction of south-west and it was separated

clearly by a roadway. The balance land towards the north-east was transferred by the

original owner Don Iglaston Attygala to Dona Lissi Margarret Jayasundera Hamine

by the deed bearing No.18857 dated 28th January 1959 from whom the plaintiff

obtained title.

3

The aforesaid two parts of the larger land transferred by deeds 18267 and

18857 had well defined boundaries as far back as in the year 1958. These two

portions had been separated by a roadway coming from Wewita and leading towards

Atulugama. This is clearly shown in the aforesaid plan No.2935 as well. In fact

there is no dispute as to the identification of these two parts separately from the time

that it was transferred to the predecessors in title of the plaintiff as well as the

defendants. Hence, it is clear that there is no dispute as to the separation of the two

parts of the larger land that was transferred by deeds 18267 and 18857 in the years

1958 and 1959 respectively. Therefore, there is no bar to obtain a declaration of title,

of those two parts of the larger land by establishing proper title to the same even

without filing a partition action. Indeed there was no contest placed by the parties as

to this conclusion.

However, the issue arose due to Margarret Jayasundera Hamine from whom

the plaintiff claims title, transferring a part, consisting of 20 perches in extent from

her land situated on to the north-east of the road, to Richard Attygala and Lootus

Nicholas Attygala (4th defendant) by deed bearing No.4229 dated 11th April 1987.

Learned Counsel for the respondents relying upon the said deed of transfer, advanced

an argument to state that such a transfer of title to the 4th defendant and to the

predecessors in title of the other defendants, would not pave the way to terminate the

co-ownership to the land. Accordingly, he submitted that the title devolved on the

defendants by the said transfer of 20 perches of land by Jayasundera hamine would

entitle them to claim co-ownership to the land claimed by the plaintiff.

4

In support of this contention, learned Counsel referred to the case of Dias v.

Dias 61 NLR at 116. In that decision it was held thus:

"Where a co-owner conveys his interest by reference to a particular

portion or korotuwa of which he has been in possession, the deed can be considered

as effective in law to convey his undivided interest in the whole land. In such a case

the transferee can maintain a partition action in respect of the whole land.

An amicable partition to be recognized in law must be a division which in

law terminates the co-ownership of the property. A plan made at the instance of one

or more co-owners purporting to cause a division of the common land of which the

other co-owners apparently had no notice, does not form the basis of divided

possession. Exclusive possession on the footing of such a plan does not terminate

the co-ownership of the land."

In this case it was also held that:

"An amicable division to be recognized in law must be a division which in law

terminates the co-ownership of the property".

In this connection, learned Counsel for the defendants referred to the case of

Githohamy v. Karanagoda (1954) 56 N.L.R. at 250 as well. Learned Counsel for

the plaintiff also submitted that he too would be relying on those two decisions.

Hence, I will now examine the facts of this case having regard to the law

cited by Mr. Gunaratne, learned Counsel for the defendants. The aforesaid deed

bearing No.18857 by which Dona Lissi Margarret Jayasundera Hamine became the

owner of the land had transferred 2/3rd share of that property to Don Wilson Attygala

and to the plaintiff namely Dona Elizabeth Attygala by deeds bearing Nos.5939 and

5940 respectively. Subsequently, said Margarret Jayasundera Hamine had transferred

5

the balance 1/3rd share of the land by the deed bearing No.6767 to same Don Wilson

Attygala and Elizabeth Attygala making the two of them sole owners to the land.

Thereafter, Dona Elizabeth Attygala and Don Wilson Attygala being the sole

owners to the land had transferred back a part of the land containing 20 perches in

extent to Margarret Jayasundera Hamine by deed 6768. Subsequently, she namely

Jayasundera Hamine by deed No.4229 dated 11.4.1987 had transferred her 20 perch

block to Lootus Nickolas Attygala (4th defendant) and to Richard Attygala, who is

the husband of the 1 st defendant and also the father of the 2nd to 6th defendants. This

is the way in which the defendants claimed rights as co-owners to the land claimed

by the plaintiff.

At the time the transfer by the plaintiff and Wilson Attygala to Jayasundera

Hamine of the 20 perch block was effected by executing the deed 6768, they being

the two transferors had drawn up a plan to show the land they own leaving out the

said 20 perch block given to Jayasundera Hamine. This is the plan bearing No.2935

dated 20th July 1974 made by LlSurveyor R.W.Fernando. A reference had been made

to this plan 2935, in the deed 6768 by which the 20 perch block was transferred to

Jayasundera Hamine. The said plan is referred to in the subsequent deed as well, by

which the plaintiff and Wilson Attygala became entitled to their allotments but

minus the said 20 preach block.

The law referred to in the judgments cited hereinbefore clearly states that

amicable division of a land with the view of terminating the co-ownership of the

property could be done only in a manner recognized by the law. However, in both

6

those instances, discussed in the two judgments referred to earlier, some of the co-

owners to the disputed lands in those two cases had not participated when the lands

were divided even though a part of a larger land with defined boundaries had been

alienated. Accordingly, the Court had held that in order to have a legally accepted

division terminating the co-ownership, it is necessary to have the consent of all the

parties who claim rights over a larger land.

In this instance, plaintiff and Wilson Attygala became the sole owners to the

land pursuant to the execution of the aforesaid deeds 5939, 5940 and 6767. They

being the only owners to the land had transferred a part of it, containing 20 perches

in extent to Jayasundara Hamine. This is the right that is being claimed by the

defendants through deed 4229. (P7) The said portion containing 20 perches was left

out when the balance land claimed by the plaintiff was identified by the plan 2935.

This plan is being referred to in the deeds relying upon by the plaintiff.

In the circumstances, it is clear that no co-owner was left out when

transferring the land to Jayasundera Hamine and it was not like in the cases cited by

the learned Counsel. Hence, the facts of this case should be differentiated from the

facts in the cases cited by the learned Counsel for the defendants. Furthermore, it is

seen that all the co-owners to the property had clearly separated a 20 perch block of

land with defined boundaries when it was alienated to the predecessor in title of the

defendants.

In the circumstances, it is my view that the plaintiff is entitled to obtain a

declaration of title to the land that she had claimed in her plaint without resorting to a

7

partition action. Accordingly I set aside the judgment of the learned District Judge of

Horana dismissing the plaint filed by the plaintiff.

At this stage, I must mention that when considering the evidence, both oral

and documentary, particularly the deeds produced in this case, it is clearly seen that

the plaintiff had proved that she is entitled to the land that she claims. In fact the

opposing party had not controverted the said evidence. Basically the title to the land

of the respective parties depended on the deeds that they have produced in evidence.

Indeed, each other party has not challenged their respective deeds. All those deeds

had also been referred to and discussed earlier in this judgment. In the circumstances,

it is my considered view that the plaintiff by evidence has established her title to the

land that she claims.

However, the plaintiff in her evidence as to the claim for damages has not

described the manner in which she lost the income from the property though she has

merely stated that she was prevented from possessing the land. To the contrary the

151 defendant in her evidence has stated thus:

@@@ <g>£)@ ~z;es3 f;1)~~ ~e:D~ ~es3@es3~

~8 e55ex3 20 ~z;e5J©rn ~C5el) ~~C5() e5@®!JB ~8 ~e:D~

'E)~es3@es3.

<g>~~ @f;1))0e3 ~© e:>f;1) e:>f;1) ~C5 @e5)© f;1)£)) (5)es3el)~1 @(2)J© (5)~el) 8(}()§C5e:D

~~@(5)el) @(2)J© (5)~el)~1 e:>® (5)e5 ~© ~@t3 ~6z;®(2)) e5~) f;1)£)el)~1

~S365 @f;1))()@e5 ~B @~C5e:D ~~@es3 el)Z;~Z;. @e5)© (5)e5 e:>@~@ ~~es:)).

@f;1))e5 (5)e5 ~~@es3 el)Z;~Z;. e5 @(5»)©@©) ~~el) (5)e5 ~()e:D ~~C5e:D e5@®!J f;1)e5)

8

~ : @@@ ®tJ@@) ~ @(5))©©€))@G3 g)cl~ ~eeD ~ @(5))©©€))@G3 tS3C5eD @fS))Oci

~©O m@€))©) tS3B@ t's»®C5cl fS)6©) eD(';em;'il

e: eD(';e5)(';

~ ~C50 ~cl~ ~€))eD V€))eD ve) tS3(5) ~8 tS3B@ ~~e5fS) tS3(3) eD(';e5)(';.

~: m@€))©)@(5)€)) ~ @(5))©@©) ~©)e5) ®©©) 63@C5eD~)'il m@€))©) ~©)e5)

@(5)~€))eD ~(';tJcl fS)6©) ~@C5eD~)~'il

e: eD(';e5)(';.. ~ @(5))©©€))O ~(';~rn ~ @(5))©©€))@(5)€)) (5)ci g)cl~ ~e€))eD

~@~€)).

(Vide proceedings dated 26.02.1996 at Page 115 of the brief)

When considering the aforesaid evidence of the plaintiff as well as the 1

51

defendant, it is not possible to conclude that the plaintiff has established her claim

for damages that she has prayed for in the plaint.

For the aforesaid reasons, I direct the learned District Judge of Horana to

enter judgment and decree in favour of the plaintiff only in terms of the prayers (1)

and (2) of the plaint dismissing the claim for damages.

The plaintiff is entitled to the costs of this Court as well as the District Court.

Appeal allowed with costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Dona Elizebeth Attygala

Plaintiff-Appellant

Vs

CA Appeal No: 647/96 (F) DC Horana No. 42161L

Before

Counsel

Argued on

Decided on

1. Dona Karunawathi Subasinghe 2. Don Luwi Winson Attygala 3. Don Lesslie Welinton Attygala 4. Don Lutas Nickelas Attygala 5. Don Priya Subodhani Attygala 6. Dona Chintha Priyangani Attygala 6A. WMR Wijekoon.

Defendant-Respondents

Sisira de Abrew J & K. T Chitrasiri J

Navin Marapana for Plaintiff-Appellant Ranjan Gunarathne for the Defendant-Respondents

20.6.2011

2.8.2011

Sisira de Abrew J.

The Plaintiff appellant, by this appeal, seeks to set aside the

judgment of the learned District Judge dated 29.8.96.

2

The plaintiff and Winson Attygala, by virtue of deeds marked PI,

P3 and P4, became owners of one acre of the Northern portion of the land

called Mahawatta (hereinafter referred to as the relevant land). Thereafter

the plaintiff and Winson Attygala, by deed marked P5, transferred the house

and 20 perches towards the southern boundary of the land to their mother

Margret Jayasundara. Thereafter the plaintiff and Winson Jayawardene

executed a partition deed marked P8. According to the sai~ Partition deed

plaintiff got lot Nos. 1 and 2 of the plan No.2935 marked P6 and Winson

Attygala got lot No.3 of the said plan. Later Margret Jayasundara, by deed

marked P7 transferred the house and 20 perches which she got from deed

marked P5 to Richard Attygala and Nickalas Attygala. Upon Richard

Attygala's death 1 st to 6th respondents became the owners of the said

property. Plaintiff appellant alleges that defendant-respondents, thereafter,

entered lot Nos. 1 and 2 of plan marked P6 and disturbed the possession of

the plaintiff-appellant. The plaintiff appellant filed an action in the District

Court to get a declaration of title to said lot Nos. 1 and 2 and to eject the

defendant respondents from the said lots. The learned District Judge, by his

judgment dated 29.8.96, dismissed the plaintiff's action. This appeal is

against the said judgment.

The contention of learned counsel for the defendant respondent is

that since Nickalas Attygala and Richard Attygala became owners of the

house and the twenty perch land which is a portion of the relevant land they

too became co-owners of the relevant land. Learned counsel for the plaintiff

appellant contended that the house and the twenty perch land described in

deed marked P5 and P7 is a defined lot. I note that four boundaries of the

twenty perch block with the house had been demarcated in deed marked P5.

3

The most important question that must be decided in this case is whether the

plaintiff and Winson Attygala who were owners of the relevant land could

sell a defined lot from the relevant land and when such a defined lot is sold,

the buyers of the said lot become co-owners of the relevant land. I may

present the question in another way. That is to say: can all co-owners of a

land transfer a demarcated lot of the land and upon such transfer does the

transferee become a co-owner of the land. The learned District Judge

concluded that transferee becomes a co-owner of the property.

Learned Counsel for the defendant-respondents cited M.

Githohamy V s ER Karanagoda 56 NLR 250 Wherein Supreme Court held:

"A plan made at the instance of a co-owner purporting to cause a division of

the common land of which the other co-owners apparently had no notice

does not form the basis of divided possession. Exclusive possession on the

footing of such a Plan does not terminate the co-ov.rnership of the land, and

no presumption of an ouster can be inferred from such possession.

When a land is amicably partitioned among the co-owners it is

usual to execute cross deeds among themselves or at least that all the co-

owners should sign the Plan of partition."

This was followed in Dias V s. Dias 61 NLR 116. In the above

case division of the common land by way of a Plan was done by a co-owner

without giving any notice to the other co-owner. But the question that is

being considered is whether all co-owners can sell a defined lot. Therefore

the above judicial decision is not an authority to decide the question that is

being considered in this case. If the contention of learned counsel for the

defendant respondent is to be accepted as correct, then all brothers and

sisters of one family, after the death their parents, cannot sell a demarcated

lot of the property of the family to an outsider. This is not the correct legal

4

position. Therefore if the contention of learned counsel for the defendant

respondent is accepted as correct it will lead to an absurdity. In my view all

co-owners of a co-owned property can transfer a demarcated lot of the co-

owned property and upon such transfer, transferee does not become a co-

owner of the property. He becomes an owner of only the demarcated lot.

For the above reasons, I hold that the learned District Judge's

conclusion is wrong. I therefore set aside the judgment dated 29.8.96. I

further hold that the plaintiff appellant is entitled to the relief prayed for in

paragraph 1 and 2 of her plaint. The learned District Judge is directed to

enter decree accordingly. The plaintiff appellant is entitled to the costs in

both courts.

Appeal allowed.

Judge of the Court of appeal.