==== BLOCKS ==== 

I ,

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA 233/2007

L. Nimal alias

Chootiya,

Accused-Appellant.

Vs.

The Attorney General.

Respondent.

HC COLOMBO CASE NO. 08/2000.

Before: Sisira J De Abrew, J. &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J.

Counsel: Amila Palliyage for the Accused-Appellant.

Rohantha Abeysooriya DSG for the State.

Argued &

Decided on:19.11.2013.

Sisira J De Abrew, J.

1

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases. The

accused-appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of a man

named Gamcharige Dharmadasa alias Nandapala and was sentenced

iI

1

t

I I I

2

to death. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence he

has appealed to this court. The facts of this case may be briefly

summarized as follows:-

The accused-appellant in this case was known to the deceased

person. The deceased person used to call the accused -appellant as

'Chootiya'. On the day of the incident around 3.30 p.m the deceased

person left for Jayasiri's boutique to buy certain things. Little later

the wife of the deceased person ran near Jayasiri's boutique on

hearing that her husband was lying fallen on the road. On seeing

that her husband was lying fallen near Jayasiri's boutique she ( wife

of the deceased-Indrani) questioned him as to who committed this

crime. Her husband (the deceased person) replied in the following

language. "Chootiya is the person who cut. He attacked three times

on the neck". Thereafter she took her husband to the hospital. He

died five days after the incident.

The Investigating Officer, in consequence of the statement

made by the accused- appellant, recovered a manna knife which

could not be seen under a bush in a marshy land. Police Officer

says that the accused-appellant pointed out the knife which could

not be seen.

Doctor says that the deceased person, after receiving injuries,

was able to speak. The accused-appellant too gave evidence.

t t

~ i i I

~

I I

tIIt if

~ t(

t

I

1

3

According to him it was Kammalwatte Chootiya who had attacked the

deceased person. He had received this information while he was

playing in the playground. It is significant to note that learned

defence counsel who appeared for the accused -appellant did not

suggest to the wife of the deceased person that it was Kammalwatte

Chootiya who attacked the deceased person. There was no

suggestion whatsoever on behalf of the accused that it was

Kammalwatte Chootiya who attacked the deceased person. If this

was his defence, it would have been quite natural for the accused

appellant to make this suggestion to the prosecution witnesses. I

therefore hold that the accused -appellant has not challenged the

evidence of Indrani ( wife of the deceased person ) on a very vital

point. Wife of the deceased person made a prompt statement to the

police. The learned defence counsel failed to mark vital

contradictions with her statement to the police. I therefore hold

that the evidence of the wife of the deceased person satisfies the test

of promptness and the test of consistency. The fact that deceased

person was able to speak after he sustained injuries must be

considered in favour of the witness Indrani (wife of the deceased

person) when considering her credibility. When I consider all these

matters, I hold that Indrani is a reliable witness. As I pointed out

earlier the accused -appellant has not challenged the evidence of

Indrani on a very vital point. What happens when evidence given by

a reliable witness is not challenged in cross-examination. What is

the effect of such silence on the part of the defence counsel. In this

I

rt

t I I

\

4

regard I would like to consider certain judicial decisions. In the

case of Sarwan Singh Vs State of Punjab 2002 AIR Supreme Court

(III) 3652 at 3655 Indian Supreme Court held thus:

« It is a rule of essential justice that whenever the opponent

has declined to avail himself of the opportunity to put his case in

cross-examination it must follow that the evidence tendered on

that issue ought to be accepted. "

This judgment was cited with approval in the case of Boby Mathew

Vs. State of Karanataka 2004 (3) Criminal Law Journal page 3003.

In the case of State of Himachal Pradesh Vs. Thakur Dass (1983) 2

Criminal Law Journal 1694 at 1701 V.D. Visva c.J. held:

((Whenever a statement of fact made by a witness is not

challenged m cross-examination, it has to be concluded that the

fact in question is not disputed"

In the light of the above judicial decision, I hold that whenever

evidence given by a witness on a material point is not challenged in

cross-examination it has to be concluded that such evidence is not

disputed and accepted by the opponent subject of course to the

qualification that the witness is a reliable witness. The accused -

appellant, as I pointed out earlier, failed to suggest his defence to

the wife of the deceased person Indrani who gave evidence. This

suggests that the defence taken up by the accused-appellant is a

false defence. His evidence therefore has to be rejected. Learned

I

f I i

" I I II

i" !

j

! I

5

f II

trial judge has rightly rejected the evidence of the accused

appellant. In our view the evidence of the accused- appellant is not

even capable of creating a reasonable doubt in the prosecution case.

Learned Counsel for the accused-appellant contended that Premasiri

did not hear the deceased person's dying declaration which was

made to his wife. He therefore, contended that the dying declaration

made to the wife of the deceased person cannot be accepted. It has

to be noted here that wife of the deceased person does not, in her

evidence, say that Premasiri was present at the time the dying

declaration was made. Therefore the above argument has to be

rejected and is hereby rejected. We have gone through the evidence

led at the trial. We are of the opinion that the prosecution has

proved its case beyond reasonable doubt. We hold that there is no

merit in this appeal. For the above reasons, we affirm the conviction

and the death sentence imposed on the accused-appellant and

dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

P.W.D.C. Jayathllake, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

Mmj-.