==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE CQURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA Case No. CA (Writ) 331/2008

C.P. Kalpage No.6, 1st Lane, Nuwara eliya.

Petitioner Vs. Central Environment Authority "Parisara Piyasa", 104, Dencil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha, Battaramulla. And 05 others

Respondents

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for mandate

in the nature of Writ of Mandate and writ of

certiorari in terms of Article 140 of the

Constitution.

*******

C.A. (Writ) Application No. 331/08

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

1

: Oeepali Wijesundera J.

: Manohara De Silva PC with

H. Munasinghe for the Petitioner.

Viveka Siriwardena SSC for 1st,

2nd , 5th to 8th Respondents.

Rohan Sahabandu PC with Ms.

Hasitha Amarasinghe for 3

rd and

4 th Respondents.

: 31 st October, 2013

: 30th January, 2014

Oeepali Wijesundera J.

The petitioner has filed this application against the respondents

for writs of certiorari to quash the decisions dated 05/06/2007,

02/11/2007 and 05/12/2007 marked as P18, P25 and P27 sent by the

2nd respondent refusing permission to construct a building in the land

described and also to quash the order made under section 24C and 24D

of the National Environmental Act No. 47 of 1980 in document marked

P20. And also for a writ of Mandamus to direct the 1S\ 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th

respondents to grant approval to construct a building in the said land.

The petitioner was in possession of a state land which was 15

perches in extent situated at Gemunupura, Nuwara Eliya. This land was

given to him in terms of a permit issued under the State Lands

Ordinance, which was required to be renewed annually. He was entitled

to construct on this land with the permission from the Government agent

and he was granted permission to construct vide P3, P4, P5 and P6 but

he did not construct during this time. In 2004 the petitioner has made an

application to extend the permit to commence construction work and

was informed that the said area has been declared as a "Reservation".

He appealed against this to the Urban Development Authority and by

letter dated 08/09/2006 was informed that the cabinet has declared this

2

I 1 j I

*

area as an "Environmental Protection Area" and he cannot construct

without permission from 1 st and 5th respondents. By Gazette No.

1487110 dated 05/03/2007 the said area was declared as "Lake Gregory

Environmental Protection Area" and the petitioner has abandoned the

idea of constructing a dwelling house. He has made an application to

construct a Recreational Club on the said land (marked P24), which the

petitioner stated is a permitted use for which the said land could be

utilized under schedule /I of the said Gazette. He was refused

permission by the Central Environmental Authority by document marked

P25. The petitioner stated that this is an erroneous interpretation of the

said notice and that there are several houses and buildings constructed

in the land located around the land in question.

The petitioner stated that the Central Environmental Authority

refused to grant permission to construct a Recreational Club on the

assumption that there is a permanent forest cover in the said land and

that the construction will destroy the said forest cover, but that the land

in question does not have a permanent forest cover. Petitioner

submitted that there was no legal justification for the 1 st and 2

nd

respondents to refuse permission to the said construction hence the

decisions contained in P18, P25 and P27 are arbitrary and ought to be

quashed. Further he stated that the Gazette by the Minister of

3

j j

1 Environment and Natural Resources bearing No. 14B7/10(2R2) is

unreasonable and mala fide.

The respondents submitted that the permit under which the

petitioner claims the land was issued by the Divisional Secretary of

Nuwara Eliya who is a necessary party to this application has not been

made a party and the failure to do so is a serious lapse and therefore

this application should be dismissed in limine. Respondents stated that

the petitioner has failed to explain the delay in filing this application

since his request was refused on 05/06i2007(2R3). The Central

Environmental Authority has thereafter sent several letters regarding

this application they are marked as 2R4 A and 2R4 B.

The respondents also argued that the petitioner has failed to

exhaust the right of appeal to the Secretary to the Ministry of

environment under Sec. 2300 therefore the discretionary remedy of

issuing a writ should not be exercised in favour of the petitioner.

I

The Respondents also stated that the petitioner failed to show

that he had a valid permit to the said land to this argument the petitioner

sated that the issue was not the permit but the refusal to grant

permission to build. No one can build on a state land without a valid

permit.

4

The respondents stated that the land in question falls within

permanent forest cover under Gazette No. 1487110 Part I and Part II of

schedule II therefore it should be maintained as a permanent forest

cover and can not be used for any other purpose.

The documents presented (P12, P13, P15) by the petitioner may

give rise to an expectation but certainly it cannot be described as

'legitimate expectation' the required standard adopted in law in writ

applications. This court observes that mere favorable documentation

presented at a certain point of time should not be the basis to issue

prerogative writs which is a discretionary remedy of court.

The petitioner was granted a permit to develop the said state land

in 1985 according to his own document P2(a) and permission to build a

house was granted in November 1985 according to P3 but he has not

developed the land until that area was declared as a "Forest Reserve".

The reason to maintain a permanent forest cover in the area described

in PII of schedule I is to prevent soil erosion and the land has to be

preserved to save the environment. Having idled since 1985 when he

was in possession of a valid permit he cannot now claim to have any

right to construct.

5 I I 1

1

I

\

Petitioner did not act under section 2300 where he had the right

to appeal therefore he cannot ask for discretionary remedy to be

exercised. He has not explained the delay in making this application.

This court having considered the case of both parties cannot

conclude that the authorities concerned acted maliciously merely

because the petitioner had not been granted a permit and allowed to

construct in the said land in comparison to other lands in the area. It is

also a difficult question in the context of this case to conclude that the

authorities concerned were discriminatory of the petitioner. Nor can I

find sufficient material to issue a writ of Mandamus in the manner

pleaded and prayed for in the petition. The required statutory duty and

or the public duty to issue a writ of Mandamus does not seem to surface

from the available material.

What remains to be decided is whether a writ of certiorari could

be issued in the circumstances of this application. Even if certain

grounds that need to be established for the issue of certiorari cannot be

easily proved the reasonableness of the decision contained in

documents Pi8, P25, P27 need to be considered. A decision which is

found to be unreasonable or irrational is liable to be quashed by a writ of

6

t

certiorari. I n view of the Gazette No 1487110 these documents does not I fall within this description. t

For the afore stated reason the application of the petitioner is

dismissed with costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

7

1

If ! I I