==== BLOCKS ==== 

I . I J I

j j 1 I

\

I I I

1 I I 1 , ! 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

In the matter of a petition of appeal in

terms of section 331 (1) of the Code of

Criminal Procedure Act No 15 of 1979

High Coyrt (Embilipitiya) Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

Case No: H.C.E.79/2007 lanka

C.A. Case No: 183/2012 Complainant

Vs.

Singappulige Gunadasa alias Kaluwa

C/O K.H. Rohana, Debara Ara,

Uwa Kuda Ova,

Thanamalvila.

1st Acccused

Singappulige Gunadasa alias Kaluwa

C/O K.H. Rohana, Debara Ara,

Uwa Kuda Ova,

Thanamalvila.

1st Accused Appellant

1

IIIiIII

flfII

fIIIt

,

\

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

2

Vs.

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

lanka.

Complainant Respondent

R.N.J. PERERA, J

P.W.D.C. JAYATRILAKE, J

Indika Mallawarachchi for the Accused

Appellant.

Y. Kodagoda DSG for the

Respondent.

28.08.2014

05.11.2014

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J

On a Sinhala Hindu New year Day, namely, 14th April 2003, Somapala alias Danegala

Lokka was in his compound after consuming alchohol. He had quarreled with a

villager name Wasantha at about 5.30 in the evening. Danegala Lokka was a person

who habitually quarrels with others after consuming liquor. While wasantha went

home after the said incident Danegala Lokka kept waiting in the compound, after

some time, a person called Kaluwa who was very well known to the members of

Danegala Lokka's family, came there carrying a gun with a group of people. Kaluwa

came near the fence and fired at Danegala Lokka. After being admitted to hospital

Danegala Lokka died.

Singappulige Gunadasa alias Kaluwa, Jayasekara Kankanamge Karunadasa,

Jayasekara Kankanamge Ajith Pushpa Kumara and Jayasekara Kankanamge Shantha

Sarath Kumara the 1st to 4th accuseds respectively were indicted for the murder of

Deegana Gamage Somapala alias Danegala Lokka under Sec. 296 of the Penal Code

read with Sec.32. The 1st accused was convicted after trial and sentenced to death.

This is an appeal from the said conviction and the sentence.

3

The main contention of the Counsel for the Accused Appellant is that the learned

trial judge has disbelieved one of the eye witnesses and has accepted the evidence

of the other eye witness to convict the accused. The evidence given by the witness

in favour of the accused was disbelieved by the learned trial judge and rejected.

When the two eye witnesses said to be in the vicinity at the time of the incident

give contradictory evidence, it is inevitable that a doubt arises as to which has to be

believed, the Counsel argues.

Mukthalatha, the wife of the deceased and Indika Pushpakumara the son of the

deceased had been in the compound when the incident took place. Their evidence

corroborates each other except on one point in it which causes a vast difference in

the effect. According to the evidence of those two witnesses, Oanegala lokka was

under the influence of liquor in the particular evening and had quarreled with a

villager. After some time, a group of people including the four accused had come.

The 1st accused was carrying a gun.

Then comes the controversial point, as to who fired. According to the wife it was the

2nd accused Kaikiriya and according to the son the 1st accused. Mukthalatha the wife

of the deceased says, " Kaikiriya took the gun which was in Moda Kaluwa's hand and

fired". "Kalumama came near the fence and placed a gun on the body and fired says

Indika Pushpakumara", the son. He never speaks about Kaikiriya.

4

It is impossible to assume that the wife mentioned in her evidence like this by

mistake, since both the 1st and the 2nd accused were the residents of the same

village and known to her well. The opinion of this court is that she has given false

evidence changing her position taken in her complaint made to the police and the

evidence given in the non summary proceedings deliberately in order to get the 2

nd

accused involved in the incident. And also this court believes that she should not be

believed as she has given contradictory evidence with regard to the weapons carried

by the 2nd, 3rd and 4th accused. Therefore I reject the evidence of this witness as she

is not a credible witness at all. Above is the analysis by the learned trial judge of the

evidence given by Mukthalatha, the wife.

It is the defense itself that has shown the reasons for not believing in the evidence

of Mukthalatha. There are four contradictions marked as 1V1, 2V2, 2V3 and 2V4of

evidence of Mukthalatha. 1 V1 is a statement made to the police where she has

stated "then fired with the gun which was with Modakaluwa". 2V2 is the denial of

her evidence in the non summary proceedings which says that Kaikiriya had a club in

his hand.

The learned trial judge has emphasized that this witness has said to the police in her

statement made to the police two days after the incident that it was Modakaluwa

who fired at her husband. He has further observed that this witness in her evidence

given in the non summary proceedings has not mentioned the fact that it was

5

Kaikiriya who took the gun from Modakaluwa and fired. The trial judge has come to

the conclusion that this witness has lost her reliability by stating to court that she

had not told the police that Modakaluwa fired at her husband.

This is how the trial judge has evaluated the evidence of Indika Pushpakumara.

While this witness had witnessed this incident at the age of ten years, he had given

evidence at the age of seventeen. This witness has without any hesitation stated to

court that his father was under the influence of liquor, any that he assaulted the

person called Wasantha and also had an 'illankura' and a knife in his hand.

Accordingly, he has given an unwavering evidence without any hesitation.

The appellant's counsel raises a point to refute Indika Pushpakumara's evidence that

the deceased had been fired at not keeping the gun on the body, but at a distance

of two feet from the deceased, according to the medical evidence.

The learned Senior State Counsel who supports the conviction submits that the gun

recovered in investigations which is a production in this case is a locally

manufactured one a country gun. The medical officer has described the differences

of observations that can be made when firing is done with a standard gun and a

country gun. Accordingly, the distance from which firing took place, nature of the

burnt marks and the nature of wounds vary in accordance with the length of the

barrel, the gun powder and pellets used. Therefore submissions of the learned

6

Senior State Counsel were that the medical evidence corroborates the evidence of

Indika Pushpakumara when considering the evidence of J.M.O as a whole.

It is an accepted principle that the Court of Appeal will not overrule the decision of

the court below on a question of fact in which the Judge has had the advantage of

seeing the witnesses and observing their demeanor if not for some valid reasons.

When the aforesaid reasons are taken into consideration, this court forms the

opinion that this court has no necessity to interfere with the conclusion of the trial I

judge disbelieving the evidence of Mukthalatha, the wife of the deceased and acting

upon the evidence of Indika Pushpakumara in convicting the Accused Appellant.

I, therefore, confirm the conviction and the sentence imposed on the 1st Accused

Appellant by the trial court and dismisses the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

H.N.J. PERERA J

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

7