==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 1749/2006 (Writ)

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

Anil Gooneratne J

The Sri Jayawardenapura General Hospital Board

The Sri Jayawardenapura General Hospital,

Thalapathpitiya, Nugegoda.

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. Hon. Athauda Seneviratne M.P.

Minister of Labour Relations and Foreign

Employment,

2nd Floor, Labour Secretariat

Narahenpita, Colombo 5.

And 7 others

RESPONDENTS

Sanjeewa Jayawardena P.C., with Senani Dayaratne for Petitioner

Viveka Siriwardena S.S.C., for Substituted 1

5\ 3rd & 4th Respondnets

T. Machado for the 6th Respondent

1

2

ARGUED ON: 16.11.2012 & 23.11.2012

DECIDED ON: 21.03.2013

GOONERATNE J.

Mandates in the nature of Writ of Certiorari and Mandamus are

sought by the Petitioner namely The Sri Jayawardenapura General Hospital Board

to quash an Arbitration award reflected in P7 & P7(a). The sth Respondent was the

arbitrator. A Writ of Mandamus is sought against the l

5t Respondent to refer the

matter for fresh arbitration. The 2nd paragraph of award P7 refer to the matter in

dispute. It reads thus: (in verbatim)

The matter in dispute between the aforesaid parties is whether the not

granting of permanency in service by Sri Jayawardanapura General Hospital

Board to Miss A. A. S. Livera, Mrs. P. C. K. Pathiratne, and Mrs. R. A. D. L.

Ranasinghe who are employed as Electro Cardiograph Recordists at the Sri

Jayawardanapura General Hospital is justified and to what relief each of

them is entitled.

6th, ih & gth Respondents were employed on a contract basis in the

Petitioner Hospital as 'Electro Cardiograph Recordists'. The case argued before

this court was only regarding the 6th Respondent, (though resigned from service

on 26.10.2004) since the ih & gth Respondents had settled the case with the

authorities concerned. The body of the petition filed in this application describe

the onerous nature of the duties and functions/responsibilities reposed in the

3

above Respondents as Electro Cardiograph Recordists (paragraphs 8 -1? of

petition). Position of the Petitioner is that 6th Respondent was employed on a

contract basis. It is also pleaded that persons holding the above post need to

successfully complete a training course (paragraph 13 of the petition) and should

possess a certificate of competence issued by the Department of Health Services.

The 6th Respondent and ih & gth Respondents had not obtained a certificate of

competence from the Department of Health Services. Petitioner had advertised

the posts on or about April 1999 with certain terms including the requirement of

having a certificate of competence, and due to the necessity of the Petitioner

Hospital the 6th Respondent along with ih & gth Respondents were employed on a

contract basis (document A40 and annexture also discussed below).

In the submission before this court the learned President's Counsel

maintained that the 6th Respondent and the other two were not entitled to a

permanent post since a certificate of competence had not been obtained by

them, and the Arbitrator had erred to that extent by not considering that fact. I

have noted the submissions made to this court by the learned President's Counsel

and the matters contained in the pleadings of both parties.

It would be important to examine the order of the learned Arbitrator,

to ascertain whether the order at P7 & P7(a) is a just and equitable order. The

following salient points are noted.

(a) Evidence of 3 witnesses considered. The order highlight the evidence of

one Sarath Roberts who was an Administrative Assistant and emphasis is on

(i) Three other employee who did not possess the certificate of

competence were granted permanency. One Miss D.K.S. Perera

4

recruited as a E.C.G. Recordist with lesser qualifications was made

permanent (A30) even without a certificate of competence.

(ii) 6th Respondent and the other two Respondents had continuity of service

though not possessed with the certificate of competence. As such in

view of (i) above 6th Respondent and the other two Respondents treated

differently. They were deprived of any form of training whilst some

clerks recruited as ECG Recordists were sent on training.

(b) Some reference made to the marital status of the other two Respondents

and the 6th Respondent remained unmarried, (paragraph 9 of award)

(c) The Commissioner of Labour inquired into a complaint made by the said

employees regarding them being deprived of permanency. The

Commissioner of Labour took the position that non granting of permanency

was illegal (paragraph 10).

(d) Evidence of Dr. Neomalee Amarasena with reference to a particular

document A97. Continuity of service of the 6th Respondent admitted and

that the Trade Test as described was done by the witness. Witness was

satisfied with operating of the ECG machine by the employees concerned

who had obtained more marks than the others at a test.

(e) The Administrative Officer's evidence considered. 6th Respondent's

resignation accepted from the hospital (XS).

(f) 6th Respondent was employee on a contractual basis but continuity of

service established. No complaints as regard the work of 6th Respondent.

The Petitioner hospital failed to release the 6th Respondent and the other

5

two Respondents from hospital work to enable them to obtain the

certificate of competency.

The material placed before this court and the arbitrator no doubt indicate

that the 6th Respondent had been in the employment of the Petitioner hospital

for a period of about 7 ~years. (contractual basis from 13.1.1997 to 26.10.2004).

Evidence transpired in the Arbitration proceedings indicate that there was a

continuity of service of the 6th Respondent but she could not obtain the certificate

of competence issued by the Health Department. This was a point that the

Petitioner relied upon to fault the award of the Arbitrator. However the evidence

led before the Arbitrator does not indicate any item of evidence which fault the

6th Respondent in the performance of her work or duties. The 6th Respondent on

the other hand relies on circular No. 27 of 2001(A41). My attention was drawn to

letter marked A97 and the evidence of Dr. Amarasena (in cross examination). The

letter A97 state that one need to have a substantial basic training which can only

be received in the school for cardiographer and those who lack that qualification

are unsuitable for permanent employment. In cross examination the witness

admit the following:

(a) Trade test conducted and satisfied about the outcome of the test

regarding all three Respondents.

(b) The three of them did not possess the certificate of competence but

they had other certificates and being satisfied recruited them.

(c) Continuity of service of all 3 Respondents confirmed without a break in

service.

l

6

The Arbitrator is required only to make a just and equitable award.

There is material placed before the Arbitrator that the Respondent hospital did

not attempt to release the 6th Respondent and the other two Respondents to

the Health Department to enable them to obtain the required training and

obtain the certificate. There was evidence that others who had not obtained

the certificate of competency were made permanent. In the proceedings

Petitioner did not contest the above position of one ECG Recordist D.K. Kanthi

Samanmalee Perera who was made permanent. Nor could the Petitioner make

any complaint on the performance of work of the 6th Respondent. The case

presented to the Arbitrator was not one which demonstrate any kind of

incompetence on the part of the 6th Respondent. Nor did the Petitioner show

that the 6th Respondent did not possess any other certificate of failed in the

trade test. I agree with the views of the Arbitrator that the 6th Respondent and

the other two Respondent had been discriminated.

In the manner argued on behalf of the Petitioner can one

conclude that Arbitrator had completely failed to consider the far reaching

medical ramifications of granting permanency to applicants. If that be so why

did the hospital authorities permit the 6th Respondent to continue to perform

her duties for 7 Yz years?

This is indicative of the fact and point that the 6th Respondent's

employment though termed as contractual or casual, by the work

performance it was apparent that the performance was good and assumed a

regular character. I have had the opportunity to include the dicta in the

following case laws to support the above views.

7

In River Valleys Development Board V United Engineering Workers' Union (SC ':-6/71

decided on 27.3.73), the Supreme Court held that although the workmen were termed

'casual' their employment had assumed a regular character which was openly recognized by

the employer by the mode of payment which was fortnightly and not daily, and also by the

climate created by the employer who, throughout held out to them that they were not

casual but were employed on a regular basis despite the artificial breaks which were

periodically imposed on their employment. In Superintendent of Pussella State Plantations,

Parakaduwa V Sri Lanka Nidahas Sewaka Sangamaya (1997) 1 SLR 108, where His Lordship

the Chief Justice, G.P.S. de Silva held that "It seems to me, thereafter, that whilst there is no

legal objection to the employment of temporary or casual employees who do not have the

rights of permanent employees, in the instant case the facts show the description ot the

workman as "casual" is not true, and that the real character of his employment is that of a

permanent employee.

Having considered the above decided cases, it is apparent that the real

character of employment of the Respondents take the character and nature of

permanent employment. The Petitioner had in fact settled the case of the

other two Respondents for good reasons and granted them the status of

permanency. Why should the 6th Respondent be denied of the benefit merely

because she left the employment of the hospital? Further annexture Ill of

document A40 and document A40 itself, is good and sufficient material to

decide on proficiency. A certificate of proficiency as Electro Cardiograph

Recordist have been obtained by the 6th Respondent. Annexture Ill above is

self explanatory .

...... "The Board (Petitioner) had decided to amend the recruitment

criteria for the post by having only a recognized ECG Recordist certification as

the qualification.

8

In view of the above it is not possible to fall back on the argument

advanced on behalf of the Petitioner that 6th Respondent not having a

certificate of competence.

The real character of employment is of a permanent nature

and the evidence before the Arbitrator with emphasis to the terms of

recruitment, qualifications obtained, service record are not matters faulted by

the employer and no material placed before the Arbitrator of any inefficiency

on the part of the 6th Respondent as regards her service record, to deny the 6th

Respondent relief, sought before the Arbitrator. The Arbitrators award is a just

and equitable award. I see no basis to interfere with same.

In the submission on behalf of the Petitioner much emphasis is

placed regarding the 6th Respondent's voluntary resignation on 26.10.2004,

whilst the arbitration was pending. It is argued that specific terms of refer'"'nce

constitute the ambit and scope of the Arbitrators powers.

In other words as described by the learned President's Counsel the

employment must be a live issue. The operative words emphasized in the

submissions with reference to the above matter in issue are the words "who

are employed". I have given my mind to every word in the written submissions

of the Petitioner.

No doubt the Arbitrator does not have the power to exercise

any power outside the terms of reference. But what flow from the mattP.r in

dispute is whether or not the granting of permanency is justifiable? The

operative part, to my view is to ascertain whether it is just and equitable to

make the 3 employees permanent. Obviously as at the date of reference to

Arbitration the other part of the matter in dispute relate to the 3 Respondents

I

'I

9

'who are employed' as Electro Cardiograph Recordist. What is important is to

decide on the three Respondents permanency. What follows is that those

Respondents are employed as above. The 6th Respondent had a service record

of 7 ~ years without being made permanent. If permanency is granted some

financial and other benefit from the service would accrue to the 6th

Respondent. I would take the view as demonstrated by the 6th Respondent

that the Arbitrator had observed that "It is uncontroverted fact that the

matter in dispute occurred while the workman was on duty then the workman

is entitled to relief even if she had left the service. What is relevant and

important is the service record of the 6th Respondent, and decide, the question

of permanency. The term 'who are employed' should not be read in isolation,

but in the context of the question of permanency.

Another issue that is raised by the Petitioner is that the 6th

Respondent remained unmarried expecting permanency. There is reference to

this fact at paragraph 9 (Pg 4 of P 7). No doubt the Arbitrator has given his

mind to this and said so, but the Arbitrator's conclusions are not solely

dependent on this, and the evidence led at the inquiry goes into very

substantial questions of permanency. The above question of marriage is

somewhat a comment and conclusions in P7 are independent of this point. It is

only a mere observation and nothing else.

I wish to add that circular No.27 /2001 dated 29.1.2001 issued by the

Ministry of Public Administration cannot be ignored (A 41). The operative date

according to the said circular is 01.10.2001. As such this court takes the view

as stressed by the Petitioner (who objects to back dating from date of

recruitment) and court holds that the award of the Arbitrator is a just and

10

equitable award but permanency of the 6th Respondent is with effect from -

01.10.2001. Subject to this variation the award remains a just and equitable

award. The Arbitrator in this inquiry has made all such inquiries and heard all

such evidence tendered by parties, and arrived at his conclusions.

The term

1just and equitable' in the Industrial Disputes Act has been

the subject of extensive judicial interpretation, and an examination of these

decisions would indicate the part that the concept of equity plays in industrial

disputes. In a very broad sense, it may be said that

11the test of a just and

equitable order is that those qualities would be apparent to any fair-minded

person reading that order" 78 CLW 46 & 48. It may be objected that this test is

a vague one - that it helps little to clarify the already vague or imprecise

concepts of justice and equity. But it has the merit of suggesting or implying

that an order would be just and equitable if it appears to the sense of justice of

a fair-minded man, in turn implying that the fair-minded man's sense of justice

is as close as one can get to some objective standard of equity. Of course, we

may have difficulty in agreeing on who is a fair-minded man, and one suspects

that the fair-minded man contemplated is none other than the appellate

court.

(Pg. 11, some concepts of labour law-S. R de Silva)

In all the above circumstances this court is not inclined to disturL the

award and findings of the Arbitrator in P17 & P17a. This court does not wish to

exercise its discretion in favour of the Petitioner in this Writ application. As such

11

subject to the above variation as regards the effective date of permanency I

dismiss this Writ application without cost.

Application dismissed.