==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA (PHC) 182/2000 HC Avissawella 88/98 (Rev)

Galaudakanda Wathukarage Siripala

Accused-Respondent-Appellant

Vs.

Thotapitiya Archchige Abeypala

Petitioner-Respondent

Before Sisira de Abrew J & K. T Chitrasiri J

Counsel Palliyage for the accused-respondent-appellant Suranga Bandara for the petitioner-respondent.

Argued on : 4.7.2011,5.7.2011

b

W\..-- Decided on: /.10.2011

Sisira de Abrew J.

The accused respondent appellant (hereinafter referred to as the

accused appellant) was charged in the Magistrate's Court of Avissawella for

causing grievous hurt to T A Abeypala an offence punishable under Section

316 of the Penal Code and for causing simple hurt to DD Jayasuriya, an

offence punishable under Section 314 of the Penal Code. The learned

Magistrate, after trial, by his judgment dated 25.9.98, acquitted the accused

appellant of both charges. Being aggrieved by the said judgment, T A

Abeypala, the petitioner respondent (hereinafter referred to as the

2

respondent) filed a revision application in the High Court of Avissawella.

The Attorney General did not grant sanction to appeal against the judgment

of the learned Magistrate. The learned High Court Judge (HCJ) by his

~~ oJ!Idgment dated 14.6.20~ set aside the. judgment of the learned Magistrate

and ordered a retrial. Being aggrieved by the said judgment of the learned

HCJ, the accused appellant has appealed to this court.

According to the evidence of Abeypala around 9.00 p.m. on the

day of the incident, on hearing a commotion, he went in the direction of

layaweera's house. He, then, saw the accused appellant who was a police

officer attached to the Ehaliygoda Police Station assaulting Jayaweera.

When he made inquiries about the assault, the accused appellant told him to

mind his own business. Thereafter J ayaweera was taken near the compound

of the accused appellant and he continued to attack Jayaweera. There were

other police officers present at the scene. After the attack on Jayaweera,

Abeypala too was taken near the house of the accused appellant and the

accused appellant attacked him with a club. The attack on Abeypala was

witnessed by his wife who gave evidence at the trial.

The accused appellant and the Officer-in-Charge of Ehaliyagida

Police Station gave evidence. The accused appellant, according to the

evidence, was a neighbour of Abeypala. Version of the defence is that

Abeypala and Jayaweera came and damaged the house of the accused

appellant when he was inside the house; that the police officers attached to

the Ehaliyagoda police at this time arrived at the scene; and that OlC gave

chase and arrested Abeypala who fell into ten feet deep pit. Doctor who

examined Abeypala observed lacerations, Contusions and fractures on, the

legs of Abeypala. Doctor in his evidence first agreed with the suggestion that

3

these injuries could have taken place due to a fall but later said that these

injuries could not have taken place due to a fall as there were no injuries on

the upper part of the body. (Vide pages 75-79 of the brief). But the learned

Magistrate considering the medical evidence concluded that Abeypala had

sustained injuries due to a fall. This was a serious misdirection committed by

the learned Magistrate.

The learned Magistrate, at page 235 of the brief used a portion of

the statement made to police by Jayaweera as evidence to reject the

prosecution version. Jyaweera did not give evidence at the trial. His

statement was not produced at the trial. He died before the commencement

of the trial. It is settled law that trial judges cannot use statements made by

witnesses to the police in the course of investigation as evidence when they

are not produced at the trial. This was a serious misdirection on law

committed by the learned Magistrate.

The accused appellant's version is that Abeypala or Jayaweera

damaged glass windows and flower pots of his house. But the accused

appellant being a police officer of Ehaliyagoda did not make a complaint.

This was the evidence of the OIC of Ehaliyagoda Police Station. Learned

Magistrate did not consider this matter in evaluating the defence evidence.

In my view this matter becomes a vital matter in considering the credibility

of the accused appellant's evidence.

When I consider all these mattes, I hold the view that the learned

l\1agistrate's conclusion in acquitting the accused appellant is wrong. In my

view the learned HCJ was correct when he ordered a retrial. For these

• 4

reasons, I dismiss the appeal and affirm the judgment of the learned HCJ

fl...-"dated 14.6.2000 .

Appeal dismissed.

KT Chitrasiri J I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.