==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI

LANKA

C.A. No. 1146/9S(F)

D.C.Kandy No.2228/RE

D. H .Abeygu nasekera No. 15/1, 3rd Lane, Koswatta, Nawala, Rajagiriya

BEFORE:

Original Plaintiff (Deed)

Vs

K. V.Ramasamy No. 308, Trincomalee Street, Kandy Defendant

AND NOW BETWEEN

V. Ramasamy

No. 308, Trincomalee Street, Kandy Defendant-Appellant

Roshni Angelique FoenanDer No.1S/l, 3rd Lane, Koswatta, Nawala, Rajagiriya Substituted-Plaintiff-Respondent

Deepali Wijesundera J.,

M.M.A. Gaffoor, J.,

COUNSEL: H.Withanaehehi for the Defendant-Appellant

Chandimal Mendis with Viraj Vithanage for the Plaintiff-

Respondent

2

ARGUED ON: 24.02.2015

DECIDED ON: 25.06.2015

M.M.A. Gaffoor J. e

The Plaintiff-Respondent (hereinafter referred to as lithe Plaintiff")

filed this action on 31.08.1989 against the Defendant-Appellant

(hereinafter referred to as lithe Defendant") for ejectment and damages

on the ground of reasonable requirement for him and for his family

members (para. 4 of the Plaint), The Defendant filed answer denying the

Plaintiff's action and pleaded that his requirement is greater than that of

the Plaintiff and that the Plaintiff was interested in selling the premises

and therefore the Plaintiff's action be dismissed.

Originally the Plaint was flied by two Plaintiffs, but when the Plaint

was amended the 2nd Plaintiff was dropped and the 1st Plaintiff continued

with this action.

The Answer was amended twice and the 2

nd amendment was after

the trial began and the Issues were framed.

At the trial two Admissions were recorded and the Plaintiff raised·

Issues 1-9 and the Defendant raised Issues 10-13.

According to the evidence in this case, the premises were given on

rent by the Plaintiff's mother E.H. AbeygUnaSekera,~e Defendant and.

she died in 1981 and thereafter the Plaintiff became the landlord.

Thereafter the Plaintiff instituted this action for ejectment of the

Defendant on the ground of reasonaple requirement of the Plaintiff and

.

3

the members of his family, in terms of Section 22(6) of the Rent Act No.7

of 1972.

The two Admissions were that the Defendant had received the

notice to quit to terminate the tenancy by 31.07.1989 and that the

Plaintiff's mother, who was the landlord, in 1974, gave the premises on

rent to the Respondent and the said Plaintiff's mother was dead. As the

Plaintiff wanted the premises for his reasonable use, he has given a year's

notice from 31.07.1988 to 31.07.1989 to the Defendant, who first denied

receipt of this notice but later has admitted that he received the said

notice. After the one year period, the Plaintiff says that the tenancy was

terminated. The Plaintiff has given the notice to quit terminating the

tenancy by 31.09.1989. This notice is marked as "P1".

The purpose of giving a year's notice to the tenant is to enable him

to find a suitable residence for him in the event if he is ejected from the

present residence. This is a statutory requirement under Section 22(6) of

the Rent Act No. 7 of 1972.The Plaintiff has complied with this

requirement. But the Defendant has not taken any step to find an

alternative residence after the receipt of the said notice.

The only ground that is raised by the Defendant against the

reasonable requirement of the premises by the Plaintiff was that the

Plaintiff was planning to sell the premises and therefore his averment in

the Plaint that he wanted the premises for his reasonable use is false. But

whether this ground is a valid ground to deny the rights of the Plaintiff is

a matter to be decided on the evidence led in this case.

4

The Plaintiff in his evidence has said that the Defendant had been

asking him on several occasions to sell this property to him but he was

If;JeIVJ 4> not willing. As the price of propert~ going up in open market, the Plaintiff

wanted 3 or 4 lakhs but the Defendant offered only 2 lakhs why the

Plaintiff was not seriously interested in selling the premises in suit to the

Defendant is not clear from his evidence. But only one reason was clear

that is he wanted the premises for his and his family as their residence, as

they were living in a rented house.

From the evidence of the Plaintiff it is very clear that the Plaintiff

has no other house on his own other than the premises in suit. His wife

has a house in Nawala, but it is not relevant to this case. In the case of

Sulaiman vs Aboobucker 1992{1} Sri lanka law Report page 314, "it was

held "To sue the tenant on the ground of reasonable requirement, the

landlord should not own a house or he should not own no more than one

house. The expression "Iandlord" does not include his wife." Hence, the

fact that his wife has a house is not a ground to be considered against the

Plaintiff· "

At the trial, the Plaintiff raised, inter alia Issue No. 4 and the

Defendant raised Issue No.11 as follows:

No.4 Are the premises insuit reasonably required by the Plaintiff as

stated in the Plaint?

No.11 Is the need of the Defendant to possess this property greater

than that of the Plaintiff?

5

After considering the evidence led in this case, the learned District

Judge answered the Issue No.4 affirmatively and Issue No.11 as "does not

arise.

At the end of the trial, the learned District Judge has come to a

finding that the Plaintiff has given a valid notice to terminate the contract

of tenancy between the Plaintiff and the Defendant and damages in a

sum of Rs. 250/- per month and entered judgment in favour of the

Plaintiff as prayed for in paragraph (a) and (b) Oof the prayer to the Plaint.

The Defendant has preferred this appeal to this court against the

judgment entered by the learned District Judge in this case, while the

appeal was pending in this court, the original Plaintiff died and the

daughter of the deceased Plaintiff has been substituted. This substitution

was objected to by the Defendant but on 26.05.2000, Edussuriya J.,

allowed the application for substitution.

The Defendant in his original answer denied the landlordship of the

Plaintiff but in the amended answer he has taken a different stand and

accepted the Plaintiff as his landlord. When the tenant denies

landlordship, his tenancy comes to an end and he has no right to occupy

the premises. However, since the Defendant had changed position and

accepted the Plaintiff as his landlord, termination of the tenancy on that

ground is not taken into consideration. Since the plaintiff is dead and his

daughter Roshini Angelique Foenander is substituted in his place, the

question now arises is whether the reasonable requirement of the

premises bV the substituted Plaintiff is valid or greater.

6

It was contended on behalf of the Defendant that the action was an

action by an individual Plaintiff, who sought personal relief for possession

for himself in respect of the premises in suit, and in the absence of the

name of the person mentioned in the decree under Section 22(8) of the

Rent Act, the demise of the Plaintiff concludes the ..... and there is

nothing to transmit.

This evidence is untenable. In the case of Arnolis Appuhamy vs De

Alwis- 60 NlR 141 Sansoni J., took the view that in a case based on

reasonable requirement of a premises for the residence of the Plaintiff

landlord, who died pending appeal, the decree for ejectment of the

Defendant tenant was not affected by the subsequent death of the

Plaintiff pending appeal.

In support of this position, His lordship referred to an English case

of Goldthorpe vs Bain (1952) 3 Q.B.455 where the question arose that·

after obtaining anorder for possession the Plaintiff died and whether such

an order was personal to the Plaintiff and ceased at his death. The Court

of Appeal held that the order was not personal to the landlord who

obtained it, but concerned a proprietory interest of the landlord which

passed to his personal representatives.

Undoubtedly the decree in an ejectment action once entered

confers a proprietory interest on the Plaintiff landlord because the cause

of action which was personal to the Plaintiff becomes merged in the

decree for ejectment. Thus, the proprietory interests conferred in the

7

Plaintiff, in this case, by the decree, pass to his daughter, his legal

representative on the Plaintiff's death.

Finally, the only matter that has to be considered is the

comparative needs of the Plaintiff and the defendant in the case. It is

admitted that the Plaintiff was a retired police officer, who was a

pensioner and was living in a rented house. His wife is ailing and the

children are living in Boralesgamuwa and paying a rent of Rsx. lS,OOO/-a

month. Whereas the Defendant is the owner of the business premises

situated in the same road in which the premises in suit is also situated.

There is no evidence that the Defendant, though is able to buy another

house, had made any effort to find an alternative residence in Kandy after

the receipt of the one year's notice from the Plaintiff.

In the case of Weerasena vs Mathupala 1992 (l)Sri lanka law

Report 389, W.N.D. Perera J held that :the efforts made by the tenants to

find alternative accommodation must be taken into account where the

tenant has not made serious attempts to find alternative accommodation

although had handed over the basement and ground, this would count as

a factor against him."

Comparing the needs and inconvenience of the Plaintiff and the

Defendant", the court has to form an opinion whether the premises are

reasonable required for the occupation as a residence for the landlord.

The tenant's difficulties do not come into the matter at all. The only thing

that matters to the reasonableness of the landlord's requirement" per

Basnayake J., in Atukorale vs Navaratnam 49 NlR 461 at p. 469.

· ,

8

Considering the evidence led in this case, I am of the view that the

Appellant, who had the means of purchasing an alternative premises for

his residence, apart from the business premises ( the press) which he

owns now, has failed to buy an alternative premises, but has kept on

pressurizing the Plaintiff to sell the premises in suit for a lesser price.

Also the fact that the deceased Plaintiff's ailing widow and children

are iiving in a rented house and paying Rs. 15,000/- as rent per month are

matters to be looked into on the question of reasonable requirement of

the landlord. In determining the question of reasonableness of the

landlord's requirement, I hold that the requirement of the Landlord is

greater and therefore the Plaintiff is entitled to a decree of ejectment.

We therefore affirm the judgment of the District Judge and dismiss

the appeal with costs here and the court below.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Wijesundera J

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

\