==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

I I I I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA(PHC)APN No.124/2012

HC Chilaw Case No.HCA 43/08

MC Marawila Case No. 69749

In the matter of an application under Article 138(1) of the Page 11 Constitu tion of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

Jayalaththinige Mangala

Dilukumari, No. 232, "Kumari Niwawa", 6th Lane,

Uda-Siri Gama, Lunuwila.

Applicant

Vs.

Kulathunga Kankanamlage Asela, C/O Mary Violet

Dambakele Yaya, Karawitagara, Chilaw.

Respondent.

And

Kulathunga Kankanamlage Asela, C/O Mary Violet Dambakele Yaya, Karawitagara, Chilaw.

Respondent -Appellant

Vs.

Jayalaththinige Mangala

Dilukumari, No. 232, "Kumari Niwawa", 6 th Lane, Uda-Siri Gama, Lunuwila.

Applicant -Respondent.

AND NOW BETWEEN

Kulathunga Kankanamlage Asela, C/O Mary Violet Dambakele Yaya, Karawitagara, Chilaw. Page I 2

Responden t -Appellan t-Petitioner.

Vs.

J ayalaththinige Mangala Dilukumari, No. 232, "Kumari Niwawa", 6 th Lane, Uda-Sirl Gama, Lunuwila.

Applicant-Respondent-Respondent.

Before: A. W.A. Salam, J & Sunil Rajapaksha, J.

Counsel : Palitha Abeysinghe for the Petitioner and Thushani Machado for the Respondent.

Argued on: 06.11.2013

Written Submissions filed on:27 .11.2013

Decided on:20.01.2014

A.W.A. Salam, J

This is a revision application filed by the Respondent-Appellant-

Petitioner (Petitioner) to have the order of the learned Magistrate dated

29.08.2008 and the judgment of the High Court Judge dated

28.11.2011 set aside and revised. The impugned judgment of the

learned High Court Judge has been entered upon the Petitioner

preferring an appeal against the order of maintenance delivered by the

learned Magistrate under Maintenance Act No 37 of 1999. Admittedly,

the Petitioner did not prefer an appeal against the judgment of the High

Court to the Supreme Court. Instead, he has filed the present revision

•

application in this Court. A preliminary objection was raised by the

Applicant-Respondent-Respondent as regards the maintainability of the

appeal, in that the~arned counsel for the respondent took up the

position that the petitioner is not entitled to fIle a revision application in

Page I 3 this court as against the express Provision relating to the procedure for

appeal laid down in respect of orders made under the Maintenance Act.

In other words, the learned counsel emphasized that the power of

revision cannot be invoked indirectly against the right of appeal

available to the Supreme Court. The principle on which the learned

counsel relied on was that what cannot be directly achieved cannot be

indirectly attempted at.

Having considered the submissions made in this regard by both parties,

I am of the opinion that there is substance in the argument advanced on

behalf of the respondent. As such, I am not inclined to endorse to the

view expressed on behalf of the respondent. In the circumstances, the

revision application fIled by the petitioner stands dismissed subject to

costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Sunil Rajapaksha, J.

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

NR/-