==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

CA Writ No. 622/2008

OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for

writs of Certiorari and prohibition

and mandamus under Article 140 of

the Constitution.

Ceylon Agro -Industries Limited

Negombo Road

Seeduwa.

1.

Petitioner.

Vs.

Director General of Customs

Sri Lanka Customs

Times Building

Colombo-01.

I I I I I Ii I I

t

i I i ;: l 1 l 1 , !

~ ,

~ l l I i l , 1 i J

I

j

~ , I 'I j i I I I I I I , 1 1 1 ! ! , i 1 I

1

1 ! j I I I 1 i 1 , 1 I i I

BEFORE:

2.

3.

Saman de Silva

Superintendent of Customs

Sri Lanka Customs, CBCU

Branch

Hemas Building

Colombo-01.

The Board of Investment of Sri

Lanka

West Tower

World Trade Centre

Colombo-01.

Respondents.

Hon. Sathya Hettige P.e. President of the Court of Appeal

Hon. Anil Goonaratne J, Judge of the Court of Appeal

COUNSEL: M. A. Sumanthiran for the petitioner.

Jank De Silva SSC with Nuwan Peiris SC

For Respondents.

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

25/08/2009 , 19/01/2010 & 16/02/2010

14/02/2011

[ I i i f I i ! t I l i I I ! I i t J ; I I £ r ,. I t ,

SATHY HETTIGE P.C (PICA)

The petitioner is a company named Ceylon Agro - Industries Limited

incorporated under the Laws of Sri Lanka and is engaged in the business of

importing RBD Palm Olien - a raw material not available in the Sri Lanka

local market for production of "Noodles" for which the petitioner was

entitled to import free from customs import duty and also engaged in the

business of importing Palm Olien bottling I branding and supplying to the

retail market as cooking oil for which the petitioner does not seek

exemption.

The petitioner entered into an agreement with the 3rd respondent in or

about 30th July 1993 which is marked P 1 to this application and two other

supplementary agreements dated 25th June 2003 and 14th July 2006 marked

P 2 and P 3 respectively to this application pursuant to which the

petitioner lawfully conducted its business and by importing raw materials for

the manufacture of its products namely Noodles. The petitioner uses the

Palm Olien in the manufacturing process.

The petitioner states that the above agreements were entered into in terms

of the power granted to the 3rd respondent under section 17 (1) of the

Greater Colombo Economic Commission Law No.4 of 1978 as amended.

Section 17 (1) reads as follows:

"The Commission shall have the power to enter into agreements with any enterprise in or outside the Area of Authority and to grant exemptions from any Law referred to in Schedule B hereto, or, to modify or vary the application of any such laws, to such enterprises in accordance with such Regulations as may be made by the Minister."

The petitioner says that amongst the benefits the petitioner was granted

by the 3rd respondent under the agreement P 1 and other supplementary

agreements marked P 2 and P3 was the exemption of the laws in Schedule

B of the Greater Colombo Economic Commission Law including the Customs

Ordinance. The petitioner says that oil Palm is not commercially available in

Si Lanka and it is not produced in Sri Lanka and therefore the petitioner is

permitted to import duty free such raw materials until such time the

said raw materials are available in the local market. In particular the 3rd

respondent has permitted the petitioner company the benefit/ concession

and privilege of importing project related materials and raw materials

approved by the BOI free of customs duty. The petitioner has been

importing the raw material namely the ROB Palm alien from the inception

as per the agreement.

The respondents in their statement of objections have stated though the

petitioner claims that agreement P 1 is the most relevant to the present

application, it has been entered into on 30/07/1993 whereas the relevant

regulations were passed subsequently on 16/08/1993 and as such P 1 is

null and void. Respondents also state that a board paper dated 13/07/1995

was presented to the Board of the BOI and decided not to extend any

further duty free facility granted to the Noodle plant operated by the

petitioner company since the other projects manufacturing noodles are not

eligible for any duty free import facility.

It is also stated by the respondents that the petitioner thereafter from

1996 to 15/08/2001 imported such items on payment of customs duties. It

was submitted by the respondents that the petitioner obtained a

fraudulent letter marked P 3 when the Board had already taken a decision

on 25/07/1995 not to extend the duty free facility granted to the noodle

plant operated by the petitioner company.

As far as the present application is concerned the relevant material facts

are that a consignment of Palm alien belonging to petitioners was detained

by the Customs Officers under section 145 of the Customs Ordinance. It

was the contention of the petitioner that the petitioner imported the Palm

alien to be used as raw material for the Noodle plant on the two letters

marked P 3 and P 4 which gave them the right to import on a duty free

basis.

The letter marked P 3 is written by one Mr. Kulasekare, an Executive

Director of BOI addressed to the petitioner informing him that the Board

approval has been granted to the petitioner company to import certain

items as raw materials to be used for food processing on duty free basis.

The letter marked P 4 is written by one Mrs Rajapaksha Acting Executive

Director of BOI dated 11/08/2001 informing the petitioner by referring to

P 3, that as per the Agreement dated 30/07/1993 the company is permitted

to import project related material on duty free for the approved project.

The respondents state that however the petitioner has failed to make the

Mr. Kulasekare or Mrs Rajapaksha parties to this application to explain the

position.

The petitioner says that on or about 25/06/2008 the petitioner submitted

the relevant documentation including the CUSDEC marked P 5 to the 3

rd

respondent for approval regarding the importation of six (6) containers of

RBD Palm Olien. It was submitted by the petitioner further that having

obtained the approval of the 3rd respondent the petitioner forwarded the

CUSDEC (P 5) to the Sri Lanka Customs for clearance of the goods from

the Port of Colombo.

However, the petitioner complains that the said consignment of six

containers was detained by the 2

nd respondent of Sri Lanka Customs

without assigning any reasons. It was submitted by the petitioner that no

explanation was given in writing as to why the consignment was

detained without releasing even after the 1st respondent has directed the

release of the consignment. The petitioner complains that the action of the

Sri Lanka Customs was arbitrary and completely contrary to law.

The petitioner by this application dated 30/07/2008 seeks the following

reliefs in the nature of Writs of Certiorari quashing any purported

forfeiture /Prohibition and a Writ of Mandamus .The petitioner also sought an

Interim relief from court directing the immediate release of the

consignment of RDB Palm Olien to the petitioner subject to such security as

the court may deem reasonable. On 08/10/2008 this court refused the

application for Interim relief.

The petitioner thereafter filed a Leave to Appeal to the Supreme Court

which allowed the petitioner to submit a bank Guarantee and release the

goods

The learned counsel for the petitioner heavily relied on the document (

Agreement) marked P 1 and submitted that agreement is a validly executed

document entered in to with the 3rd respondent which has never been

canvassed. Clause 10(x) thereof provides that the petitioner is permitted to

import inter alia, project related materials required for the business of the

petitioner company without payment of any customs duty.

Clause 10 ( xi) of P 1 provides as follows:

II The Enterprise shall ensure the procurement of raw materials such as but not limiting to soya Bean and maize from the local market. The duty free importation of such raw materials will be permitted only if the local supply is not sufficient or is not available in time until such time the

Enterprise could obtain such raw materials from the local market and subject to the condition that the enterprise shall take steps to develop local supply sources as stated in the said applications."

The petitioner contends that in terms of the above clause the petitioner is

permitted and entitled to import project related raw materials such as

soya beans and maize, duty free and the petitioner has a legitimate

expectation that it is entitled to do so and it can continue to act upon the

approvals given to it by the 3

rd respondent. The petitioner further states

that the granting or refusing duty concessions is a matter purely within the

purview of the 3rd respondent.

It was the contention of the respondents when obtaining the documents

marked P 3 and P 4 on which the petitioner relies on the petitioner may

have misrepresented the facts to the officers in the BOL It was contended

by the learned counsel for the respondents that a Board Paper dated

· .'

13/07/1995 was presented to the Board of the Board of Investment of Sri

Lanka which based on the contents contained therein decided on 25

/07/1995 not to extend any further duty free facility granted to the

Noodle plant operated by the petitioner since other projects manufacturing

noodles are not eligible for any duty free import facility. It was further

submitted that the petitioner had from 1996 to 2001 imported such items

by paying customs duties.

Respondents submitted that petitioner company had fraudulently used the

said letter dated 25/08/2001 marked P 3 imported duty free items referred

to in P 3 for manufacture of Noodles from time to time thereby

defrauding the Government revenue until the date of detection.

It was brought to the notice of court by referring to the statement given

by Mr. Kulasekare Executive Director of BOI to the Customs on

18.09.2008 that there was no Board decision to grant duty free facilities

to the petitioner and if he was aware of the Board decision dated

25/07/1995 he wouldn't have issued the letter marked P 3 Copy of Mr.

Kulasekare's statement to the Customs was marked R 5.

It was submitted by the respondents that on 6

th February 1993 the BOI

also granted approval to the petitioner including processing of food

products into the project subject to the condition that exemption from

duty at point of importation in respect of plant, machinery and equipment,

raw materials and other project related goods will depend upon facilities

that are available to other manufacturers of similar category.

It appears that after the withdrawal of the duty free facilities granted to

the petitioner by R 3 and R 4 ,no other Board decision had been taken by

the Board to grant duty free facilities for the import of raw materials to

manufacture Noodles to Ceylon Agro Industries Ltd. The question arises as

to who has the power under the BOI Act No. 4 of 1978 to take such

decisions.

1 1 j , i f

1 I i 1 , I I

J I I I j I 1 f I I

j I I I 1 I I I f ! I I I ! I I 'I j

:! :1

\1 ii ~

1i i \

. '

Section 17 of the Act provides that

II The board shall have the power to enter into agreements with any enterprise in or outside the Area of Authority and to grant exemptions from any law referred to in Schedule B hereto or to modify or vary the

application of any such laws to such enterprises in accordance with such Regulations as may be made by the Minister".

It appears that Customs Ordinance is referred to in the Schedule Band

any waiver of Customs duty must be in terms of the Agreement entered

into by the Board under the above section. There is no evidence or any

other supportive material placed before this court by the petitioner that the

Board has granted approval or any waiver to import Palm Olien to the

petitioner after the Board withdrew the duty free facility in 1995 by R3 .

It is only the Board of the BOI can grant exemptions and not an official of

the BOI without Board approval. Mr. Janak de Silva SSC invited the court's

attention to section 15 (1) of the Board Of Investment Act which provides

as follows:

liThe Board may delegate to the head of any department the exercise the exercise or discharge of any power or function vested in or assigned to the Board other than the powers conferred on the Board under section 17 of the Law."

In terms of the above provisions, it can be seen , that any delegation of

powers given to the Board under section 17 thereof cannot be delegated It

is only the Board can exercise such powers. The powers granted by the

statute to a particular tribunal or any other authority cannot be usurped by

any other officers without the powers being expressly delegated.

It is to be noted that the unauthorized and erroneous assurances given by

the officials of the organization or authority should not be relied upon by

the petitioner. Such assurances of officials are not binding on the Authority.

l I I , I I I I

J f

f ! £ i ! \

f ; I 1 , ! t i i II i

f I

J

f

.. ,.

! ,

Craig on Administrative law (3rd edition pg 652) states as follows:

tI .... there are reasons which have been given as to why a representation which is ultra vires, in the sense that it is outside the power of the public body or the officer who made it, should not be binding on that body. There is the fear that if estoppels were allowed to apply it would threaten the whole ultra vires doctrine, by enabling the public bodies to extend their powers by making a representation outside their lawful authority, which would then be binding upon them through the medium of estoppel. "

It was submitted by the learned Senior State Counsel that the petitioner

cannot rely on the two letters issued by two officers of the BOI since the

ultra vires representation cannot form the basis for legitimate expectation.

As such I do not think that the writers of documents marked P3 and P 4

the petitioner relies on did possess any power to issue such letters. I also

note that there is a duty cast upon such officials also to examine carefully

and satisfy themselves that there is in fact a decision taken by the Public

Body in terms of the law before the officials act on misrepresentations

made to them and issuing such letters to the public.

I have carefully considered the contention of the petitioner that the

petitioner had a legitimate expectation to continue with his importation of

project related materials and I am of the view that no legitimate

expectation can arise as the petitioner was fully aware of the decision

taken by the Board in 1995 and 2001 withdrawing the duty free facility.

In the circumstances and for the reasons set out above I am of the view

that the petitioner is not entitled to the reliefs sought. I also direct the

respondents to proceed with the Customs Inquiry in accordance with the

j

1 I I 1 l I i ! I I J J 'I

~

f

.. •

, ..

law and conclude the Inquiry expeditiously with sufficient notice being given

to the petitioner.

Accordingly, I refuse and dismiss the application with costs.

PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Anil Goonaratne J,

I agree. G1~~JZ~~

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

I I I I ! f I r i I I I. f !