==== BLOCKS ==== 

In the Court of Appeal of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

CA 962/96 F

DC Kuruneqala 3077/L

Deceased) Walimuni

Arachchige Dingiriya Udahena Katiyawa,

Ibbagamuwa.

Walimuni Arachchige Jayathhilake, Udahena, Katyawa.

Substituted-Plaintiff

Vs.

1. Aruma Wedakarayalae Themanis, Udahena, Kattiyawa, Ibbagamuwa.

2. W.M.Selesthina Udahena, Ibbagamuwa.

Defendants.

And Now

Aruma Wedakarayalae Themanis, Udahena, Kattiyawa,

Ibbagamuwa.

1 st Defendant-Appellant.

Vs.

Walimuni Arachchige

Jayathilake,

Before

Counsel

Udahena, Katyawa.

Substituted-Plaintiff-Respondent.

W.M.Selesthina, Udahena, Ibbagamuwa.

2 nd Defendant-Respondent.

A.W.A. Salam, J.

R.M.Perera for the Appellant.

N.S.Welgama for the Substituted-

Plaintiff-Respondents.

Written Submissions Tender on: 06/04/2011

2.?:>/05 d-Decided on ~/2011

A.W. Abdus Salam, J.

he plaintiff filed action originally against A V Monis

Tand later by the amended plaint cited another defendant

by the name W M Selesthina. The reliefs claimed by the

plaintiff were a declaration of title to the subj ect

matter and ejectment of the defendants. According to

2

Journal entry dated 8 September 1992 the original

defendant A V Monis had disclosed in his answer his son

by the name A. V. Thilakaratna as a necessary party to

the action. Consequently the plaintiff had moved for

notice on the said Thilakaratna and notice had been

issued on him returnable on 18 December 1992 and the

said Thilakaratna had filed his proxy nominating Mrs S

Ginige as his registered attorney at law. (Vide folio

194 of the record). Immediately thereafter on the same

day the said Thilakaratna has been added as the 2nd

defendant into the case but she has not filed an answer.

By amended plaint dated 15 March 1991 the plaintiff

maintained that one Salu and Babanissa had been· issued

with the certificates title under the Land Settlement

Ordinance in that year 1939 and after the death of

Babanissa the aforesaid Salu inherited his ~ share and

thus became the sole owner of the subject matter of the

action. Thereafter by virtue of deed of transfer no

18786 dated 28 January 1987 the plaintiff has become the

owner of the subject matter. His complaint is that the

defendants have obstructed the plaintiff from enj oying

the property from that year 1987.

3

Significantly, Thilakaratna who was added as a defendant

had not filed answer nor participated at the trial. The

original defendant in his answer took up the position

that the property in question was purchased by his son

Thilakaratna and that he had been in possession of the

said property on the strength of the deed of transfer in

favour of his son Thilakaratna.

The learned district judge after trial gave judgment in

favour of the plaintiff. The present appeal has been

preferred by the original defendant identified in the

peti tion of appeal as the 1st defendant-appellant. One

of the grounds of appeal urged by the appellant is the

alleged failure on the part of the learned district

judge to hear the 2nd defendant. As stated above the 2nd

defendant has appeared in court, filed his proxy and

thereafter failed to file an answer. He had not even

taken the trouble to participate at the trial. In the

circumstances no blame can be attributed to the learned

district judge as the 2nd defendant has to blame himself

for not espousing his cause if any. Even otherwise it is

not open to the 1st defendant to complain against the

2nd defendant not being heard as the latter has not

appealed against the judgment.

4

By production of P1 and P2 and other oral evidence the

plaintiff has clearly established his title to the

property.

It was contended on behalf of the appellant that the

subject matter had not been properly identified by the

plaintiff. It is to be noted that the schedule to the

amended plaint specifically refers to the plan No 383

dated 17 July 1990 prepared by S G Gunasingha, licensed

surveyor. Besides the surveyor has given uncontradicted

evidence substantiating his report marked as Xl. As a

matter of fact the original defendant was present at the

survey when the plaintiff had identified the corpus to

assist the surveyor in the preparation of the plan. The

learned district judge has corne to the specific finding

that the allotment of lands numbered as 226 and 228 in

the final village plan No 2459 has been properly

identified.

Both defendants have not given any satisfactory evidence

to claim the subj ect matter of the action either by

right of prescription or upon an instrument of deed.

5

In the circumstances, the findings of the learned

district judge do not appear to me as blameworthy. The

findings arrived at by the learned district judge after

hearing the witnesses and the impression formed by him

as to their credibility should not lightly be interfered

with. As such, I do not see any merit in this appeal and

therefore dismiss the same subject to costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Rc/-

6