==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A.110/2012

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

H. Karunasekera

Accused -Appellan t

Vs.

The Hon. Attorney General,

Respodent

H.C. Colombo Case No: 3393/2006

Sisira J. de Abrew,J. (Acting PICA) &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

Tenny Fernando for the Accused-Appellant.

A. Jinasena DSG. for the respondent.

29.01.2014

*********

Sisira J. de Abrew,J.(Acting PICA)

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases. The accused-

appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of his own wife Padmini

1

and was sentenced to death. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and

the sentence he has appealed to this Court. Facts of this case may be

briefly summarized as follows:

On the day of the incident around between 7.30 and 8.00 a.m.

Susilawathie saw the deceased woman with bleeding injuries. Thereafter

Susilawathie with the assistance of Dayawathie took the deceased woman

Padmini to the hospital in a three wheeler. Whist travelling in the three

wheeler the deceased woman Padmini told Susilawathie that Karuna

stabbed her and looked after her children. Karuna is the accused in this

case. His name is Karunasekera. Premalatha who was the post mistress

in the area, around 8.00 a.m. on the day of the incident, heard some cries

and when she looked in that direction she saw the deceased woman

Padmini with bleeding injuries. She also saw husband of the deceased

woman leaving this place. She immediately telephoned the Police and

informed about the incident. Dayawathie who was called by the accused

said that the deceased woman did not speak when she was being taken to

the hospital. However a contradiction was marked when she gave evidence

with regard to the alleged dying declaration. According to Dayawathie's

evidence deceased woman did not speak while being taken to the hospital.

But in her statement made to the Police Dayawathie had admitted that

deceased woman uttered the following words. ' my husband stabbed me'

This was marked as a contradiction. In my view, the said contradiction is a

material contradiction and the rejection of her evidence by the learned

trial Judge is correct. The doctor who conducted the post-mortem says

2

that the deceased woman was in a position to speak within a period of two

hours after receiving injuries. The accused-appellant who gave evidence

took up the position that he was at the relevant time at Ahangama. But he

being the husband of the deceased woman did not come to see his wife who

was in the hospital for 10 days. He says that he did not come because he

was threatened. We are unable to accept his explanation. The fact that he

did not visit his wife for 10 days who was in the hospital proves that the

stand taken up by him is false. Therefore the learned trial Judge was correct

in rejecting his evidence.

According to the Post Mortem Report there are three stabbed injuries

f'nd:>~ ~ and an inside wound. She died due to stab injuries to the face.

"'--

When we consider the evidence led at the trial, we feel that the

prosecution has proved its case beyond reasonable doubt. There are no

grounds to interfere with the judgment of the learned trial Judge. For the

above reasons, we affirm the conviction and the death sentence and

dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

Acting President of the Court of Appeal

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake,J.

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Jmrj-

3

ftIt

rIII