==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRAIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA (TAX) 14/2013

The Commissioner General of Inland

Revenue, Department of Inland Revenue,

Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha,

Colombo 02.

Before

Counsel

Argued on

: K.T. Chitrasiri 1.

Appellant

Vs.

lanashakthi General Insurance Co.Ltd

46, Muttiah Road, Colombo 2.

Respondent.

: L.T.B. Dehideniya 1.

: Anusha Samaranayake S.S.C. for the Appellant.

: Dr. Shivaji Felix for the Respondent.

: 14.07.2015

Written Submissions of the Respondent on : 16.07.2015

Written Submissions of the Appellant on : 14.08.2015

Decided on : 30.09.2015

CA/Tax/14/2013

I

2

L.T.B. Dehideniya J.

This is a case stated by the Tax Appeal Commission (TAC)

seeking the opinion of the Court of Appeal on questions of law stated

therein. At the hearing, the Respondent raised a preliminary objection on

maintainability of this action. The preliminary objection is;

"It is the Respondent's objection that no lawfully valid

transmission of the stated case within the statutorily contemplated

time period has been effected by the Appellant as required by

Section lIA(2) of the Tax appeal Commission Act No.23 of2011

as amended. It is the Respond's further objection that it has not

received a lawfully valid notice as mandated by Section 11 A( 4) of

the Tax Appeal Commission Act No.23 of2011(as amended)"

Basically the objection is on the caption. In the motion filed by the

Appellant with the case stated dated 4th June 2013, Janashakthi General

Insurance Co. Ltd is referred to as the Appellant and the Commissioner

General of Inland Revenue Department is referred to as the Respondent.

The T AC has stated case on the request of the Commissioner General of

Inland Revenue. Therefore, the Appellant of this application is the

Commissioner General of Inland Revenue. Janashakthi General Insurance

Co. Ltd should be the Respondent. (Hereinafter in this judgment, the

Commissioner General of Inland Revenue is referred to as the Appellant

and the Janashakthi General Insurance Co. Ltd is referred to as the

Respondent.) Respondent's argument that there is no proper transmission

of the case stated to this Court is on this basis.

The section llA of the Tax Appeal Commission Act (as amended)

referrers to the transmission of the case stated to the Court of Appeal. The

section llA (1) of the Act says how to initiate an appeal. It reads;

CA/Tax/14/2013

II

f

f I

1 ,

( 3

(1) Either the person who preferred an appeal to the Commission

under paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of section 7 of this Act

(hereinafter in this Act referred to as the "appellant'') or the

Commissioner-General may make an application requiring the

Commission to state a case on a question of law for the opinion

of the Court of Appeal. Such application shall not be

entertained unless it is made in writing and delivered to the

secretary to the Commission, together with a fee of one

thousand and five hundred rupees, within one month from the

date on which the decision of the Commission was notified in

writing to the Commissioner-General or the appellant, as the

case may be.

In the present case, the Commissioner General has made the

application to state a case for the OpInIOn of Court of Appeal on

22.03.2013. The determination was on 26. 02.2013. Therefore, the

application was made in time.

Sub section 1 and 2 of section I1A of the Act specifies the

procedure of transmitting a case stated to the Court of Appeal. Sub

section 2 reads thus;

(2) The case stated by the Commission shall set out the facts, the

decision of the Commission, and the amount of the tax in

dispute where such amount exceeds five thousand rupees, and

the party requiring the Commission to state such case shall

transmit such case, when stated and signed to the Court of

Appeal, within fourteen days after receiving the same.

The first part of this section has to be complied by the TAC. That is

to say that "set out the facts, the decision of the Commission, and the

amount of the tax in dispute where such amount exceeds five thousand

CA/Tax/14/2013

I

I f ,

1

I I I

4

rupees". The Appellant has no control over the TAC. Therefore the

Appellant is not liable for any error, omission or mistake in the case

stated. The Appellant has to comply only the second part of it. That is to

say that "shall transmit such case, when stated and signed to the Court of

Appeal, within fourteen days after receiving the same ".

In this case the TAC has sent the case stated to the Commissioner

General on 27.05.2013 and he has transmitted the case stated to this Court

within the stipulated fourteen days period. The letter addressed to the

Registrar of this Court by the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue

is dated 04.06.2013. The motion filed by the Commissioner General of

Inland Revenue is also dated 04.06.2013. In this case the Appellant has

fulfilled the requirement of presenting the case stated within fourteen

days.

The section does not specify the way of transmission of the case

stated. Whether it is with a petition alone or with a petition and affidavit

or with a motion is not specified in the Act. Even in the Inland Revenue

Act it is silent. Section 170 sub sections 1 and 2 of the Inland Revenue

Act NO.1 0 of 2006 are almost the same as the sub sections 1 and 2 of Tax

Appeal Commission Act as amended.

Presenting the case stated with a motion is the procedure adopted

in this Court. Acting under the said procedure, the Commissioner General

has presented the case stated to this Court with a motion. As I pointed out

earlier, the parties were named incorrectly. The Appellant was named as

Respondent and the Respondent was named as Appellant. Because of this

mistake the Respondent argues that there is no proper transmission of the

case stated. The Act does not require a motion to be filed with the case

stated. It is only a rule of practice. Therefore, the mistake in the motion

does not invalidate the transmission of the case stated. What is necessary

CA/Tax/14/2013

5

is to transmit the case stated within the time period stipulated by law. In

this case, as I have pointed out earlier, the case stated had been

transmitted to this Court within fourteen days after receiving the same.

The Appellant is obliged to issue notice to the Respondent when

the case stated is transmitted to the Court of Appeal. Section IIA (4)

provides for issuing notice. It reads thus;

(4) At or before the time when he transmits the stated case to the

Court of Appeal, the party requiring it shall send to the other

party, a notice in writing informing him that a case has been

stated on his application and shall supply him with a copy of the

stated case.

The next objection raised by the Respondent is that the notice sent

to him is also bad in law and invalid because of the incorrect caption. The

Counsel of the Appellant brought to the notice of Court in his written

submissions that the Respondent has failed to tender a copy of the notice

he received in support of the argument. This argument cannot stand

unless the notice is tendered to Court. I agree with the Counsel. The

Respondent did not give an opportunity for the Court to inspect the notice

for the reasons best known to him. Therefore the argument of the

Respondent should fail.

Even if the caption of the notice is incorrect, the Respondent

cannot be heard to say that he was misled. He does not say that he did not

receive the case stated. It is very clearly stated that the Commissioner

General of Inland Revenue is the appellant and lanashakthi General

Insurance Co. Ltd. is the Respondent. (Paragraph 0 I of the case stated)

The Respondent knew that he did not appeal against the determination.

After receiving notice, he came to Court and filed a proxy on his behalf.

The purpose of issuing a notice is to inform him that certain questions of

CA/Tax/14/2013

I r

f

I

6

law on the determination of the TAC have been raised before the Court of

Appeal. In the case before us, the Respondent was served with a copy of

the case stated. The Registrar of this Court has served a notice indicating

the next date of the case. Under these circumstances was not misled.

w. M. Mendis & Co. v. Excise Commissioner [1999]1 Sri L R

351 is a case where the name of a party was incorrectly entered in the

caption and an amendment was sought. De Silva 1. allowing the

amendment, cited with approval, the judgment of the Chief Justice

Sharvananda in Mackinnon Mackenzie & Co., Ltd. v. Grindlays Bank

Ltd. ([1986] 2 Sri L R 272) where it had been held that, "Provisions of

the amendment of pleadings are intended for promoting the ends of

justice and not for defeating them. The object of rules, of procedure is to

decide the rights of the parties and not to punish them for their

mistakes or shortcomings. A party cannot be refused just relief merely

because of some mistake negligence or inadvertence ". (Emphasis added)

In the case of Martin Silva and Another v. Central Engineering

Consultancy Bureau and Another ([2003] 2 Sri L R 228)

Weerasuriya, J. (PICA) referring to Brindra said that the rules of

procedure are tolls forged to achieve justice and are not hurdles to

obstruct the pathway to justice.

When transmitting the case stated to the Court of Appeal, tendering

a motion together with it is rule of procedure. The obvious mistake in the

caption has not prejudiced or misled the Respondent. The mistake in the

caption does not invalidate the transmission of the case stated to this

Court or the notice issued to the Respondent.

The preliminary objection, raised by the Respondent, is overruled.

CA/Tax/14/2013

I

1 I

7

At this stage I wish to bring to the notice that the material that has

to be included in to the case stated as per section 11 A (2) of the Tax

Appeal Commission Act. The law requires that the TAC has to include

certain data in the case stated. The section says that, "The case stated by

the Commission shall set out the facts, the decision of the Commission,

and the amount of the tax in dispute where such amount exceeds five

thousand rupees". The T AC has set out the facts and the decision of the

Commission in the case stated, but has not stated the amount of tax in

dispute. Under sub section 5 of section llA of the Act, the Court has the

power to remit the case stated to the TAC for necessary amendments. The

section reads thus;

(5) Any two or more Judges of the Court of Appeal may cause a

stated case to be sent back to the Commission for amendment,

and the Commission shall amend the case accordingly

I direct the Registrar of this Court to send the case back to the TAC

to do the needful.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

K. T.Chitrasiri J.

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

CA/Tax/14/2013

J I

II

!

~ I

;