==== BLOCKS ==== 

i .. i I

.( i f 1 ,

) , j :

~ I t

I

~ I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCILAIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

K. Sarnal Charnara Appuharny.

Accused-Appellant.

Vs.

The Hon. Attorney General.

Respondent.

CA 108/2012

HIGH COURT OF CHILAW CASE NO. 14/2010

BEFORE: Sisira J De Abrew, J. (Acting PICA)

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J.

COUNSEL: Asela De Silva for the Accused-Appellant.

Ranjith Abeysooriya for the State.

ARGUED &

DECIDED ON: 30.01.2014.

Sisira J De Abrew, J.(Acting PICA)

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases.

The Accused-Appellant in this case was convicted for an offence

under Section 443 of the Penal Code (House Trespass in the night) and

I j

...

t j .

~ V 1 I i j

j

~

~ , i j I

2

for the offence of rape which is an offence punishable under Section 364

of the Penal Code. On the first count he was sentenced to a term of two

years rigorous imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs. 5000/- carrying a

default sentence of six months imprisonment. On the second count he

was sentenced to a term of 15 years rigorous imprisonment, to pay a

fine of Rs. 15,000/- and to pay a sum of Rs. 300,000/- as compensation

to the victim carrying a default sentence of two years ngorous

imprisonment. Being aggrieved by the said convictions and the

sentences he has appealed to this Court.

Learned Counsel appearing for the accused-appellant submits that

he does not challenge the conviction. He only makes submission to get

the sentence reduced. We note that the accused-appellant has raped 50

V yeanf old woman in the night. At the time of the incident he was 21

o/year; old man. When we consider the age of the accused-appellant and

his finger prints report which indicates that he has no previous

conviction, we feel that the sentence imposed by the learned Trial Judge

is little excessive. We therefore decide to intervene with the sentence

imposed by the learned Trial Judge on the charge of rape. We do not

intend to interfere with the sentence imposed by the learned Trial Judge

on Count No. I. Considering his age and the fact that he has no previous

conviction, we set-aside the term of 15 years rigorous imprisonment and

the order of compensation made by the learned Trial Judge. On Count

I

JII

f ! I

3

No.2 we sentence him to a term of 10 years rigorous imprisonment and

to pay a sum of Rs. 100,000/- as compensation to the victim carrying a

default sentence of one year imprisonment. We do not interfere with the

fine imposed by the learned Trial Judge on the second count. We direct

that the term of two years rigorous imprisonment imposed on count

number one and the term of 10 years rigorous imprisonment on count

number two should run concurrently. The default sentences should be

implemented in addition to the term of imprisonment. We direct the

Prison Authorities to implement the sentence from the date of sentencing

by the learned Trial Judge. We direct the learned High Court Judge of

Chilaw to issue a fresh committal indicating the sentence imposed by

this Court. Subject to the above variation of the sentence the appeal of

the appellant is dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

P.W.~.C. Jayathilaka, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

; !t l

I ,