==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CAl120/2010

In the matter of Appeal in terms of section 331(1) of the code of Criminal Procedure Act No 15 of 1979.

Rasathurai Rajakumar of Santha Thoddam, Pulloly, Presently of prison Bogambara, Kandy.

(High Court Jaffna Case No 1051106) Appellant- Petitioner

Before

Counsel

Argued on

Judgement Date

Vs.

The Attorney General, Attorney General's Department Colombo 12.

Respondent

Vijith K. MalalgodaPC J(P/CA)

& H C J Madawala J

N ehara Randeniya assigned counsel for the accused appellant

S. Thurerajah S.D.S.G. for the A.G.

01-04-2015

28-05-2015

2

H C J Madawala J

The accused Appellant was indicted in the High Court of Jaffna on two counts. The first count

being the Commission of the offence of murder of Rajakumar Rajkumar a child on the 04th day

of June 2004 at Santha Thoddam, Pulloly punishable under section 296 of the Penal Code and

count two, the Commission of the offence of causing grievous hurt to Rajkumar Jayanthi an

offence punishable under section 317 of the penal code.

The accused opted for a non-jury trial. After trial the learned High Court Judge delivering his

Judgment dated 1/9/2010 convicted the Accused on both counts and sentenced to death on the

first count and Ten years rigorous imprisonment and Rs. 25,000 in default of which a further

terms of 02 years simple imprisonment on the second charge.

The Appellant being dissatisfied with the said Judgment and sentence appealed there from on

the following grounds namely,

A- The first charge was not proved beyond reasonable doubt,

8- The Sentence imposed on the second count is harsh and excessive with regard to the facts

and circumstances of this case.

The learned counsel for the accused appellant urged that prosecution has not proved its case

beyond reasonable doubt. The learned High Court Judge of Jaffna by Judgment dated 119/2010

convicted the accused appellant on both counts.

During the trial the District Judicial Medical Officer Sinnadure Kadiravelpillai has gIven

evidence and has stated that the death was resulted due to internal bleeding of the skull. He

stated that the child could have died instantaneously and submitted that the child was dead on

admission. He further submitted that he has examined the body of the diseased and has found

that there was only one cut injury on the deceased and there was an abrasion on the right side of

the nape and other than that there were no injuries but on his lips there were blood stains and the

reason for it is the oozing of blood due to the rupture of the base of the skull and on removing

the skin he could observe contusion and blood oozed out of it and when he examined inside of

the skull in the right side of the cerebellum there was blood and below the soft tissue by the

cerebellum was bleeding. These injuries would occur when the child had a severe blow on the

i 1 t I l

3

head. As the diseased was a small child these injuries would occur when the backside of the

ankle hangs on a cloth when hit on hard surface or floor.

The first witness Rajkumar Jayanthi has given evidence to the effect that she saw the incident

and has stated that her child was playing in the compound and thereafter on seeing the police

the accused carried the child with the legs and dashed him on the cement floor. The child was

about three and half years and was playing when the incident occurred. She saw her husband

hitting the child from a distance about 5 feet. The child seems faintish she gave him water to

drink and went near the jeep. The accused dragged her and the child and ran to the adjoining

compound. The accused had a knife in his hand. It was when she was lifted up she saw the

knife. When she regained consciousness she look for the child and found that her left hand was

missing below the wrist.

Witness Rajkumar Jayanthi who was injured with grievous injuries had a cut on the right

occipital area and her right hand completely severed left hand flex or tenders cut anQ a

Traumatic amputation of 4th and 5th left hand fingers which injuries endangered her life.

The prosecution has produced the post mortem report marked as PI and the Medico Legal

Report as P3 which documents corroborate the injuries sustained by the deceased and the

witness Rajkumar Jayanthi.

The accused in his evidence said as follows and stated that he and his wife and the child fell

down and thereafter in a state of unconsciousness the child was taken to the hospital.

Q- What happened to your child?

A- When wife tried to go to Colombo with her mother carrying the child we grappled and fell

down.

Q- Did she try to go to Colombo carrying the child?

A- Yes

Q- Did all three of you fall down?

A- Yes

Q- What happen then?

A- Elder sister came running seeing the child got a blow

fI

I

1 1 I I

4

Q- Who fell down first?

A- I, wife and child fell down together

The learned High Court Judge in his Judgement ofpg 201 had stated as follows.

"However, when the accused gave evidence, he has stated that he, his wife and the child fell

down and thereafter in a state of unconsciousness the child was taken to the hospital. When the

witnesses for the Prosecution was giving evidence, no matters were put forward regarding the

accused, his wife the 15t witness and the child falling down. When the 15t witness gave evidence

for the Prosecution, the position took up by the defence that the child ran and fell has taken a

new tum when the accused gave evidence. He has stated changing it into a new stand that the

child died due to the child, the accused and his wife the 15t witness falling down. When this

child got an injury on the head the 15t witness and the accused have stayed there. There were no

changes of the stand of the pt witness. However, as I stated earlier, the accused has taken up two

stands contradicting each other. Due to this reason and due to the contradictions in the evidence

of the accused. I reject the evidence of the accused in toto."

The Judgement in this case has been delivered in the Tamil Language and we find that has been

duly signed and delivered by the Hon. High Court Judge on 119/2010. It was the submission of

the counsel for the appellant that the Hon. High Court Judge has not complied with the

provisions of section 283 of the Criminal Procedure Code and has thus come to erroneous

findings. On a perusal the said Judgement we find that the Hon. High Court Judge has given his

reasons and has come to a correct finding. We are of the view that the Hon High Court Judge

has evaluated the evidence placed before him. It was contended by the counsel of the appellant

that the accused had acted under grave and sudden Provocation. When looking at the injuries

received by the wife of the accused and as to how the death of the child has occurred, it is

obvious that the accused had intentionally caused the death of the child and the injuries on the

injured wife. According to the evidence led in this case there had been a family dispute at that

time and the accused and his wife had gone to the police station before the incident occurred.

The accused had under taken to reconcile with his wife and has promised to take his wife and

child with him. However at that time when he went to his wife's residence, he had seen a police

jeep arriving to the premises and after seeing the police vehicle coming he has committed these

acts. We find that there is no evidence to support that the accused had acted under grave and

,

I I I 1 I

5

sudden provocation. From the material placed before us it is clear that the accused appellant had

the intention to commit the said offences and therefore, we are of the view that the accused

appellant is guilty of both the counts brought against him and as such we do not wish to interfere

with the Judgement of the learned High Court Judge. We find that the prosecution has proved its

case beyond reasonable doubt and the accused has been convicted on both counts. Hence we

affirm the conviction and the sentence imposed by Hon. High Court Judge.

However the learned counsel for the accused appellant contended that the sentence imposed on

the second count to be harsh and excessive with regard to the facts and circumstances of the

case. We have heard the submissions of the learned counsel for the appellant and the learned

Deputy Solicitor General. We find that the sentence imposed by the learned High Court Judge

to be just and reasonable. Accordingly we affirm the sentence of death imposed on the 1 st count

and the rigorous imprisonment of 10 years and Rs.25,OOO in default of which a further the term

of 2 years simple imprisonment on the second count which custodial sentence to be imposed to

run from the date of conviction.

Accordingly this appeal is dismissed.

Registrar is directed to return this Record to the High Court of Jaffna for the implementation of

the above order.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Vijith K. Malalgoda PC J(P/CA)

I agree.

PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL