==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL

OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C. A. Appeal No.534/95(F)

D.C. KALUTARA CASE NO.3368/L

Mohamed Zainudeen Mohamed Saleem

181/1, Old Road, Beruwala Defendant - Appellant (Deceased)

Mohamed Saleem Misriya No.181/ 1, Old Road, Beruwela Substituted Defendant - Appellant

VS

1. Abdul Hameed Marikkar Mohamed Ismail Marikkar 2. Mohamed Ismail Ummu Katheeja 185, Old Road, Beruwela 1 st & 2 nd Plaintiff - Respondents (Deceased)

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS:

FILED ON

DECIDED ON

Mohamed Ismail Mohamed and others

185, Sheik Jamaldeen Road, Beruwela Substituted Plaintiff - Respondents

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J

Kamran Aziz for the Appellants N.R.M.Daluwatta P.C. with Gaitri De Silva for the Respondents

02.08.2013

21 st August 2013 by the Substituted-Defendant-Appellant

28.01.2014

1 i l

CHITRASIRI, J.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the judgment dated 29th September

1995 of the learned District Judge of Kalutara. In the petition of appeal, the

defendant-appellant (hereinafter referred to as the defendant) also sought to

have the action of the plaintiff dismissed. Basically, the plaintiff-respondents'

(hereinafter referred to as the plaintiffs) action was to have a judgment,

declaring that they are entitled to the land described as Lot G in Plan No.4344

dated 06.04.1934 drawn by Arthur A Perera L.S. and to have the defendant

evicted therefrom. Learned District Judge having allowed the said claim of the

plaintiffs has decided the case in their favour.

The case of the plaintiffs had been filed on the basis of the Certificate of

Sale issued in the case bearing NO.15312 filed in the District Court of Kalutara

which was marked as P5 in evidence. In the amended plaint dated 13th June

1990, plaintiffs have stated that they became entitled to the land they claim by

virtue of the deed bearing No.4932 which right they alleged to have derived

from the aforesaid Certificate of Sale issued in terms of the Interlocutory

Decree entered in the case 15312 referred to above. (paragraphs 4 and 5 of the

said amended plaint) It had been the position of the plaintiffs right throughout

having stated so in evidence as well. (vide proceedings at page 95 in the appeal

brief) Hence, the action of the plaintiffs entirely depended upon the validity of

the aforesaid certificate of sale.

2

f

f

tf

, {

E I !

\ t

II

tIII

Learned Counsel for the respondent referring to Section 289 of the Civil

Procedure Code argued that the plaintiffs are no~_ entitled to claim clear title

from a certificate of sale unless and until a fiscal's conveyance is executed

upon the issuance of such a certificate. Section 289 of the Civil Procedure Code

reads thus:

"The right and title of the judgment-debtor or of any person

holding under him or deriving title through him to immovable property sold by virtue of an execution is not divested by the

sale until the confirmation of the sale by the court and the

execution of the Fiscal's conveyance. But if the sale is confirmed

by the court and the conveyance is executed in pursuance of the sale, the grantee in the conveyance is deemed to have been vested with the legal estate from the time of the sale".

The Law referred to in the aforesaid Section 289 of the Civil Procedure

Code had been defined and applied in numerous occasions by the Appellate

Courts in this country. In the case of Muttu Caruppen et al Vs. Rankira et al

[13 N.L.R. 326], it was mentioned that:

"the purchaser at a Fiscal's sale when the sale is confirmed by Court after the lapse of thirty days, must procure his conveyance forthwith".

Also, in the case of Hendrick Singho Vs. Kalanis Appu et al [23 N.L.R.

80], it was held that:

"Section 289 of the Civil Procedure Code does not override the

provisions of Section 238; the title of the purchaser at the

Fiscal's sale does not, on the issue of the Fiscal's Conveyance, prevail over any intermediate alienation by the

execution-debtor, unless the Fiscal's seizure was registered."

3

I

f Il

I I I ,II

Ii i

"If the seizure is not registered, the necessary implication of

Section 238 is that a bona fide private alienee is statim secures. Section 289, as regards relation back, must be read in the light -of section 328, and it is operatlon should not be extended to a case where the seizure has not been registered. "

In the case of M.M.Belin Nona vs. K.Rosalin Nona and others,

[C.A.Minutes dated 9 th June 1992 in C.A. 254/83 (F), D.C.Gampaha Case

No.11923/P], it was held that:

"Section 289 of the Civil Procedure Code makes it clear that in

the absence of a Fiscal's Conveyance the title to the property sold in execution of a decree remains vested in the judgment-debtor and further it has also been so decided in several decisions of the Supreme Court.

It has been held by the Supreme Court that although property

has been seized and sold in execution of a decree of Court, in the absence of a Fiscal's Conveyance in favour of the purchaser since title to the property remains vested in the judgment-debtor it is therefore a seizable interest which

is liable to seizure for the satisfaction of other decree vide 8 Ceylon Law Records 204".

Accordingly, it is seen that the rights of a judgment-debtor shall remain

vested in him/her until the sale is confirmed and a Fiscal's Conveyance is

executed upon issuance of a Certificate of Sale, in an action where he/she was

declared a judgment-debtor. Admittedly, no Fiscal's Conveyance had been

executed in the case 15312 filed in the District Court of Kalutara in which the

plaintiffs'rights and title alleged to have derived through the Certificate of Sale

issued in that action. Hence, the judgment-creditor in case 15312 and his

successors namely the plaintiffs cannot claim title against the judgment-

4

[

f(l,

III

I

debtors in that case or even against the persons holding under them, merely on

"' the basis of the certificate of sale marked P5.

In terms of the Interlocutory Decree marked P4 issued in the case 15312,

A.L.M.Seinudeen was the 17th defendant in that case. Meera Lebbe Marikkar

Abdul Majeed Marikkar was the 13th defendant and Majeedu Beebee was the

30th defendant. Plaintiff in his evidence had admitted that the aforesaid

Seinudeen, who was the 17th defendant in that case was the father of the

defendant (vide proceedings at page 97 in the appeal brief). In the submissions

filed in the District Court by the defendant, it is also stated that Meera Lebbe

Marikkar Abdul Majeed Marikkar and Majeedu Beebee, who were the

defendants in the case 15312, was the grandmother and the mother of the

defendant in this case respectively (vide proceedings at page 183 in the appeal

brief).

Accordingly, it is clear that the predecessors-in-title of the defendant had

been the judgment-debtors in the case 15312. Therefore, the defendant in this

case, he being a person holding under them should be able to claim protection

in terms of Section 289 of the Civil Procedure Code when no Fiscal's

Conveyance had been executed in the name of the person in whose favour the

certificate of sale had been issued.

Accordingly, in terms of Section 289 of the Civil Procedure Code, the

plaintiffs cannot claim title against the defendant in this case, to the land

referred to in the plaint on the basis of the Certificate of Sale marked P5 since

5

no Fiscal's Conveyance had been executed pursuant to the issuing of the said

Certificate of Sale in the case bearing No.15312. Therefore, it is clear that the

plaintiffs have failed to prove title to the land they claim rights in this instance

as far as the defendant is concerned. In the circumstances, it is my opinion

that the learned District Judge has misdirected herself when she decided the

case in favour of the plaintiffs.

In the circumstances, the plaintiffs are not entitled to have a judgment

as prayed for in the amended plaint. For the aforesaid reasons, the impugned

judgment dated 29th September 1995 is set aside. The action of the plaintiffs

also is dismissed. The appellants are entitled to the costs of this appeal as well.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

6

III

I

t

I