==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application in the nature of Writ of Certiorari and Mandamus m terms of Article 140 of the Constitution.

1. Rajakaruna Herat Mudiyanselage Deepa Keerthi Mahinda Bandara Rajakaruna, No.180/1, Colombo Road, Gampaha.

And another.

PETITIONERS c.A. (Writ) Application No.473/2011 Vs.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued on

Written Submission on

1. National Aquaculture Development Authority of Sri Lanka, No.41/1, New Parliament Road, Pelawatta. And 23 Others.

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

D ,H.5iriwardene

for the Petitioner

Arjuna Obeysekera DSG,

RESPONDENTS

for the 1st to 3rd,6th to 18th and 22nd Respondent

Sanjeewa Jayawadane PC,

for the 4th &5th Respondent

28.05.2013

28.06.2013 (Petitioners),12.07.2013(lst to 5th ,12th ,14th ,16th and 18th

Respondent),15.07.2013(4th and 5th Respondent)

2

Order on 01.08.2013

S.Sriskandarajah,/

The 1st Petitioner is attached to the 1st Respondent Authority as Aquatic Extension

Officer. The 2nd Petitioner is holding the post of Assistant Director at the 1st Respondent

Authority. In December 2010, the 1st Respondent had called for applications for the post of

Director (Fresh Water Aquaculture Development) and Director (Expansion). The said post,

according to the scheme of recruitment, requires the following qualifications:-

For internal candidate: They should be employed in the middle management category, Grade I,

with minimum of 5 years of service related to the field of aquaculture/extension work at the 1st

Respondent.

For external candidates: Should have a minimum of 15 years experience in managerial leveL

For Director (Fresh water Aquaculture Development): Petitioners had not applied for the said

post. For the post of Director Expansion: There were 9 candidates, including the 1st Petitioner,

applied for the said post.

After evaluating the basic qualifications of the candidates, only 3 candidates were short

listed, and the 1st Petitioner was not short-listed since he did not possess the basic requirements

for the said post. The 1st Petitioner did not challenge the said decision, not to short list him was

incorrect or he has not challenged that he had the necessary qualifications to call him for an

interview for the said post. After an interview for the post of Director, the 5th Respondent who

had the required qualifications and had secured the highest marks was appointed to the post of

Director (Fresh Water Aquaculture Development) and the 4th Respondent who was an external

candidate and possessed the required qualifications and experience, had been selected for the

post of Director Expansion.

The Petitioners in this application challenges the appointment of the 4th and 5th

Respondents who were the successful candidates in the said interview, on the basis that they

did not possess the required qualifications and, therefore, they are not entitled for the said

I

3

appointment. The Petitioners have sought a writ of certiorari in this application to quash the

decision of appointing the 4th and 5th Respondents and a writ of mandamus to call for fresh

applications and to hold interviews in respect of the said posts.

The Respondents, at the stage of argument, have raised a preliminary objection on the

basis that the Petitioners had no locus standi as they were not qualified to be appointed to the

said posts and, in particular, they had not applied for the post of Director (Fresh Water

Aquaculture Development) and in relation to the post of Director Expansion, they were not

qualified to apply for the said post. The Petitioners in their petition have specifically stated that

they have filed this application in their personal capacity. This indicates that they have not filed

this action in public interest as they have filed this action in their personal capacity, Petitioners

have to show that their rights are affected by the decision of the Respondents to get relief in

public law. In the instant case the Petitioners are not qualified to apply for the said post and,

therefore, even if the 4th and 5th Respondents' appointments are quashed, they cannot seek the

said post for themselves, and an order for calling for applications a fresh and holding a fresh

interview will not assist the Petitioners to get the said appointments. The Petitioners have failed

to demonstrate that their rights are affected in any way by the appointment of the 4th and 5th

Respondents.

The Petitioners claim that they are members of a Regional Trade Union, viz., Aquatic

Expansion Union in the National Aquaculture Development of Sri Lanka, and the 1st Petitioner

is the President of the said Union, and the 2nd Petitioner was the Secretary to the said Trade

Union at the time of filing the petition. These 2 Petitioners in their petition, had not said that

they have filed this action and challenged the appointment of the 4th and 5th Respondents in the

interests of their Trade Union or for the Members of the Trade Union. They have not pleaded

that the appointment of the 4th and 5th Respondents would cause serious concern to the

Members of their Trade Union and a resolution was passed in the Trade Union to this effect.

The Petitioners in their petition have not established that they have filed this application in

public interest. If an application is made in public interest, the Petitioners have to establish that

they have a public interest in the relief they sought and that has to be specifically averred. The

mere fact that they were Members of a Trade Union will not be sufficient to invoke the

jurisdiction of a Court in public interest. The Petitioners, on the contrary, have stated that they

I

}-r f

4

have filed this application in their personal capacity. When one files an application in his

personal capacity, the fundamental rule is that the rights of that person would have been

affected by any decision or determination for the Court to consider the issue of writ of

certiorari. Lord Justice Atkin in R Vs. the Electricih} Commissioner (1924) 1 KB 171 at 205, has

given the circumstances in which a writ of certiorari and prohibition will lie. Whether he has

held:

"Where any body of persons having legal authority to determine questions affecting the

rights of subjects and having the duty to act judicially acts in excess of their legal

authority, they are subject to the controlling jurisdiction of the Kings Bench Division

exercised in these writs."

The above judgment insists the determination of questions affecting the rights of subjects.

Therefore, in a writ application, if an application is filed in the personal capacity, the Petitioners

have to establish that their rights are affected. In the instant case the Petitioners had not applied

for the post of Director (Fresh Water Aquaculture Development) and the 15t Petitioner who

applied for the post of Director Expansion was in fact not qualified to apply for the said post. In

these circumstances the selection and the appointment of the 4th and 5th Respondents to the said

post would not have in any event affected the rights of the Petitioners and, therefore, the

objection raised by the Respondents that the Petitioners have no locus standi to file this

application is substantiated by the above facts and, therefore, this Court upholds the

preliminary objection and dismisses this application without cost.

President of the Court of Appeal