==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for a

mandate in the nature of a writ of Certiorari

and Mandamus under Article 140 of the

Constitution of the Democratic Socialist

Republic of Sri Lanka.

t.A. (Writ) Application No.326/2011

1

Thissa Attanayake

Secretart

United National Party,

'Sirikotha'

No. 400, Pita Kotte Road,

Pita Kotte.

PETITIONER

Vs

1. Commissioner General of Election

Election Secretariat

Rajagiriya.

2. H.W. Gunadasa

Returning Officer for Ratnapura

District,

Election Office

New Town, Ratnapura.

3. P.A.S. Senarathne

Returning Officer for Kolonne

Pradeshiya Saba,

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

2

Senior Assistant Commissioner of

Elections for Ratnapura District,

Election Office, New Town,

Ratnapura.

4. Susil Premajayantha,

Secretary,

United People's Freedom Alliance,

T.B. Jaya Mawatha, Colombo 10.

And 5 Others

RESPONDENTS

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

: Wijedasa Rajapakshe PC with

Dasun Nagashena for the

Petitioner.

Anusha Samaranayake SSC with

A. Fernando SC for the 1 st to 3rd

and 9th Respondents.

Kushan D. Alwis PC with

Chamath Fernando and

Jayaruwan Wijayalath Arachchi

for the 4th Respondent.

: 07th March, 2014

: 2ih June, 2014

Oeepali Wijesundera J.

A writ of certiorari to quash the results of the Kolonna Pradeshiya

Sabha Election published by the 1st respondent on 18/03/2011 and

marked as P9 is sought by the petitioner in his petition. A writ of

Mandamus is sought to direct the 1 st, 2nd and 3rd respondents to recount

the votes polled at the same election held on 17/03/2011.

The petitioner has marked and produced documents Pi to P8

with the petition and oral submissions were made before this court in

support of his application. Election for the said Pradeshiya Sabha was

declared by Pi on 06/01/2011 and the counting agents were appointed

by P4. Election was held on 17/03/2011. Votes were counted in rooms

42, 43 and 44 in Sumana Balika Vidyalaya in Ratnapura. The dispute

arose in room No. 44. The petitioner submitted that the result given

orally after the 1

st count of the United Peoples' Freedom Alliance was

later altered from 3136 to 3156 by the Chief Counting Officer of room

No. 44 which the counting agent of the United National Party

Gurusinghege Thilina Priyankara observed when asked to place his

signature in the carbon copy of the results sheet. Thilina priyankara and

3

II1li tI 1

1

1

other counting agents namely R.P. Anura, W.A. Dayananda and P.

Rajendran of the United National Party had raised their objections orally

and thereafter P .Anura has forwarded a written objection against the

said alternation to the Chief Counting Officer. Their affidavits are

marked as P8 (a) to P8 (e). A recount has not been done due to the

objections taken by the United Peoples' Freedom Alliance agents. The

petitioner submitted that the 1 st, 2nd and 3rd respondents acted illegally

and unlawfully and violated the Election Laws and therefore the

document marked P9 is against all principals of natural justice and

should be quashed. He also submitted that he is entitled by law to

obtain a writ of Mandamus to direct the 1 st, 2nd and 3rd respondents to

recount the votes polled at the said election. The counsel who made

submissions on behalf of the petitioner on 07/03/2014 in reply to the

respondent's submissions admitted that the counting agents did not

know the laws relating to the said election hence they are bound by any

order given by this court.

The respondent's argument was that the petitioner's application

was filed without naming the necessary parties as respondents and

suppressing and misrepresenting material facts and that the petitioner

has failed to act with uberrima fidei towards this court.

4

The respondents stated that the petitioner and his agents failed to

utilize their statutory rights in terms of Sec. 63 (6) and (7) of the Local

Authorities Election Ordinance No. 53 of 1946. The respondents

submitted that the said Thilina Priyankara failed to act according to the

said Ordinance and request for a recount before he placed his signature

on the results sheet.

The election was held on the 17th of March 2011 and the results

were declared on 18/0312011. The petition of the petitioner dated 26th

April 2011 has been filed one whole month and a week after the results

were declared. A recount of the ballot papers can not be ordered now

since there is a time limit for that. A recount has not been done under

section 63 (7) of the said act.

Sec 63 (7) reads thus:-

"Before the counting officer makes a written statement

referred to in subsection (6), such number of recounts may be

made as the counting officer deems necessary: and a recount or

recounts shall be made upon the application of a counting agent

so however that the maximum number of recounts that shall be so

made, on the application of any counting agent or all the counting

agents, shall not exceed two. "

5

The counting agent has signed the sheet without asking for a

recount and later made a complaint to the Chief Counting Officer. The

petitioner in paragraph 29 of his petition states;

The Petitioner states that according to the original

announcement, which was made orally at the first instance, of the

result of the Kolonna Pradeshiya Sabha, was as follows.

This shows that the said numbers of votes were never put in

writing for the counting officer to alter. The counting agent Thilina

Priyankara when placing his signature to the results sheet has noticed

the result was different to what he heard earlier. Thereafter they have

objected orally to the Chief Counting Officer. They have not even asked

for a recount. The petitioner's counsel admitted in court that the

counting agent did not know the law, relating to the said elections.

The petitioner has not made any of these persons parties to this

action. The Chief Counting Officer is a necessary party to this action.

Apart from the Counting Officer the parties who benefited from the

election have to be made parties for an application of writ of certiorari

since the petitioner is asking to quash their election.

6

The failure to join the said Chief Counting Officer of Room 44 and

the parties who benefitted from the election is a blatant violation of

principals of natural justice. The counsel for the 4th respondent cited the

following cases in support of his argument on necessary parties not

being made respondents in the petition. Gnanasambanthan Vs. Rear

Admiral Perera and others (1998) 3 SLR 169, Rawaya Publishers

and others Vs. Wijedasa Rajapaksha, Chairman Sri Lanka Press

Council and others (2001) 3 SLR 213, Farook Vs. Siriwardena

(1997) 1 SLR 145.

It is decided in all the above cases that failure to make necessary

parties respondents is fatal to a petitioner's application.

A writ of Mandamus can not be granted against the 1st, 2nd and 3rd

respondents to make a recount for the reasons stated earlier in this

judgment. For the afore stated reasons the application of the petitioner

is dismissed without costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

7