==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

1. Alagiyawanne Mohottalage Nalaka Pushpa Kumara

2. Tilak Samarawickrama

3. Liverige Nevile Roshan Fernando

4. Singakkarage Luxman Kumara alis Indunil

5. Singakkarage Nimal Gunaratne

6. Hewa Kuruwage Dilantha Niroshan alias Dila

C.A. 78-83/2005

H.C. Avissawella 97/2003

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

Anil gooneratne J. &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake J.

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

Vs.

The Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDENT

Dr. Ranjit Fernando for the 1st Accused-Appellant

G.P. Janaka Silva for the 2nd Accused-Appellant

Neranjan Jayasinghe for the 3

rd Accused-Appellant

Ranjith Meegahawatte for the 4th & 5th Accused-Appellant

Kapila Waidyaratne ASG for the Complainant-Respondent

1

2

ARGUED ON: 18.03.2014

DECIDED ON: 25.06.2014

GOONERATNE J.

Six Accused-Appellants were indicted in the High Court of Avissawella

on the following 8 counts. All of them were convicted and sentenced to life

imprisonment. I would list the several counts/charges as follows:

(a) Conspiracy to commit robbery against all Accused - Section 113 A read with

102/380 of the Pena I Code

(b) Robbery of Rs. 56,.88,000/- with fire arms against 1st 2nd and 3rd Accused-

Appellants - Section 380 and 32 of Penal Code read with Section 44 A of

the Fire Arms Ordinance.

(c) Aiding and abetting 1st to 3rd Accused-Appellants to commit robbery against

4th Accused-Appellant - Section 380 read with 102 of the Penal Code with

Section 44 A of the Fire Arms Ordinance.

(d) Same as above against 5th Accused-Appellant

(e) Same as above against 6th Accused-Appellant

(f) Retention of stolen property - Rs. 4,10,000/- against 4th Accused-Appellant

- Section 394 of the Penal Code.

4

I will refer at this point of the judgment, to the position and

submissions on behalf of the Accused-Appellants. All counsel who appeared

for the Accused-Appellants, were very much concerned and made it a point to

highlight lapses, irregularities of identification of Accused-Appellants. The 6th

Accused-Appellant expired prior to the argument stage in this court.

The learned counsel Dr. Ranjith Fernando urged the following

matters, on behalf of the 1st Accused-Appellant.

(a) Trial Judge's failure to address on the infirmities in the identification

parade pertaining to the 1st Accused-Appellant.

In this connection learned counsel submitted that the parade was

held about 4 months after the incident. Parade held on 6

th & t

h May 2003.

1st Accused was arrested and kept in custody since 21st March 2003.

Another allegation was the showing of photographs. In a gist I would refer

to the following as submitted by learned counsel.

P.W. Rodney Perera -Manager, HSBC-

states that he did not/could not identify those who entered.

P.W. Kumari - Cashier ,HSBC-

states that she was not able to identify anyone at the parade.

P.W.Seneviratne Employee ,HSBC-

testifies that photographs had been shown to him at the police station

Thalangama. He had participated at the IDP but unable to identify anyone.

• 5

P.W.Bandara - Employee, HSBC-

states that he identified Al, A2 and A3 at the parade. He further states that

photographs had been shown to him at the police station.

P.W. Wickramasinghe, Cashier, HSBC-

testifies that photograph shown to them by the CID and that he identified

three of the persons who came for the robbery.

P.W.Perera, Asst. Manager, HSBC-

states that he identified Al, A2 and A3 at the parade. He also states that

photographs had been shown to them at the police station.

P.W.Anura, Employee HSBC-

states that he participated at the IDP and identified the 1st accused. He

further states that photographs had been shown to him at the police

station.

P.W.Rajaratne ( Magistrate) -

states that two IDP's had been held and that the lst,2

nd and 3

rd accused had

been identified by some of the witnesses on the two days and the reports

produced in Court as P3 and P4 .

(b) Based on the above infirmities counsel also referred to the question of

showing photograph by the police to the witnesses. Some witnesses

were unable to identify in spite of close proximity encounter on broad

day light. As such it is unsafe to act on such evidence. Trial Judge has not

considered such lapses.

6

(c) Further the evidence relating to use of fire arms not established by the

prosecution beyond reasonable doubt. The learned counsel categorize

the evidence on point as follows:

P.W.Rodney Perera,Manager HSBC-

He testifies that at one stage he sees only two persons entering the bank

armed with a 'pistol'. He also says he heard the noise of the 'gunshot'. His

evidence indicates that 1st Accused was at the main door and that he did

not do anything. However he states that 3

rd Accused had a 'gun' in his hand

and he entered a bank. He further testifies later that four persons entered

the bank and that three of them had been armed with 'firearm'.

P.W.Kulasingham, Customer, at HSBC-

States that there were three persons with 'firearms'. Further he states that

one of them 'fired' a shot.

P.W.Kumari, Cashier HSBC-

States that she hears noise of 'shooting' and that one of the men had a

'weapon'. She further states that four people were involved and that only

one of them was armed with a weapon.

P.W.Fernando, Employee HSBC-

States that there were four to five people who entered bank and that they

had 'weapons' with them.

P.W.Bandara, Employee HSBC-

States that several people entered bank. That they had 'weapons' in their

hands. That one of them fired a shot. That the 1st accused had a T56

7

weapon and a 3

rd accused had a weapon. He had in his statement to the

police stated he cannot say who fired a weapon.

P.W. Wickramasinghe, Cashier HSBC-

States that two persons entered the bank and one of them had a weapon.

P.W.Perera, Asst. Manager, HSBC-

States that three persons entered the bank and that two of them had

weapons which he described as 'T56" and a 'repeater" This witness further

testified that 1st accused had a 'T56" and that 3rd accused also had a T 56

with him. However in his statement to the police and he stated that he was

unable to say the type of weapon marked '3V2'.

P.W.Lalith, Customer, HSBC-

States that whilst at the bank he saw a person with a gun.

P.W.Anura, Employee HSBC-

States that he saw people entering the bank with guns. His further state

that he heard a gun shot sound from inside the bank as he was outside

bank. This witness further goes to the extent of stating that he saw Ai firing

a T56 which was with him.

P.W.Pathirana, Police officer-

Testifies that on inspecting the scene he had found two live bullets and one

empty cartridge. These had been given to him by another police officer. It is

to be noted that finding live bullets of different caliber measurement

purportedly fired from a repeater automatic T56 weapon would be highly

improbable unlike a use of single shot at a time fire arm It is further to be

noted that these bullets/cartridges had not been reported upon by any

8

Government Analysis or Ballistic Expert to confirm recent usage and type of

weapon.

P.W.Udaya Kumara, Police Officer-

States that there was a mark of a gunshot inside bank and that a glass pane

had been broken. He further states that he recovered two live T56 bullets

and also a single empty cartridge. These are the items he had handed over

to P.W.Pathirana.

Learned counsel for 1st Accused-Appellant argues there was no

Section 27 recovery as per the Evidence Ordinance of any fire arm, or cash

from the statement made by the 1st Accused. No experts report obtained on

recovery of ammunition or bullets marks on the wall. In view of (c ) above it is

essential to have a report from an expert.

Learned counsel for the 2

nd Accused-Appellant argued that there is

no evidence to support that the Appellant committed an offence under the

Fire Arms Ordinance. He also states that there is an absence of common

intention. Trial Judge does not give cogent reasons to convict his client under

the Fire Arms Ordinance. 2nd Accused-Appellant relies on the evidence of

prosecution witness Abeyratne Banda and Dilshan Shaminda Perera which

corroborate that the Accused did not carry a fire arm. Further on the point of

9 t

common intention the prosecution had failed to lead evidence of a previous

pure plan.

The learned counsel for the 3

rd Accused-Appellant associated with

the submissions made on behalf of the 1st Accused-Appellant. He emphasized

that the witnesses were not able to identify the Accused-Appellant. An

omission was marked on witness Rodney Perera's evidence and that he failed

to give a description to the police. Omissions not considered by the trial Judge.

The learned counsel relies on Rex. Vs. Turnbull. Trial Judge has ignored such

dicta.

Learned counsel for 4th & 5th Accused commenced their submissions

by stating that 4th & 5th Accused-Appellants were not identified. On the

question of Section 27 recovery of Rs. 4,10,000/- from 4th Accused and the 5th

Accused a sum of Rs. 7,92,000/- could only infer knowledge and nothing more.

Counsel is critical of trial Judge's views on the dock statements.

The learned Additional Solicitor General contends that one of the

main witness Rodney Perera the Manager of the Bank without any difficulty

identified the 1st & 3nd Accused-Appellants at the identification parade and in

open court also identified both the 1st & 3

rd Accused. The 1

st Accused was

identified with a automatic weapon standing near the door, and the 3

rd

10

Accused armed with a gun inside the bank hall. In cross-examination the

position of the defence that 1st Accused was shown to him and the suggestion

on behalf of 3

rd Accused shown were denied by the witness. Showing of any

photographs were admitted only for investigation purposes by the police.

Photographs shown long before the arrest of Accused person. In fact the

photographs shown were not that of the Accused. There was no cross-

examination by the counsel for 2

nd Accused of this witness. It was the position

of the other witness that photographs were shown only for investigation

purposes and that the photographs were not that of the Accused person. All

these happened prior to arrest of Accused persons (showing of photograph)

and as such it cannot harm the prosecution case in any event and this cannot

be objectionable in the context of the case.

It was the position of the learned Additional Solicitor General that

many witnesses were able to identify the Accused persons more particular 1st

to 3rd Accused and the 6

th Accused. Learned counsel for the Respondent also

dealt with the police evidence and also the defence case in detail. Dock

statement of 1st & 2nd Accused and the 3

rd Accused were analysed and he

placed material to reject or disbelieve same.

,

I I I J

t 1

I

11 r!

The evidence led in this case through several prosecution witnesses

create or produce vivid impressions of the incident of robbery at the HSBC

Pelawatta branch. The question of robbery of a large sum of money in broad

day light from the above bank or the incident of robbery of money is not in

doubt but it is the identity of the perpetration of the crime that needs to be

examined carefully. Especially when the indictment had been forwarded

connecting robbery with forearms. The main witness the Bank Manager.

Mr. Rodney Perera having described the incident was able to identify the 1st

and 3

rd accused-appellants at the Identification parade and as well as in Open

Court. This witness identified the 1st accused-appellant at the trial who was

armed with an Automatic weapon and standing near the door. The 3

rd

accused was armed with an automatic weapon inside the Bank hall. I find that

in cross examination the witness categorically denied suggestions made on

behalf of the several accused and maintained his position right through the

trial as regards identity of accused. The question posed by the Defense that

the witness visited the police on several occasions was not denied but it was

done so for investigation purposes. The allegation of the defence of showing

photographs was not denied but he explained that the photographs were

shown which were not of the accused persons. This had happened

12

immediately after the incident for investigations purposes. The trial judge

observes that there were no contradiction or omissions.

This witness Rodney Perera was not cross-examined by the 2

nd

accused-appellant, may be since the witness did not bring the 2nd accused

as a person identified by him. The trial Judge has given his mind to the

position as regards the material elicited in cross-examination

on behalf of the 3

rd accused-appellant. It is stated by the trial judge that the

witness could not identify the person who came into the glass cubicle

armed with a weapon who came near the safe/valet. Learned High Court

Judge also referred to the omission connecting the tags P1 and P1a (pgs

925-926). Although counsel for the 1st accused-appellant was referring to

the trial judges lapses, it does not appear to be so, since whatever material

elicited on behalf of the appellants have been considered. This Court

observes that the witness Rodney Perera cannot be an untruthful witness

and his testimony adds certain items of evidence to establish the

consistency of the prosecution case. I do not think that the trial Judge as

regards the identity projected by the prosecution witness No.1 need to go

to the extent of comparing same with the Dicta in Rex Vs Turnbull though

one could gather points on visual identification.

t,

I

13

The lay witness Sivajothi who was a customer of the Bank who

witnessed the entire incident as at the material time and he was inside the

bank making arrangement with witness No.1 Rodney Perera to open an

account. He saw the persons entering the Bank with weapons, how the

Bank official were threatened, opening of the safe and collection of money

by the robbers. As the prosecution describes, his evidence was unassailed

and unchallenged. Bank witness Dilhani Bandula Kumari was in the counter

with cashier Niranjani. This evidence unchallenged as regards the amount

of money she received at the beginning of the day kept in her custody

amounting to Rs. 9,00,000/- plus bait money Rs. 100,000/- The bank tags

identified with signature, recovered from the 5th accused-appellant (P1a)

However this witness could not identify any of the accused persons at the

identification parade. The suggestion in cross examination of showing

photographs admitted for investigation purposes, but not that of the

severa! accused. The trial Judge had carefully examined evidence of witness

Sivajothi, which description of the incident from the beginning to the end

which could not be contested by the Defence irrespective of identifying the

accused by this witness and satisfied as to the number of robbers who

were armed and where the robbers were positioned and what they did

t!i

II

14

and uttered as well as collecting and taking possession of bank money

from the safe and counters.

The trial judge has also given his mind to the testimony of the

other witness Dilhani Bandula Kumari. The material aspect of this part of the

evidence is based on the amount of money she recovered and the sums of

money handed over to the accused persons under threat. The tag marked Pla

was identified. Trial Judge analyses the defence suggestion made to witnesses,

showing of photographs, recording of statements, and showing of accused

persons in the Police. Trial Judge very correctly concludes that by the time the

suggested allegation that surfaced, the accused were not even arrested. Trial

Judge rejects the position of the defense. As regard witness Sayomi Sanjana

Ehellepola, does not reveal much evidence for the prosecution and the witness

cannot remember many details. Witness Reinze Fernando describes the

incident but his position of 4 armed persons entering the premises was subject

to cross examination by the defence. He was not taken to Thalangama and

Mirihana Police. Witness Niranjali Wickramasinghe could not identify any

accused person, but support Dilhani on other aspects.

15 t

The trial Judge has also referred to the other two important witnesses for

the prosecution namely Abeyratne Banda and Asst. Manager Dilhara

Perera. Abeyratne Banda testified that 4 persons entered the Bank and two

were armed. He identified the 1

st,2

nd and 3

rd accused at the parade. 1st and 3rd

were identified as armed robbers. The person who was holding bundles of

cash against his stomach as the 2

nd accused-appellant. The above defence

position were denied and rejected by this witness as considered by the trial

Judge. Photographs shows for investigation purposes. The several items of

evidence led through this witness seemsto be closely observed by the trial

judge.

Dilhan Perera testified that 3 persons entered the Bank and

two were armed. The 3

rd suspect was near the counter. Manager called him to

bring the keys of the safe. At the parade he identified 1

st accused armed with a

T 56 and 2nd accused was unarmed, he jumped over the counter and later

brought the fertilizer bag to collect money from the safe. The 3

rd accused

identified as the person who threatened with a gun in hand. In cross

examination the suggestion of defence denied. This witness by assisting in

opening of the safe since he had the keys with him was in close proximity to

the entire incident. As such he would have had a better picture and an

• I i ~ l I I i

16

understanding of what really took place. The employee Anura who was a

cleaner employed of the bank identified the 1st accused -appellant at a

parade. The other important item of evidence is from the Police party who

arrested the suspects after about 2 months from the date of incident and

recovery of the Bank money at various points based on Section 27 of the

Evidence Ordinance statements. I have to comment that all the evidence that

transpired from the official police witnesses had been well considered by the

trial judge. However the defence position concerns this Court, is the

requirement of an experts report essential when and adopting the provisions

of the Firearms Ordinance to the case in hand? I will deal with this aspect at a

later stage in this Judgment. The type of police evidence (unchallenged) could

be summarized as follows .

5.1. Udaya Kumara_- observe the scene of the crime recovered to T.56 live

bullets and one used T.56 bullet casing. Imprint of rubber slippers on top of

the counter. Details of currency obtains.

I.PJayaweera_- copy of the list of serial numbers pertaining to bait money.

5.I-Abdeah arrested - 4th and 5th 3ccused (brothers) on 07.03.2003 at

Udawalawe in 5th accused house. On 4th accused statement recovered

Rs. 400,000/- in Rs.I000/- notes.

17

S.I.Abdeen- another Rs. 10,000/- recovered inside a spectacle

case. P1 tag recovered. Based on the 5th accused statement recovered Rs.

292,000/- Tag produced as P1c. Bait money in Rs. 1000/-

S.I.Amarasinghe - arrested 1st and 3rd accused statement

recovered Rs. 1,25,000/-

The Defense case also cannot be considered lightly in the

background of all the facts and circumstances that surfaced from the

prosecution version. The 1st and 2

nd accused-appellants made dock statements

stating that they have nothing to say. I do agree with the submissions of

learned Addl. Solicitor General that explanation should have been forthcoming

from thos,e two appellants based on the aspects of facts connecting the cross

examination by them of the prosecution witnesses. The story of showing

photographs would be an important aspect to be explained.

The 3rd accused-appellant in his dock statement denies any

involvement. His position is that he was in the house of the 1st accused and to

repair a trishaw. He alleges that he was shown to witnesses prior to the

parade at the Mirihana Police. As the prosecution submits this accused could

not say who the witness who saw him. The 4th and 5th accused also made a

r I III

I

II

18 I

dock statements. They have not explained as to how the large sum of money I

was in their possession.

The Appeal before us is a case of armed robbery of a reputed bank

involving a large sum of money. I do not think it is necessary to once again

describe the incident and the incident of robbery was well explained by many

witnesses who gave evidence from the Bank and the lay witness Sivajothi. As

such there cannot be a denial of such an incident, with evidence which

remain unchallenged of the incident. However the defence attacks the entire

episode based mainly on identification from which certain aspects connected

to it i.e showing of photographs, showing of accused persons have been

projected by the accused party to create a reasonable doubt, and if successful

all concerned have to be acquitted.

One must always bear in mind that the incident of robbery in a Bank

cannot be detected easily unless the Police team is assisted by the Public, Bank

officials and customers who were within the vicinity of the robbery. As such

investigations play a major role and might be somewhat time consuming

considering the nature and magnitude of the act of robbery itself. In this

regard I will divert the attention of all concerned to the following extract from

19

a passage dealing with successful investigation from the Hand Book of

'Criminallnvestigations'- by Col. Maurice, J Fitzgerald MPC. U. S. Army, at pg.3.

"The modern successful investigator must be skilled in obtaining information from both

physical evidence and the testimony of those concerned with a crime. He must know just

what evidence lends itself to scientific evaluation in the police laboratory by skilled

technicians, as well as how to preserve and transport such evidence. And he must also be

skilled in the interviewing of victims and witnesses of crime, and the interrogating of

suspects. Lastly, he must know what evidence is necessary to prove the essential elements

of the crime charged.

Criminal investigation has three initial phases that the successful investigator must always

bear in mind. First, has a crime been committed? Second, if so, what crime? Third, who

committed such crime?

When it is determined what crime has been committed, all efforts are directed toward

recording the facts of the crime, identification of the perpetrator and his apprehension and

arrest, as well as the collection and preservation of sufficient evidence for conviction. The

investigator must procure testimony and physical evidence that will be admissible -

evidence that will withstand the attacks of the defendant's counsel and that will be

understood by a jury.

Where at an identification parade, the accused was identified by a

witness and the later in the course of his evidence stated that he was not quite

certain of the identity of the accused held that the evidence of a person who

was present at the parade was admissible to establish that the accused was

I

II I l

F' f !

t t II

20

identified by the witness Bertholomeuse vs Kularatne 34 NLR 317.

Identification of an arrested person must be carried out in such a way that not

only must the identifying witness be given every reasonable chance of being

right, but must also be given every reasonable chance of being wrong 39 NLR

65 {1937}.

The Magistrate who held the identification parade on 06.05.2003 and

07.05.2003 confirmed that 1st,2

nd and 3

rd accused-appellants were identified at

the parade. Further the main witnesses for the prosecution called from the

Bank too identified these accused-appellants in open Court as and when the

witnesses were questioned regarding identity. Whatever suggestions in cross

examination were answered in favour of the prosecution by the Bank

witnesses and some of them who were not sure of the position gave correct

answers by admitting the questions put to them. What has been elicited by

the Defense had not harmed the prosecution case, as described above. Trial

Judge has no doubt involved in hearing a long trial which went on for several

days and in his judgment dealt with all important aspects and held that the

prosecution has proved the case beyond reasonable doubt. However this

Court wish to observe the following based on the Firearms Ordinance,

connectirg counts Nos.2,3 al1d 4 of the indictment.

l

21

Sec. 44A of the Firearms ( Amendment) Act No.22 of 1996 reads

thus:- "Notwithstanding anything in this Ordinance or any other law, any

person who uses a gun in the commission an offense specified in Schedule 'c'

of this Ordinance shall be punished on conviction for such offence with death

or imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty

thousand rupees."

Schedule 'e' above include section 380-385 (robbery). The term 'Gun' is

defined in Sec. 2 of the Firearms Ordinance as follows.

"Gun" includes- (a) any barreled weapon of any description from

which any shot, pellet or other missile can be discharged with sufficient

force to penetrate rot less than eight strawboards, each of three sixty-

fourth of an inch thickness placed one-half of an inch apart, the first such

strawboard being at a distance of fifty feet from the muzzle of the weapon,

the plane of the strawboards being perpendicular to the line of fire; or

(b) any component part of any such weapon; Ot"

(c) any accessory to any such weapon designed or adapted.

(i) To diminish the noise or flash caused by firing the weapon; or

(ii) To facilitate the aiming of the weapon; or

~

f III

22

(d) Any weapon of whatever description designed or adapted for the

discharge of any noxious substance.

No doubt there is evidence both from official and lay witnesses that Firearms

were used for the commission of the offence. Learned Addl. Solicitor General

has cited the case of Wijeratne Banda Vs The State 1998 (3) SLR 86 that the

testimonial trustworthiness of the prosecution witness is sufficient to arrive at

a favorable conclusion that in fact a gun was used. Nevertheless when I

peruse the definition of 'gun' as in the Firearms Ordinance, (a) to (d) of the

definition contemplate a variety of meanings, and it is essential to form an

opinion that (a) to (d) (either of it) whether it need to be verified by an

expert, if the prosecution includes a charge under sec. 44A of the Firearms

Ordinance, more so as it involves life punishment. It is essential to prove this

aspect beyond reasonable doubt. In the absence of a report of an expert

would not mean that the prosecution case is not proved. It is my view that it

would be desirable to have a report, but not essential to prove the case

beyond reasonable doubt. The official and lay witnesses testified with ample

material and evidence as to the type of weapon/gun that was used in

committing the act of robbery. A gun shot fired and damaged a glass pane, and

from the scene of the crime T-56 live bullets and one used T-56 bullet casing

f I

I

r

22

(d) Any weapon of whatever description designed or adapted for the

discharge of any noxious substance.

No doubt there is evidence both from official and lay witnesses that Firearms

were used for the commission of the offence. Learned Addl. Solicitor General

has cited the case of Wijeratne Banda Vs The State 1998 (3) SLR 86 that the

testimonial trustworthiness of the prosecution witness is sufficient to arrive at

a favorable conclusion that in fact a gun was used. Nevertheless when I

peruse the definition of 'gun' as in the Firearms Ordinance, (a) to (d) of the

definition contemplate a variety of meanings, and it is essential to form an

opinion that (a) to (d) (either of it) whether it need to be verified by an

expert, if the prosecution includes a charge under sec. 44A of the Firearms

Ordinance, more so as it involves life punishment. It is essential to prove this

aspect beyond reasonable doubt. In the absence of a report of an expert

would not mean that the prosecution case is not proved. It is my view that it

would be desirable to have a report, but not essential to prove the case

beyond reasonable doubt. The official and lay witnesses testified with ample

material and evidence as to the type of weapon/gun that was used in

committing the act of robbery. A gun shot fired and damaged a glass pane, and

from the scene of the crime T-56 live bullets and one used T-56 bullet casing

, , IIi i i I! ! I

~ I Ir

f I I

23

recovered. The identification of the type of gun, its use at the scene of the

crime and recovering empty bullets would be sufficient to bring the case

within the provisions of the Fire Arms Ordinance. As such an experts report

would not be essential.

The several items of evidence collected and placed before the trial

court and considering all in its entirety no doubt is directed to the commission

of the offence of robbery with a common plan and design involving all the

Accused. It is evident that looking at the entire episode the 1st to 3rd had a role

to play with restraint/threat caused to the Bank officials and customers and

the collection of money with threat and to have fled the scene with others (4th

to 6th Accused). The 4th to 6

th Accused-Appellant took hold and custody of the

money robbed from the bank and kept with them the entire loot at a faraway

place, may be put it for good use and share it among themselves at some point

of time. The anticipated plan of all the Accused were successful, until arrested

by the police. The items of evidence led at the trial does not stand alone but

connected to each other thus proving the prosecution case beyond reasonable

doubt.

f Ir t II

i

f

c

24

In the above circumstances we are not inclined to interfere with the

findings of the learned High Court Judge. We affirm the conviction and

sentence. Appeal dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake J.

I agree.

~:::-12~ "--5) ~~

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

II

I

\