==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C. A. Land Acq.05/2013

Dhammika Nissanka Gunasekera No. 19, Deal Place A, Colombo 03.

Substituted -Appellant-Appellant -Vs- The Acquiring Officer/Divisional Secretary Greater Colombo Flood Control Project Divisional Secretariat, Sri Jayawardanepura Mw., Welikada, Rajagiriya.

Respondent - Respondent L.H.G. Weerasekera (Chairman) W. Panditharathne (Member) M.D.E.S. Gunatilaka (Member) Members of the Land Acquisition Board of Review, No. 70,2/2, Y.M.B.A. Building, Borella, Colombo 08.

Respondents

C.A. Landi Acq./05/20 13 Land Acquisition Board of Review

Appeal No. BRl15112003/CL

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

K.T. Chitrasiri,J.

K.T. Chitrasiri,J. &

L.T.B. Dehideniya,J.

Parakkrama Karunaratne with Berti Mihindukulasuriya

for the Substituted Appellant-Appellant

Anusha Fernando, S.S.C. for the 1 st Respondent-

Respondent

2nd, 3rd & 4th Respondents are absent and unrepresented.

19.03.2015.

Both Counsel submit that the presence of the 2nd, 3rd and the 4th

Respondents in this appeal is not required as they are only the members of

the Appellate Tribunal and also due to the fact that no relief is sought from

them.

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases.

This is an appeal filed in terms of the provisions contained in the Land

Acquisition Act as amended, seeking to set aside the decision/order dated

16.09.2013 of the Land Acquisition Board of Review. In the prayer to the

Petition of Appeal, the Appellant also has sought that the amount of

compensation awarded by the Land Acquisition Board of Review be

enhanced. However, at this stage learned Counsel for the Appellant submits

that his application to have the compensation will be restricted to Rs.

50,0001- per perch and will not pursue to have the amount prayed for in the

prayer to the appeal.

We note that an order dated 09.11.2006 had been made in respect of

the adjacent land by the same Land Acquisition Board of Review by which

the Board of Review has decided Rs. 50,0001- per perch as its market value.

The said decision is found in paragraph 3 in page 46 of the appeal brief.

The aforesaid order dated 09.11.2006 had been produced in evidence

marked as A3a in this application when it was taken up for inquiry before

the Land Acquisition Board of Review.

The Land Acquisition Board of Review in this application has come

to the conclusion that such an order will not help determining the market

value of the land subjected to in this case despite it was an item of evidence

led before the tribunal. However, we also observe that there is evidence to

show that the order in that other matter had been decided upon considering

the relevant material when the market value in that application was

determined by the Tribunal. Therefore, it is our view that the Board of

Review has misdirected when it refused to rely upon the market value

referred to in the order dated 09.11.2006 made in the other matter. Also,

we do not see any reason as to why the market value decided in respect of

the adjacent land should not be accepted as the market value for the land

subjected to in this case when the two decisions have been made within a

short period of time. The decision as to the market value in respect of the

matter referred to in the document marked A3a had been decided having

taken the relevant date as 05.02.2001 whilst the relevant date in this case is

24.08.2000. Furthermore, in the event, we decide not to disturb the order in

this case, it will lead to absurdity since the market value in respect of the

adjacent land has already been accepted as the market value by the same

Board of Review.

In the circumstances, having considered the market value in respect of

the adjoining land that was decided by the same Tribunal few months before

the impugned decision, we set aside the order dated 16.09.2013 of the Land

Acquisition Board of Review and substitute the following order thereto.

Order

Appellant IS entitled to Rs. 50,0001- per perch as compensation

payable for the land subjected to in this appeal which contains an extent of

OA-3R-03.38P (0.3122Ha.). Under Section 35 of the Land Acquisition

Act, the Appellant is also entitled to recover the interest as referred to

therein.

For the aforesaid reasons, this appeal is allowed. No costs.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

L.T.B. Dehideniya,J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Cr/-