==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CAl998/96 (F)

DC/Colom bol169091L

Before A.W.A. Salam,}.

Counsel

Melani Dilkushi Silva nee Gomes

129, Church Road,

Mattakkuliya, Colombo 15

Plaintiff-Appellant

Vs.

Mareena Wyman,

79, St; Maries Road, Mattakkuliya,

Colombo 15

Defendant-Respondent

Athula Perera for plaintiff- appellants and S N Trimanna with Sulari Gamage for the defendant-respondent. Written Submissions Filed on: 08.11.2010 Decided on: 27.04.2011

The plaintiff filed action against the defendant and averred

interalia that by virtue of Deed of Gift 329 dated 21.8.1991, she

became the owner of the premises in dispute and that the

defendant without acknowledging her ownership is in unlawful

possession. The plaintiff prayed for a declaration of ~itle to the

premises and ejectment of the defendant. By way of :ncidental

relief she prayed 4500/- a month by way of damages until she

is placed in possession.

The defendant maintained that no cause of action had accrued

to the plaintiff to sue her as she had never disputed the rights

of the plaintiff. The factual background of the case as transpired

in the answer is that the mother of the plaintiff Soma

Serasingha Gomez as the landlady of the premises had let the

same to the defendant since December 1977. The defendant

further stated in her answer that the mother of the plaintiff and

the plaintiffs attorney at law by two separate letters dated

30.11.1993 requested her to pay rent to the plaintiff with effect

from 1.12.1993 and that she received both letters on 7.12.1993.

However, prior to the receipt of the above letters, the defendant

on 7.12.1993 had obtained a money order for Rs. 150/- and

upon the defendant informing the plaintiff of the same, plaintiff

requested the defendant to ignore the letters dated 30.11.1993

and specifically instructed her to continue with the same mode

of payment of monthly rental to her mother. The defendant

therefore had continued to send money orders to the plaintiffs

mother and remarkably none of them had been ever returned

undelivered and the plaintiffs mother had in fact en cashed

some of them.

rn >

...l ...... 0-o 0-10 .... ...... o .c

S o "0 () ...... () Cl

10 0-0-.... ...... 00 0-0--< ()

2

However she states that to her utter disappointment on

28.01.1996, she received summons in the case and thereafter

received 8 money orders drawn in favour of the mother of the

plaintiff. It is her position that some of the money orders after

the receipt of the letters dated 30.11. 1993 had been encashed

with the knowledge of the plaintiff. In the circumstances, the

defendant sought the dismissal of the plaint.

On 23rd February 1996, when the matter came up for trial two

admissions were recorded. By these admissions the parties

admitted the jurisdiction of court and the ownership of the

plaintiff to premises in suit. Thereafter, 18 issues were recorded

of which the first four were suggested by the plaintiff and the

rest by the defendant. Subsequently, the matter was re-fixed for

further trial. When it came up for further trial the defendant

moved that issues 5 to 12 be tried as preliminary questions of

law and it was acceded to by court of consent of parties subject

to the rights reserved in them to tender written submissions. As

regards the preliminary questions of law raised by the

cefendant, the plaintiff tendered written submissions inviting

the court to hold on issues 5 to 12 in favour of her while the

defendant invited court to dismiss the plaintiffs action. The

'" >

...:l ...... 0\ o 0\ '" .... ...... o .a 8 o "0 u ...... U Q

'" 0\ 0\ .... ...... 00 0\ 0\ « u

learned District Judge thereafter delivered her order upholding

the preliminary objections and dismissed the plaintiffs action

subject to costs. The present appeal has been preferred against

the said order of the learned district judge in dismissing the

plaintiffs action on the aforesaid preliminary issues.

On a perusal of the issues numbered as 5 to 12, it is quite

apparent that the answers to them depends both on questions

of fact and law. As far as the cause of action pleaded in the

plaint is concerned, it is quite clear that in paragraph 4 of the

plaint, she has clearly stated that the defendant is in unlawful

possession of the premises, disputing the title of the plaintiff. In

other words the plaintiff has sought to prove unlawful

possession of the subject matter by the defendant by reason of

non - attornment.

As regards the invitation for attornment, parties were obviously

at variance since the defendant maintained that she never

disputed the rights of the plaintiff while the plaintiff maintained

a contrary position. In elaborating the factual position, the

defendant had clearly set out the circumstances under which

she became a tenant of the mother of the plaintiff and further

adduced reasons to justify the monthly payments of rental to

rn >

...l ...... 01 o 01 10 .... ...... o .0 S o "0 () ...... () Q

10 01 01 .... ...... co 01 01 ..: ()

4

the mother of the plaintiff, despite the letters dated 30.11.1993

requesting the defendant to pay rents to the plaintiff direct.

As far as the plaintiff is concerned the alleged payments made

by the defendant to the mother of the plaintiff despite the

request for attornment is a refusal on the part of the defendant

to accept the plaintiff as the owner of the tenanted premises

and failure on her part to attorn to the plaintiff. If the version of

the defendant is believed then the acquiesce of the plaintiff with

arrangement made by the defendant to pay the rents to the

mother of the plaintiff would amount to condoning or approving

the said arrangement. As has been submitted by the learned

counsel for the appellant, if the defendant had refused and/or

failed to attorn to the plaintiff there could not be contract of

tenancy between the parties and the provisions of the Rent Act

would not be then applicable. In any event, whether the

defendant had disputed the rights of the plaintiff or not it is a

pure question of fact and therefore needs to be resolved only

after both parties are afforded the opportunity of adducing

evidence.

In Muthukrishna vs Gomes 1994 (3) SLR 01, the plaintiff filed

action against her tenant who died pending the determination

rtl >

....l ....... '" o '" 10 ..... ....... o .0 S o "0 u ....... u Cl

10 '" '" ..... ....... 00 '" '" <: u

5

of it and her heirs were substituted. The defendant filed answer

claiming that her husband who was the tenant had died leaving

a Last Will devising the premises in suit to his widow

(defendant), three children and a brother. It was contended in

that case that an application should have been made by the

landlady for an order under section 36(3) of the Rent Act as to

who should be treated as the tenant. The substituted plaintiffs

denied that the defendant was the widow. The issue as to

whether the defendant was a widow was tried as a preliminary

issue. It was held that under section 147 of the Civil Procedure

Code for a case to be disposed of on a preliminary issue, it

should be a pure question of law which goes to the root of the

case. As the plaintiff alleged that the defendant had no rights

and was in the position of a trespasser, it was open to her to file

action without making an application to the Rent Board under

section 36(3). According to the plaintiff, the defendant did not

come within the class of persons enumerated in section 36(2) (c)

(i) of the Rent Act. If the defendant adduced proof that she is

the lawful wife of the deceased tenant plaintiffs action would

have to be dismissed. In that case Wijeyaratna J observed as

follows ...

"Judges of original courts should, as far as practicable, go through the entire trial and ans'wer all the issues unless they are certain that a pure question of law without the leading

....l ---Cl'I o Cl'I 10 ...... ---o .D a o "0 tl ---tl Cl

10 Cl'I Cl'I ...... ---00 Cl'I Cl'I ct: tl

6

of evidence (apart from formal evidence) can dispose of the case".

As far as the facts in this case are concerned there is no

difficulty in holding that issues 5, 6, 7 and 8 are based on

questions of facts and therefore cannot be answered without

evidence.

Issue 9 relates to the alleged legal defect of the plaint. The

defendant has failed to adduce any reason as to why she

maintained that the plaint is inconsistent with the law. This

issue appears to be vague and needs to be reframed. One of the

defects as referred to by the defendant is that in the plaint, no

specific date has been mentioned as to when the defendant

started disputing the rights of the plaintiff. The learned counsel

for the appellant has submitted that if the position of the

defendant was that if she relied on prescriptive rights to the

subject matter much importance would attach to the date on

which the defendant disputed the rights of the plaintiff and as

the defence is that she is the tenant of the premises in dispute

the so called defect pointed out by the defendant cannot be

considered as a defect that goes to the root of the case. I am in

total agreement with the learned counsel on this matter and the

rIl >

7

learned district judge should not have dismissed the plaint on

such an unimportant technical ground.

The plaintiffs action is for a declaration of title alleging that the

defendant was disputing her rights as the owner. In such a case

when the title is admitted the burden is on the defendant to

establish the legality of her possession. However the defendant

in this case has taken up the position that she received notice

both from the plaintiffs mother and also the plaintiff to pay the

rents to the plaintiff but yet she continued to pay rents to the

plaintiffs mother for reasons stated by her in the answer. This

being a pure question of mixed fact and law the learned district

judge in any event should not have dismissed the plaintiffs

action at the initial stage of the trial.

As regards issues 11 and 12, it is to be observed that the

plaintiff in her plaint has clearly indicated that the defendant is

in wrongful possession of the property of which the plaintiff

claimed that she is the owner and that she was seeking a

declaration of title to the said property due to the refusal of the

defendant to accept the plaintiff as the owner. In the

circumstances, in order to ascertain as to whether a valid cause

of action has been pleaded in the plaint one has to read the

rJl >

....:l ...... 0\ o 0\ \0 ...... ...... o .0 a o "0 u ...... u Cl

\0 0\ 0\ ...... ...... 00 0\ 0\ < U

8

•

plaint in its entirety. When the plaint is so read, I do not think

that anyone would conclude that the plaint is devoid of a cause

of action.

For reasons stated above, it is my considered view that the

impugned order of the learned district judge dated 5.12.1996

should be set aside and the case must be reheard. In the

circumstances, I allow the appeal and send the case back for

retrial. There shall be no costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Kwkj-

rJl >

....l -.... '" o '" 10 .-< -.... o .0 8 o '0 u -.... u Cl

10 '" '" .-< -.... co '" '" ct: U

9