==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I I j J t ! 1

j I I I I

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 585/2010 (Writ)

E.M.M.B. Ekanayake

"Rohana",

Bogahakumbura.

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. Anura Priyadarshana Yapa

Hon. Minister of Environment & Natural Resources

Ministry of Environment & Natural Resources

82, Rajamalwatta Road,

Battaramulla.

2. M. A. R. D. Jayathillaka

Secretary,

Ministry of Environment & Natural Resources

82, Rajamalwatta Road,

Battaramulla.

3. B. A. Peiris

Deputy Director (Mines)

Geologicla Survey and Mines Bureau,

4, Senanayake Building,

Galle Road, Dehiwela.

4. Road Development Authority

Sethsiripaya,

Battaramulla.

I

"

BEFORE:

COUNSel:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERATNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J.

S. E. M. S. B. Jayasundera

Divisional Secretary,

Divisional Secretariat,

Welimada.

6. Keangnam Lanka (Private) limited

81S, E.W. Perera Mawatha,

Ethul Kotte,

Sri Jayawardhanapura.

RESPONDENTS

Sumedha Mahawanniarachchci with J. Senanayake For the Petitioner

H. Withanachchi for the 6th Respondent

Yuresha Fernando S.S.c. for the 1st -Sth Respondents

22.11.2013

06.05.2014

2

The Petitioner in this application has sought a Writ of Certiorari to

quash document marked P21 dated 12.3.2010 (decision made on an appeal

operate a quarry). A Writ of Mandamus is also sought directing 3rd & 4th

I

[. i I1 I i ,

I

3

Respondents to issue a permit. In the body of the petition it is pleaded that as

far back as 1995 an application was made to operate a government quarry

within the Divisional Secretary's Division of the 5th Respondent. Thereafter the

Petitioner was called upon to make an application to the relevant authorities

(vide P1) and accordingly letter P2 & P3 are also produced, supporting the case

of the Petitioner. However it is pleaded that by letter P4 of 8.1.1996 the area

officer of the 4th Respondent informed the Petitioner that the quarry cannot

be operated as there is a risk to the road, other structure close by and of land

slides. Thereafter about 2 years later by letter P5 of 23.1.1998 informed that

although the quarry cannot be operated as stated above, part of the rock need

to be removed as informed by the Road Development Authority (R4).

In the submissions made before this court and the material

contained in the petition, it is stated that by letter P5 of 23.1.1998 although

the position in letter P4, authorities requested the Petitioner to get the 4th

Respondent to demarcate the portion of the rock that has to be removed.

Thereafter, and from that point of time the Petitioner was trying to

get the 4th Respondent the Road Development Authority to demarcate the

particular rock as directed by the 3rd Respondent. It is the position of the

Petitioner that the officers of the 4th Respondent deliberately delayed the

4

required demarcation. Petitioner also pleads that all this was due to a

Provincial Council Member who was to be given the contract. Having waited

for a considerable length of time the Petitioner by P6 of 14.11.2006 requested

the Divisional Secretary of Welimada to at least consider a new application.

Even this attempt according to the Petitioner did not bring any results. It is

pleaded that the Petitioner met several persons in authority, without success.

In paragraphs 16 and 18 of the petition certain letters are pleaded (P9 & P10)

where a decision is taken to refuse permission to operate a quarry.

Then Petitioner appealed (P11) from the above decisions to the 2

nd

Respondent (as indicated in P10). However by P20 & P21 Petitioner's appeal

was rejected. The Petitioner pleads the following grounds to obtain a Writ of

Certiorari.

1. The Petitioner pleads that it is unreasonable to have permitted others to

operate the aforesaid quarry regarding the operation of which, the

Petitioner made an application as far back as 1995 and that the Petitioner is

personally aware that to grant approval to others, the geological survey

reports and other relevant material were obtained from the file opened at

the 3rd Respondent's Bureau in relation to the Petitioner's application.

2. In the circumstances, the Petitioner pleads that a cause of action has

accrued to the Petitioner to invoke the jurisdiction to obtain a Writ of

"

5

certiorari against the 2nd Respondent quashing his decision marked P21 as it

is arbitrary, unreasonable and ultra vires and to obtain a writ of Mandamus

against the 3

rd & 4th Respondents directing them to permit the Petitioner to

operate the aforesaid quarry.

The 3

rd Respondent has pleaded inter alia the following grounds.

(i) The Petitioner has failed to specify the person against whom a writ of

mandamus could be issued;

(ii) The Petitioner's claim for a quarry licence is not based on any

cognizable legal right of legitimate expectation;

(iii) The matter is only of academic interest as all licences for quarrying

activates have now been revoked as the site is within the auspices of

an ADS project;

(iv) The granting of the reliefs prayed for would result in disastrous

consequences as the site is now part of a project funded by the ADB

and is being operated by the 6th Respondent subsequent to an award

of the Contract after having followed proper tender procedures;

(v) The Petitioner has neglected and/or failed to explain any reasonable

cause for delay in seeking relief and is therefore guilty of lashes;

(vi) The Petitioner has misrepresented and/or suppressed material facts

to Court and lacks uberima fides necessary to seek prerogative relief;

(vii) The Petitioner has failed to adduce satisfactory evidence in support

of his application.

I

I

,"

6

The position of 1st

, 2

nd & 3

rd Respondents could be summarized

as follows.

It appears on a perusal of these proceedings that the factual

position has been highlighted. A site inspection had been done at the

relevant site. The observations of the Chief Inspector of the 4th Respondent

had reported that to conduct of quarrying activities would be harmful to

the river bunt of 'Orna Oya' situated close to the proposed site which could

cause earth slips in the surrounding hills. As such no licence had been

issued to conduct quarrying operations (SRI). Part of the rock situated in

the proposed mining site needed to be removed in order to widen the

Peradeniya - Badulla - Chankadali road. As such there was a necessity to

remove part of the rock, a decision had been taken by the Chief Engineer of

the 4th Respondent to permit the conduct of quarrying activities by persons,

subject to specification and as to the manner of conducting such activities

(SR2). It is pleaded that requests were made from time to time by several

interested persons but the Petitioners had not expressed an interest.

Agreements were entered with such persons. Petitioners purported

application SR3 was incomplete.

,"

7

This court also had the benefit of hearing the counsel for the

6th Respondent. He drew the attention of this court to the several grounds

urged by the Petitioner seeking prerogative writs. It was his position that

the several grounds urged are not correctly established, to enable this court

to exercise the writ jurisdiction considering the factual position and the

ground situation, and as such the Petitioner would not be entitled to get

relief from this court.

In all the facts and circumstances of this case it appears to this

court that the factual and the ground situation of the site where quarry had

to be done does not favour the Petitioner since the Respondents have

adduced material to indicate that due to road widening and quarrying

activities for that purpose of removing portions of rock, had been taken

over by the 6th Respondent. As such all prior permissions given to several

parties to conduct of quarrying activities had been revoked. It is the view of

this court that the factual position which surface from the pleadings and

submissions of Respondents would not entitled the Petitioner to invoke

the Writ jurisdiction of this court. There is nothing unreasonable or

arbitrary in conveying the decision in P21 based on the material contained

therein. There is no basis to interfere in the decision P21.

"

8

It is also noted that on Petitioner's own admission as pleaded,

on or about 1996 Petitioner was informed and was given a negative reply,

Thereafter again in 1998 part of the rock was to be removed, due to

obstruction, an attempt was made by the Petitioner to get some right for

removing that part of the rock without success. This court observes that

this is a long drawn out process and an unsuccessful attempt on the part of

the Petitioner. As such the Petitioner cannot as of a right to demand the

right to quarry or obtain a permit without satisfying the authorities the

basic requirements to obtain a permit or to enter into a contract for the

purpose of removing part of the rock. So many years lapsed from the year

1996. Where Petitioner received only negative answers from the

authorities concerned.

This is a project where the 6th Respondent was awarded a

tender in 2008 to rehabilitate and upgrade a main road. The funding made

available by the Asian Development Bank. Thereafter the 6th Respondent

had a bigger and an important role to play. The 6th Respondent obtained all

necessary approval and a valid licence for the purpose (6R2, 6R3, 6R4 &

6RS). It is a futile exercise to interfere and grant any relief to the Petitioner

in the context of this application. A court will always before issuing a writ is

i

J . . ,

... , 9

entitled to consider the consequences by which the issue of the writ will I I

entail. 34 NLR 33. On the other hand as regards Mandamus, in point of law

the Petitioner has no status to make the application for a Mandamus

because no duty is owed to him by the Respondents and the Petitioner I

should fail on that ground also Sansoni c.J Weerasinghe Vs. Samarasinghe

(1966) 68 NLR 361, 366. Finally I observe that a writ will not be issued to

quash a particular exercise of power if it is futile to do so because it is no

more operational or it had its effect.

As such the Petitioner has not adduced any material to enable

court to exercise the Writ jurisdiction. This is a futile exercise. Application is

dismissed without costs.

Appeal dismissed.

~J&~~~ ~J .~-JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL