==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 1342/2000 F

D.C. Embilipitiya No. 5158 I L

L. G. Bandusena,

Land No 1392, Weligama Wadiya,

Padalangala.

Plaintiff

Vs.

1. L. G. Podisingho,

2. L. G. Ostin,

Both ofLand No 1392,

W eligama Kade, Padalangala.

Defendant

And Now Between

L. G. Bandusena,

Land No 1392, Weligama Wadiya,

Padalangala.

Plaintiff Appellant

Vs

1. L. G. Podisingho,

2. L. G. Ostin,

Both of Land No 1392,

W eligama Kade, Padalangala.

Defendant Respondent

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

W. Dayaratne PC with D. Dayaratne for the Plaintiff Appellant

Shyamal A. Collure for the Defendant Respondent

12.12.2012

10.05.2013

The Plaintiff Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant)

instituted the said action against the Defendant Respondents (hereinafter referred

to as the Respondents) inter alia for a declaration that she is the permit-holder of

the land described in the schedule to the plaint. The Respondents filed answer

denying the averments in the plaint and prayed for a dismissal of the Appellant's

action and inter alia claimed a sum of Rs. 500,000/- as compensation for the

improvements done by him. The case proceeded to trial upon 16 issues. After trial

the learned Additional District Judge has dismissed the Appellant's action. Being

aggrieved by the said judgement dated 21.09.2000 the Appellant has preferred the

present appeal to this court.

At the trial the Appellant has produced a land permit marked P 1.

According to the said land permit the Appellant was the permit holder of the land

in suit. The Appellant, in order to prove the authenticity of the said land permit,

has led the evidence of Seelawathie Kumasaru, Land Officer, Mahaweli Athority.

Witness Seelawathie Kumasaru in her evidence has stated that the land permit

(P 1) has been issued to the Appellant by the Mahaweli Authority and the said land

3

permit was a valid land permit in respect of the land in suit and no land permit has

been issued to anybody other than the Appellant.

The Respondents have raised issues No 06 to 14 with regard to the

improvements on the land in suite. But the Respondents have not given evidence

and have not called any witness to give evidence in order to prove the alleged

improvements. Accordingly the learned Additional District Judge has refused the

Respondent's claim in reconvention. The Respondents have not appealed to this

Court against the said findings of the trial Judge.

It was common ground that the subject matter of the action was a state

land. Hence the Respondents' claim of prescriptive title should necessarily be

failed.

In the said circumstances I am of the view that the learned Additional

District Judge has failed to evaluate the said evidence of the Appellant in correct

perspective. Hence I set aside the said judgement dated 21.09.2000 and enter

judgment as prayed for in the plaint. I allow the appeal of the Appellant with costs.

Appeal allowed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal