==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA (PHC) 139/2006

PHC -A'pura25/03

Deepthi Kumara Uyanwatta, Deepthi

Motors, Anuradhapura.

Respondent-Petitioner-Appellant.

Vs.

Ashoka Alawattte, Divisional Secretary,

Divisional Secretary's Office, Pandulgama,

Anuradhapura.

Plaintiff-Responde nt-Respondent.

Before : A.W.A. Salam, J &

Sunil Rajapakshe, J.

Counsel : Dr. Sunil Coory for the appellant ad Suranga Wimalasena

SSC for the respondent.

Argued: 30.07.2013

Decided on: 07.08.2013 .............. ------------~-

CA PHC 139/2006 PHC A'PURA 25/03REV

A.W.A.Salam,J

The plaintiff-respondent-respondent (hereinafter referred to as

the "respondent") initiated proceedings in the Magistrate's

Court against the respondent-petitioner-appellant (appellant)

in terms of the State Lands (Recovery of Possession) Act No 7

of 1979, to recover the possession of the allotment of land

admittedly in the possession of the appellant. The learned

Magistrate by order dated 23rd June 2003 directed the

ejectment of the appellant from the land of which he is in

posseSSIOn. Dissatisfied with the order of the learned

Magistrate the appellant in invoked the revisionary jurisdiction

of the High Court of the Province and the learned High Court

Judge by Judgment dated 26 April 2006 refused to exercise

the revisionary powers of the High Court resulting in the order

of the learned Magistrate remaining unaltered. The present

appeal has been preferred by the appellant to have the

judgment of the learned High Court Judge and that of the

order of the learned Magistrate set aside and substituted with

an order dismissing the application filed by the respondent in

the Magistrate's Court.

At the argument the learned Counsel for the appellant placed

reliance heavily on two grounds in support of his appeal, to

have the order of the Magistrate and the judgment of the

learned High Court Judge set aside.

CA PHC 139/2006 PHC A'PURA 25/03REV

They are as follows ....

1. That the land being previously alienated under

the Land Development Ordinance, to one

Amaraseeli, no proceedings could have legitimately

filed under the State Lands (Recovery of Possession)

Act to eject the appellant, save and except as

provided under Section 168 of the Land

Development Ordinance.

2. In any event, no order for the ejectment of the

appellant should be made, since the officer who

identified himself as the Competent Authority within

the meaning of the State Lands (Recovery of

Possession) Act, In fact is not the Competent

Authority entitled to file action in the Magistrate's

Court.

I will deal with the first ground urged by the appellant at the

outset. The learned counsel repeatedly cited Section 168 A of

the Land Devopment Ordinance, as the Provision of the law the

respondent should have resorted to in this case. Section 168 A

deals with the encroachment of State land alienated under the

Land Development Ordinance. Under this Section, If any

person encroaches upon a land alienated under the Ordinance

on a permit, he shall be guilty of an offence and shall on

conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable to

CA PHC 139/2006 PHC A'PURA 25/03REV

a certain punishment. Sub Section 2 sets out the territorial

jurisdiction of the court and by whom proceedings can be

initiated. Sub Section 3 deals with the consequences of a

conviction under Sub Section 1. In other words when a person

is convicted under 168A (1) of the Land Development

Ordinance, he is liable to be ejected from the land under

Section 127 of the Ordinance.

The learned counsel for the appellant contended that the land

in question had been previously alienated under the Land

Development Ordinance to one Amaraseeli. It is with the

permission of Amaraseeli, the appellant has entered the land

in question and constructed a house valued at Rs.20 million.

The learned counsel contended that in the circumstances the

respondent is debarred from initiating proceedings under the

State Lands (Recovery of Possession) Act.

To buttress his argument he emphasized that the Land

Development Ordinance must be considered as a Special

Legislation that prevails over the State Lands (Recovery of

Possession) Act as the latter Act deals with all types of lands

belonging to the State while the former deals with a particular

type of land, namely the lands alienated under the Land

Development Ordinance. He urged that the maxim generalia

specilibus non derogant must be applied to the present case to

rule out the permissibility of the State to maintain proceedings

CA PHC 139/2006 PHC A'PURA 25/03REV

1 I ! ! !

under the State Lands (Recovery of Possession) Act, in respect

of lands that are alienated under the Land Development

Ordinance.

The learned counsel for the appellant cited certain decisions of

the Apex Court as being binding on this court in deciding the

appeal preferred by the appellant. The ratio of the judgments

cited by him is that when a Statute provides a machinery to

achieve a particular object, a party has no right to step outside

that mechanism and look for relief. Admittedly, the appellant

has filed an unsuccessful application for writ of mandamus on

the Divisional Secretary to compel him to issue a permit in

respect of the land in question.

On a reading of section 168 A of the State Land (Recovery of

Possession) Act, it is quite clear that under Sub Section 2 the

Government Agent of a particular administrative district in

which the land that is encroached upon is situated, is given a

wide discretion whether to institute proceedings against a

trespasser under that Section or not. The operative words

used in Sub Section 2 are "Proceedings under Sub Section (1)

may be instituted by the Government Agent ........ "

In the circumstances, it would be seen that the argument

placed on behalf of the appellant to the effect that the

Government Agent has no alternative but to file proceedings

under the Land Development Ordinance, if the land has been

CA PHC 139/2006 PHC A'PURA 25/03REV

II I

t

I

ti

f

once alienated is untenable and in my opinion it is open to the

Government to choose between the Land Development

Ordinance and State Lands (Recovery of Possession) Act.

Hence, the first argument of the learned counsel fails.

The second and final argument advanced on behalf of the

app ell an t was that the officer who had signed the documents

as the Competent Authority, namely the respondent to this

appeal is not legally empowered to initiate proceedings against

the appellant as the Competent Authority. He maintained the

position that the Competent Authority in this case should be

an officer from the Irrigation Department as the land in

question is said to belong to that Department.

Therefore, it is quite clear that the Government Agent or the

Divisional Secretary as he is now known has the discretion

either to proceed under the land development Ordinance or the

state land (recovery) act to regain possession of a state land

from a trespasser or encroacher. As such, the argument

advanced by the learned counsel that the proceedings under

the state land (recovery) act cannot be maintained against the

appellant does not appear to be quite sound.

The next argument of the learned counsel for the appellant

was that the officer who had signed as the Competent

Authority in this case is in fact not the Competent Authority

who is empowered to sign the relevant documents or to initiate

CA PHC 139/2006 PHC A'PURA 25/03REV

\

proceedings against the appellant. According to the appellant

the Competent Authority who is empowered to initiate

proceedings against the appellant, if at all, should be an officer

from the Irrigation Department. This position of the appellant

is quite contradictory to the stance he maintained in the writ

application for mandamus. Quite surprisingly, in the writ

application the appellant took up the position that the officer

who has legal authority over the land in question is the

respondent who is the Divisional Secretary.

In the light of the position taken up by the appellant

previously, I do not think it is open for him to now take a

different stand as to the officer who is entitled to the represent

that State. Hence, I find no merits in both grounds urged by

the appellant. This appeal therefore is dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Sunil Rajapakha, J

I agree

Judge of the Court of Appeal

NRj-

CA PHC 139/2006 PHC A'PURA 2S/03REV

i I I i I

\