==== BLOCKS ==== 

I 1

INTHE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an appeal in terms of Article 138 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. C.A. No. 151-152/1997 H.C. Colombo Case No. B779/92

Before

Counsel

Alwa Pillai Ponniah

1 st Accused-Appellant

Chandrawansa Rupasinghe Abeysiriwardane,

2nd Accused-Appellant

Vs.

The Hon. Attorney General,

Respondent.

Rohini Marasinghe, J and

Sarath De Abrew, J.

No appearances for the 1 st Accused-Appellant.

D.S Wijesinghe, P.C. with K. Molligoda for the 2nd Accused-Appellant.

Kapila Waidyaratne, D.S.G., for the Respondent.

r"

• 2

Argued on 19.02.2008 and 01.03.2010.

Written Submission Tendered on : 11.01.2008 for the 2nd Accused-Appellant. 15.10.2008 for the Respondent.

Decided on : 29.03.2012.

*********

Sarath De Abrew, J.

The 1 st Accused Appellant, who was a Superintendent of

customs attached to the Free Trade Zone Customs office at

Katunayake Export Promotion Zone, was indicted in the High Court

of Colombo on 02 counts for having solicited a gratification of Rs.

25,0001= from one Russel Avery of El Steel Company on 08.01.91

at Katunayake as an inducement to expedite the approval of a sale in

the local market of a consignment of steel imported duty free by the

El Steel Company, punishable under Section 19 and 19( C) of the

Bribery Act. (counts 1 and 2) The 1st accused appellant was also

indicted for having accepted the said gratification of Rs. 25,0001=

from L.K.W. Kumara Silva (the decoy) on 10.01.91 at Colombo,

f 3

punishable under section 19 and 19( c) of the Bribery Act. (counts 3

and 4). The 2nd accused appellant, an officer of the customs office at

Katunayake, was charged on counts 05 and 06 of the indictment with

having abetted the acceptance of the gratification by the 1 st accused

at Colombo, offences punishable under Sections 19 and 19( c) of the

Bribery Act. After trial the leaned High Court Judge of Colombo on

11.11.1997 convicted the 1 st accused appellant on counts 1 - 4 and the

2nd accused appellant on counts 5 - 6 of the indictment and sentenced

them to 07 years R.I. and a fine of Rs. 5000 on each of the counts

with the prison terms to run concurrently.

Being aggrieved of the above conviction and

sentences the 1 st and 2nd accused appellants have tendered this Appeal

to this court. The 1 st accused appellant did not appear to support his

appeal and was absent and unrepresented throughout the hearing. The

3rd surety of the 1st Accused Appellant has been dealt with, while

warrants of arrest have been issued against the 1 st Accused Appellant

and his other sureties. However, the Appeal of the 1st Accused

Appellant was considered under Section 349(3) of the Code of

Criminal Procedure Act. The 2nd accused appellant appeared in Court

4

and supported his appeal and his Counsel tendered oral and written

submissions on his behalf.

The trial had first commenced m 1993 before the Hon.

Learned High Court Judge of Colombo upto 1995 and on his

elevation to the court of Appeal, trial de novo had commenced before

his successor and culminated with the conviction and sentence on

11.11.1997.

The prosecution case rested mainly on the virtual

complainant, R.O. Avery, Shipping Manager of El Steel Company and

that of sub-inspector Silva of the Bribery Commission, who acted as a

decoy. Alexender Perera, then Chief executive of the relevant

company, R.P. Joseph who conducted the raid had also given evidence

for the prosecution followed by two former officers of the Customs

Department to produce the appointment letters of the two accused

persons. After the closure of the prosecution case the 1st Accused has

given evidence from the witness box and called another witness, one

Jayatill eke , a Director of Customs, who gave evidence for the 1st

5

Accused Appellant. The 2nd accused appellant has not gIVen evidence

or called evidence on his behalf.

The facts briefly are as follows. El Steel Limited was a

Company located with Katunayake Free Trade Zone. The virtual

complainant Avery was the Shipping Manager of this Company. The

1 st Accused was a Superintendent of Customs attached to the Free

Trade Zone Customs office. The 2nd Accused was an Assistant

Superintendent of customs attached to the same office. According to

the evidence on 08.01.91, witness Avery has met the 1st Accused at

the Katunayake Customs office to obtain approval to remove a

quantity of steel imported by the Company out of the GCEC area to

be sold in the local market. The 1 st Accused has then solicited a

gratification of Rs. 25,0001=, given his visiting card with his home

address to witness Avery and requested him to bring the money to

his house the following day, while approving the removal of the

steel. Avery had returned to his office and informed his Accountant

of this demand whereupon the Financial controller of the Company,

Alex Perera had complained to the Bribery Department.

I I l

.. 6

On 10.01.91 officers of the Bribery Department had come

to the office of witness Avery and recorded his statement . Thereafter

these officers R.P. Joseph and S.l. Silva has gone with witness

Avery to the customs office to ascertain whether the 1 st Accused was

there. Thereupon, according to witness Avery, the 2nd Accused on

seeing witness Avery had called out to him "come come EI Steel".

The 1 st Accused was not present and the 2nd Accused had told A very

that the 1 st Accused had told him about the money and requested

Avery to give the money to him. The 2nd Accused had inquired

from Avery as to who S.l. Silva (decoy) was, and was told that he

was the accounts clerk of the company. S.l. Silva had replied that he

should give the money only to the 1 st Accused as instructed. Witness

Avery has stated that he heard the 2nd Accused saying that S.l. Silva

may be a policeman. Thereafter they have informed l.P. Joseph

waiting on the ground floor and proceeded to the Bribery Department

to plan out the raid to be conducted that evening at the Bambalapitiya

house of the 1st Accused.

7

On the evenmg of 10.01.91, witness Avery, I. P. Joseph

and S.1. Silva (decoy) had conducted the raid and vi,ited the 1 str

Accused Appellant at his residece at Bambalapitiya. According to the

evidence of Avery, supported by that of S.1. Silva (decoy), the 1st

Accused Appellant had offered them a seat and inquired as to who

S.1. Silva was and was told he was the accounts clerk. Then the 1st

Accused Appellant had inquired whether the money was brought and

when answered in the affirmative, the 1 st accused Appellant had taken

them to an adjoining room where there was a table and requested the

money to be kept on the table. When this was done, the 1 st Accused

Appellant had covered the money with a mat that was on the table.

Whereupon, on proceeding towards the gate of the house, the decoy

had signaled to I.P. Joseph who had rushed in and arrested the 1st

Accused Appellant and recovered the money consisting of marked

notes from where it was originally kept as instructed by the 1 st

Accused-Appellant. On the following day, on the instructions of the

Bribery Department, Inspector Joseph had arrested the 2nd Accused

Appellant at Katunayake.

8

The 1 st Accused-Appellant was absent and unrepresented

though the hearing of the Appeal, having tendered a petition of appeal

dated 11.11.97. The learned Counsel for the 2nd Accused Appellant

and the learned D.S.G. for the Respondent made oral submissions and

have tendered written submissions. We have carefully perused the

respective petitions of appeal, the entirety of the trial proceedings and

the written submissions tendered to court.

In an appeal from the High court, Section 349(3) of the

Code of Criminal Procedure Act provides that where the appellant

does not appear to support the appeal the court shall consider the

appeal and male such order thereon as it may deem fit. Accordingly

we have considered the matters raised in the petition of appeal of the

1 st Accused-Appellant in the light of the evidence led at the trial. The

learned trial Judge has exhaustively analysed the evidence against the

01 st Accused Appellant with regard to counts 1-4 of the indictment

and given sound reasons for his conclusions. Therefore no sufficient

grounds have been brought to our notice for interfering with the

conviction and sentence against the 1st Accused Appellant. The 03rd

surety of the 01 st Accused Appellant has been dealt with and

\t9 -l .. f

according to the minute of 30.03.2004, he has informed court that

the 1 s1 Accused Appellant has left the country and is living abroad.

The matters raised in the petition of appeal of the 1 s1 Accused

Appellant, especially the alleged contradictions In the evidence of

Avery and the bribery officers, have been carefully considered and

reconciled .by the learned trial Judge in his lengthy judgement with

regard to the charges of soliciting (counts 1-2) and acceptance (counts

3-4). In view of the above, as the 1 s1 Accused-Appellant has failed to

urge material grounds which would vitiate the conviction and sentence

on counts 01 - 04 of the indictment, we make order under section

349(3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act affirming the

conviction and sentence of the 01 s1 Accused Appellant on those

charges.

During the course of the argument, and in the written

submissions the following grounds of Appeal have been raised on

behalf of the 02nd Accused Appellant.

10

01) The evidence pertaining to the counts of abatment (counts 5

and 6) is unsatisfactory and the same have not been

considered properly by the learned trial Judge in his

judgment.

2) Even if the available evidence is considered, it is insufficient

to establish a charge of aiding and abetment against the 2nd

Accused Appellant.

3) Even though charges of aiding and abetting In counts 05

and 06 of the indictment relates to the offence of acceptance

contained in counts 03 and 04 committed in Colombo during

the course of the same transaction, the evidence led in the

case does not support this position.

On a perusal of the evidence led in the case and

the judgment of the learned trial Judge, we are inclined to take the

view that the above grounds of appeal should succeed for the

following reasons.

~t

Ir

f

II

I

~!

rI

11

The judgment of the learned trial Judge is contained in

pages 1419 to 1461 of the original record. Consideration of the case

against the 2nd Accused Appellant on abetment charges has been

briefly confined to 04 paragraphs contained in pages 1448· to 1450 of

the original record. The learned trial Judge has merely stated that the

evidence of Avery and S.1. Silva was sufficient to substantiate

abetment charges against the 2nd Accused and left it that, while

commenting that the 2nd Accused has failed to adduce evidence. On

a perusal of the evidence and the iUdegment, the following

circumstances mjlitate against the conviction of the 2nd Accused

Appellant on charges of abetment of the 1 st Accused Appellant with

regard to the acceptance of the illegal gratification.

1) The learned trial Judge has misdirected himself in failing to

attach a proper weightage to the two material contradictions elicited

from the evidence of Avery and S.1. Silva when they met the 2nd

Accused Appellant at the customs office. The evidence of Avery that

the 2nd Accused called out "come come EI Steel" and later

commented about S.1. Silva "this fellow could be a police officer" is

contradicted by S.1. Silva who denies having heard any of these

\

It

t

}

f

I

Ilf!I

I

i

12

utterances. The learned trial Judge has sought to reconcile these

material contradictions by citing Queen V s Julis (65 NLR 585) and

Samaraweera V s The Attorney General (1990 (1) SLR 256) on the

basis that error of memory or faulty observation could distinguish

these utterances from being deliberate falsehoods. According to the

evidence, the 2nd Accused Appellant had spoken to Avery when S.1.

Silva has in close proximity. Further, S.1. Silva being a trained

police officer who would have made notes to refresh his memory, it

is quite inconceivable that he will fail to absorb what was told to

Avery. If a proper weightage was gIven to these material

contradictions, a reasonable doubt would have arisen in the evidence

of Avery which would accrue to the benefit of the 2nd Accused

Appellant.

2) The 1 st Accused Appellant had requested Avery to come

to his residence at Bambalapitiya. However on 10.01.91, without any

plausible reason, the bribery officers have taken Avery to the Custom

office at Katunayake much to the astonishment of Avery himself. In

the light of the backdrop that the 2nd Accused Appellant too was

involved in a customs inquiry against EI Steel Company, in the

;

!

13

absence of an acceptable reason for the bribery officers to accompany

Avery to the customs office in the absence of the 1 st Accused

Appellant, the learned trial Judge has misdirected himself in not

affording a proper weightage to this aspect and scrutinized the

evidence as to the involvement of the 2nd Accused more

circumspectoulsy.

3) The charges against the 2nd Accused Appellant entirely rests on

his conduct conducive to abetment of the 1 st Accused Appellant

accepting the illegal gratification on a subsequent occasion. The learned

trial Judge has totally failed to consider whether the ingredients with t..-

regard to abetment as laid down in Section 100 and 101 of the Penal

Code have been proved beyond reasonable doubt. In order that the 2nd

Accused Appellant abets the 1 st Accused Appellant to accept the

illegal gratification conceWred, the prosecution must prove beyond C

reasonable doubt one or more of the following.

a) The 2nd Accused instigated the 1 st Accused to accept

the bribe.

\

t

~

J

i

f

I

!!

i tIIi,I[II!

i tII

IiI

f

~

14

b) The 2nd Accused engaged in a conspIracy with the 1 st

Accused for the latter to accept the bribe.

c) The 2nd Accused intentionally aided the 1 st Accused to

accept the bribe.

While holding that there IS sufficient evidence to

substantiate the charges against the 2nd Accused, the learned trial

Judge has gravely misdirected himself in falling to identity the

ingredients that have to be proved in establishing a charge of

abetment and applying and analysing the evidence judicially to

conclude whether these ingredients are proved beyond reasonable

doubt. There is no evidence on record that the 2nd Accused

instigated, engaged in a conspiracy or intentionally aided the 1 st

Accused to accept the bribe. Even if the evidence of Avery and S.l.

Silva against the 2nd Accused is admitted as credible, it would at

most constitute that the 2nd Accused had knowledge of the soliciting

by the 1 st Accused and made an attempt obtain the money for

himself. There is no conclusive evidence on record that the money

requested by the 2nd Accused was an illegal gratification to permit EI

Steel Company to sell imported steel in the open market. The official

t

f

I

1

act concerned has by them already been performed by the 1 st

Accused. Therefore the conduct of thr 2nd Accused does not

conclusively establish that he committed the offence of abetment of

the 1 st Accused in accepting the bribe. Charges of abetment in counts

5 and 6 of the indictment relates to the offence of abetment being

committed in Colombo in the same transaction pertaining to the

charge of acceptance in counts 3 and 4. However the evidence is

clear as crystal that the alleged conduct of abetment by the 2nd

Accused took place not in Colombo but in Katunayake customs

office as related to the offence of soliciting in counts 01. and 02. The

learned trial Judge has failed to consider this aspect too in his

judgment.

In vIew of the above, that court is inclined to

uphold the above grounds of appeal in favour of t he 2nd Accused

Appellant.

\

;: \ , , \ !

~ t II

! i

t

16

For reasons stated In this judgment, we affirm the

conviction and sentence imposed by the learned High Court Judge of

Colombo on 11.11.1997 on the 1 st Accused Appellant with regard to

counts 01 - 04 of the indictment and make order under section 349

(3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act dismissing the Appeal of !

~

t

[

the 1 st Accused Appellant. We further direct the learned High Court

Judge of Colombo to take necessary steps against the 1 st Accused

Appellant to implement the sentence and to take necessary steps to

deal with the 01 st and 02nd sureties of the 01 st accused Appellant I

according to law.

F or the reasons stated above in this judgment, we set

aside the conviction and sentence imposed on the 02nd Accused

Appellant on 11.11.1997 with regard to counts 05 and 06 of the

indictment and acquit the 02nd Accused Appellant. We therefore allow

the Appeal of the 02nd Accused Appellant. The Registrar is directed

to forward a copy of this judgment with the original case record to

the High court of Colombo. The 02nd Accused Appellant is directed

to appear before the High Court of Colombo when noticed.

.... \1

Appeal dismissed with regard to the 01 st Accused

Appellant. Appeal allowed with regard to the 02

nd Accused Appellant. ~ 5 JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Rohini Marasinghe, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

AKN