==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA (Rev) 06/2012

PHC. N'Eliya Case No.13/ II/Rev

M.C. Walapone Case No. 39792

Konara Mudiyanselage Kosgolle Gedara

Somapala.

Galkotumulla, Theripaha.

Informant-Petitioner.

Vs.

01. Konara Mudiyanselage Kogollegedara Kiribandara, Galkotumulla, Theripaha.

02.0fficer-In-Charge, Police Station, Theripaha.

Respondents.

And

Konara Mudiyanselage Kosgolle Gedara

Somapala.

Galkotumulla, Theripaha.

Informant-Petitioner-Petitioner.

Vs.

1

1

1 I

Before

o 1.Konara Mudiyanselage Kogollegedara

Kiribandara, Galkotumulla, Theripaha.

02. Officer-In -Charge, Police Station, Theripaha.

Respondent-Respondents.

And Now Between

Konara Mudiyanselage Kosgolle Gedara

Somapala.

Galkotumulla, Theripaha.

Informan t -Petitioner-Petitioner-Petitioner.

Vs.

o 1.Konara Mudiyanselage Kogollegedara

Kiribandara, Galkotumulla, Theripaha.

02.0fficer-In-Charge, Police Station, Theripaha.

Responden t -Responden t -Responden ts

: A.W.A. Salam, J. &

Sunil Rajapakshe, J.

Counsel : Daya Guruge for the Informant-Petitioner-Petitioner and Mrs.Machado for the Respondent-Respondent-Respondent.

Argued on : 10.09.2013

2

ft

I

t

I 1 I Decided on: 11.11.2013

A.W.A. Salam, J.

The informant-petitioner-petitioner (hereinafter referred to as the

"petitioner") initiated proceedings in the Magistrate's Court by

affidavit dated 28.3.2011 under Section 66 ((1) (B) of the Primary

Court Procedure Act No 44 1979. In the said affidavit the

petitioner stated that he used the land described in the second

schedule to the affidavit from the year 1985 as a right away to

serve the land on which she resided for a long period of time. The

land on which the petitioner resided was described in the affidavit

under the first schedule. The main allegation the petitioner made

in his affidavit was against the 1 st respondent whom he alleged

had obstructed the said right of way to her house by constructing

a fence on or about 8 March 2011. The learned Magistrate by order

dated 19 April 2011 refused to issue notice on the petition and

held that the respondent is entitled to the benefit of the judgement

of the district court which dealt with the right of way in question.

As has been observed by the learned Magistrate the identical

dispute namely the question of the existence of the right of way in

question was the subject of a suit in the District Court, where one

of the alleged users filed an action seeking a declaration that he

is entitled to the roadway in question. In that case the learned

District Judge held inter alia that the person who claimed the right

of way is not entitled to use the same. After the said judgement the

judgement-creditor in that case namely the plaintiff who is the

respondent in this case erected a fence and the petitioner filed the

present application to obtain an interim order to prevent the

3

I

i I

\ 1 I

1 l 1 I

resp~ndent from obstructing her right of way and certain other

substantive reliefs. Admittedly the petitioner was not a party to

the proceedings in the district court. The learned Magistrate

having examined the affidavit and the documents annexed thereto

came to the finding that the respondent had erected the fence in

exercising his right under the judgement and decree in the district

court which held inter alia that the existence of the right of way in

question had not been established.

The learned High Court judge who was invited to exerCIse the

revisionary jurisdiction over the determination of the learned

Magistrate with regard to the non -existence of the road in question

also held that the determination of the Magistrate is quite

consistent with the facts of the case and the applicable Law.

Even though the party aggrieved by the judgement of the learned

High Court judge in the exercise of his revisionary jurisdiction

against the order made by the learned Magistrate has not appealed

against the said order but had chosen to file the present

application in revision. It is to be noted that the impugned

judgement of the learned High Court judge has been delivered on

13 September 2011. However, the present revision application has

been filed on 17 January 2012. The delay in filing the present

application In revision is more than four months. The petitioner

has failed to account for the delay. Further, as has been

mentioned in the impugned judgement of the learned High Court

judge, no exceptional circumstances have been established

4

III

f

warr;:mting the intervention of this court by way of revIsIOnary

powers. In the circumstances, I am not disposed to think that the

petitioner has made out a case for the exercise of revisionary

powers of this court over the impugned judgement. As such, the

revision application under consideration stands refused.

Judge of the Court of appeal

Sunil Rajapaksha,J

I agree

Judge of the Court of appeal

NRj-

5