==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

CA (PHC) Apn. Application No. 105/06

High Court of Colombo Case No: 1407/02

Pothunaduge Winston Alfred Kanthilal Silva Accused-Petitioner

-Vs.-

The Attorney General Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or corruption. Complainant-Respondent

BEFORE Rohini Marasinghe, J. and Sarath de Abrew, J.

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

D.S. Wijesinghe, PC., with Kaushalya Molligoda for the Accused-Petitioner.

Mallika Liyanage with A. Wickramasinghe for the Complainant-Respondent.

25.06.2009

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS TENDERED ON: 27.08.2009

DECIDED ON 15.05.2012

•

2

Sarath de Abrew, J.

In this application the Accused-Petitioner has sought to

revise the order (P-12) of the learned High Court Judge of Colombo dated

14.07.2006 overruling the preliminary objection raised by the Accused as to

the validity of the indictment forwarded against the Accused by Complainant,

the Director General of the Bribery Commission. This matter was argued

before a Bench of Justice S.1. Imam and myself and on the elevation of

Justice S.1. Imam to the Supreme Court before the delivery of the order, this

matter was re-argued and written submissions filed before the present Bench

of Justice Rohini Marasinghe and myself.

The facts briefly are as follows. The Complainant-

Respondent, the Bribery Commission, commenced investigations in 1990

into the assets of the Accused-Petitioner. This inquiry into the assets

included that of a house construction at Vajira Road, Bambalapitiya. The

inquiry had commenced in 1990 based on petitions sent against the

Accused-Petitioner. Form 05 (R-1) under the Bribery Act had been issued to

the Petitioner on 27. 12.1990 which had been duly perfected and tendered to

the Bribery Commission on 18.01.1991. The inquiry had thereafter

continued as evidenced by P2 - P3. The Petitioner had left the country in

September 1994 and returned in January 1997 whereupon he has faced an

inquiry by a Special Presidential Commission of Inquiry which proceedings

had terminated without a finding (P4). Thereafter a show cause letter (P5)

3 • has been issued to the Petitioner on 03.09.2001 by the Complainant

Commission to submit a sworn statement which had been tendered on

04.01.2002 (P6) by the Petitioner. Thereafter the Complainant Commission

had issued P7 on 10.06.2002 to the Petitioner calling for further clarifications

on his sworn statement and directed to the Petitioner to appear before the

Commission on 14.06.2002 (in 04 days time) with his identity card, bank

account books, a copy of the tax return and copies of the bill payments with

regard to the constructions of the house at Vajira Road, without specifying a

specific time period. The Petitioner by P8 had requested one month

extension of time to submit the information and documents requested, but

the request had been refused by the Bribery Commission by P9A dated

14.06.2002 on the basis that the investigation had been badly delayed due to

the Petitioner being abroad for a number of years.

Consequent to the refusal to grant extension of one

month's time, the Complainant Bribery Commission had forwarded the

.;~ indictment against the Petitioner (P9B) dated 18.08.2002, two months later,

to the High Court of Colombo, without obtaining the clarifications sought by

way ofP7.

On 22.05.2006, before the indictment was read over to the

Accused, the learned Counsel for the Accused had raised a preliminary

objection assailing the validity of the indictment. After hearing oral

•

4

submissions from both parties, the learned High Court Judge had made

order on 14.07.2006 (P12) rejecting this preliminary objection and fixing the

case for trial. Being aggrieved of the aforesaid impugned order, the Accused-

Petitioner has preferred this revision application to this Court on 31.07.2002.

The main contention of the Petitioner is that the purported

indictment (P9B) is invalid and bad in law due to the non-compliance by the

Complainant, Bribery Commission of the mandatory provisions in Section

23A (4) of the Bribery (Amendment) Act No. 10 of 1958 which stipulates as.

follows.

"No prosecution for an offence under this Section shall be

instituted against any person unless the Bribery

Commission has given such person an opportunity to show

cause why he should not be prosecuted for such offence

and he has failed to show cause or the cause shown by him

is unsatisfactory in the opinion of such commission."

It is clear d.4 crystal that on a reasonable analysis of the?

above mandatory provision, the Bribery Commission is required by law to

comply with the following antecedent requirements-in order to forward a valid

indictment under Section 23 A of the Bribery Act in what is known as

property or asset cases.

• a). A reasonable opportunity must be gIven to a person under

investigation to show cause as to why he should not be prosecuted.

5

b). Such person should fail to show cause after a reasonable opportunity

has been given.

c) Or, in cases where cause is shown consequent to being gIven a

reasonable opportunity, such cause shown must be unsatisfactory in

the opinion of the Commission.

The significance of this provIsIon as a safe-guard and a

sentinel to shut out haphazard indictments being forwarded, must be viewed

in light of the stringent provision contained in Section 23 A (1) of the Bribery

Act where the burden of proof shifts to an accused person to prove that the

property and assets enumerated in such indictment have been acquired by

legitimate means.

This is an exception to Article 13 (5) of the Constitution

that every person shall be presumed innocent until he is proved guilty and

comes within the ambit of its proviso in that the burden of proving particular

facts may, by law, be placed on an accused person. Based on the above

construction therefore, our Courts owe a duty to ensure strict compliance of

6

the mandatory provisions contained in Section 23A (4) of the Bribery Act as

amended.

With the above legal construction of the above Section in

mind, I now approach the problem.

In the instant case the Accused-Petitioner has shown

cause (PI - P2 and P6). By P7, the Commission has called for further

clarifications and given only 04 days time. Therefore the Commission was

still in the process of gathering information and assessing the material place

before them in order to decide whether or not to prosecute. Before the issue

of P7, the Commission could not have formed the opinion that the cause

shown by the Accused was unsatisfactory, in which event there was no

purpose served in the Commission calling for further clarifications. The 04

days time given for the Accused to furnish the documents called for by P7

could hardly be interpreted to afford a reasonable opportunity to show cause

further. The refusal of extension of time by one month is therefore arbitrary.

The reason given for refusal of time in P9A that the investigation was badly

delayed in view of the fact that the Accused-Petitioner was abroad for number

of years is also unacceptable for the reason that the Accused going abroad

during 1994 to 1997 has no application or relevance to the present situation

m giving one months further time to enable the Accused-Petitioner to

furnish the required documents and information called for as further

7

clarifications by the Commission itself. Where the Commission is undecided

and seeks further clarifications within 04 days, and where a further one

months time is sought to submit the documents, the extra delay of further 26

days do not empower the Commission to ignore the further clarifications

already sought and come to an arbitrary and unfair decision to forward the

indictment, in violation of the provisions of Section 23A (4). An indictment

thus forwarded would be bad in law, has no force or avail and no legal

consequences will flow thereupon.

In R.P. Wijesiri vs. The Attorney General (1980) 2 SLR 317)

it was held that a direct indictment forwarded by the Attorney General

without an investigation, sanction and non-summary proceedings as

required by law was invalid. Consequently the law was amended to empower

the Attorney General to forward a direct indictment. Striking a personal

note, I had the privilege of being a member of the State team, and

coincidentally, the learned Counsel for the Petitioner in this Case was in the

opposing team.

In Director General for the Prevention of Bribery and

Corruption vs. Fernando ((1999) 3 SLR 104) F.N.D. Jayasuriya, J held that

non-compliance of Section 23A (4) of the Bribery Act would invalidate the

indictment and the learned High Court Judge had inherent power to

discharge the Accused from further proceedings and entertain a subsequent

8

indictment after due compliance with Section 23A(4) of the Act.

Article 13(3) of the Constitution has promulgated that

"Any person charged with an offence shall be entitled to be heard in person

or by an attorney-at-law, at a fair trial by a competent Court. In this context

it is most relevant and opportune to determine whether the application of

Article 13 (3) would extend to include situations where there cannot be a fair

trial by a competent Court based on a flawed indictment where mandatory

provisions prescribed by law to initiate trial proceedings are blatantly

infringed.

Refocusing on the impugned order dated 14.07.2006 by

the learned High Court Judge of Colombo, the learned High Court Judge has

totally failed to analyse the mandatory provisions contained in Section 23 A

(4) of the Bribery Act as amended and totally failed to determine whether

there was due compliance. Suffice it to say that the impugned order

contains only a mere recital of the oral submissions of contending parties

supplemented by two paragraphs at the tail-end of the order which does not

have a semblance of reference to the requirements of Section 23 A (4).

Due to the foregoing reasons, I hold that the learned High

Court Judge of Colombo has gravely misdirected herself on the law by

rejecting the preliminary objection raised by the Accused-Petitioner. Acting

• 9

in revision, I therefore set aside the impugned order dated 14.07.2006 of the

learned High Court Judge of Colombo and further direct that the said

preliminary objection he upheld for non-compliance of Section 23 A (4) of the

Bribery Act as amended and consequently direct that the Accused-Petitioner

be discharged from further proceedings based on the invalid indictment

dated 15.08.2002.

The Registrar is directed to send a copy of this order to the

High Court of Colombo for compliance with the original case record.

Application is allowed with costs.

L~~ JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

I agree. #---~

Rohini Marasinghe, J.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL