==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an Appeal under Section

755 of the Civil Procedure Code.

Isuku lebbe Hamidu lebbe of

Watdeniye, Watthegethera

Delahanga, Gelioya.

Plaintiff

C.A.Case No. 679/97(F) Vs

D.C. (Kandy) A.V. Premarathna of 69 Peradeniya

Case No. 17603/L Road, Karamada, Gelioya.

Defendant

AND NOW

Isuku lebbe Hamidu lebbe of

Watdeniye, Watthegethera

Delahanga, Gelioya.

Plaintiff - Appellant

1

;

\ r

Vs.

A.V. Premarathna of 69 Peradeniya

Road, Karamada, Gelioya.

Defendant - Respondent

BEFORE P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J

COUNSEL M.1. Hadiwith B. Gamagefor

the Plaintiff Appellant.

RavindraAnawaratne for the

Defendant Respondent.

ARGUED ON 17.12.2014

DECIDED ON 13.07.2015

2

PoWoDoCo Jayathilake, J

The Plaintiff instituted this action in the District Court of Kandy

praying for a declaration of title to the land described in the schedule

of the plaint and to eject the Defendant Respondent and those who

hold under him from the said land. He has averred in this Plaint that

the Plaintiff and his two daughters, became the owners of the two

lands described in the schedules A and B of the Plaint and the

premises described in the schedule B had been given on rent to the

Defendant.

The course of action, according to the Plaint, is non payment of the

rent for a period of two years and dispute the title of the Plaintiff.

Even though, the defendant has not directly admitted that he is the

tenant of the premises, he has alleged that the plaint is bad in law as

the contract of tenancy has not terminated in terms of the provisions

of the Rent Act. As the defendant was absent on the date fixed for

3

trial, the case has been fixed for exparte trial. The Plaintiff giving

evidence in exparte trial has marked the deeds to prove his title to

the land described in schedule B of the Plaint and pleaded for the

Judgment of declaration of title. But in his evidence, he has not

disclosed any course of actions against the Defendant. However, the

learned Additional District Judge has delivered an exparte judgment

in favour of the Plaintiff declaring the title of the Plaintiff to the land

described in the schedule B of the Plaint. It has been stated in the

judgment that the Plaintiff is the land lord and the Defendant is the

Tenant, according to the evidence of the Plaintiff, though the Plaintiff

has not stated things of that kind in his evidence. However, the

learned Additional District Judge had been of the view that the

Defendant was not entitled to ask for an ejectment against the

Defendant as a Quit Notice had not been served on the Defendant.

This is an Appeal against the said Exparte Judgment preferred by the

Plaintiff Appellant. There is no right of Appeal against theExparte

Judgment under the Provisions of the Civil Procedure Code. But, it is

settled law now that a Revision under the Revisionary Jurisdiction of

4

the Court of Appeal. This court sees no reason to interfere with the

Exparte Judgment even in exercising the Revisionary Jurisdiction. It

appears that not only the Plaint, but also the evidence of the Plaintiff

has not presented a formal Action. Therefore, this court dismisses

the Appeal without cost.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

5