==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA 16/99 (F)

DC Colombo Case No. 16723/L

BEFORE : A.W.A. Salam, J.

1. Kelaniyage N eil

Ratnayake Perera,

No.47, Kelani Siri Mawatha,

Sinharamulla, Kelaniya.

And 02 others.

Plaintiff-Appellants.

Vs.

1. Dawundage Ariyasena

Fernando,

No.6, Gemunu

Galborella, Kelaniya.

And 04 others.

Mawatha,

Defendant-Respondents.

COUNSEL : Dr. S.F.A. Cooray with Hippola for the Plaintiff-Appellants and Athula Perera for the Defendant-Respondents.

ARGUED ON: 04.10.2012

DECIDED ON:02.05.2013

A W A Salam, J

The plaintiff-appellants sued the defendant-respondents inter

alia for a declaration of title to the portion of land described in

schedule Ill to the plaint. It is a portion of the larger land

described in schedule I. There was no contest that the land in

schedule 11 to the plaint is subject to the life interest of the 3rd

defendant-respondent. The incidental relief sought by the

plaintiff-appellants Is the ejectment of the contesting

defendant-respondents from the said land.

The plaint set out that the defendant-respondents are In

possession of the land described in schedule 11 to the plaint

which they described as an allotment of land known as lot G.

The defence raised by the defendant-respondents was that

they possessed the strip of land set out in schedule Ill of the

plaint and shown as lot 2 in plan No 1684/ A of M.W.D.S. de

Silva, Licensed Surveyor and Commissioner of court and

thereby acquired a valid prescriptive title. At the conclusion of

the trial, the learned district judge held that the contesting

defendant-respondents had acquired a valid prescriptive title

to the portion of land in dispute and proceeded to dismiss the

action. This appeal has been preferred against the said

judgment.

The only contest in the case before the learned trial judge was

the ownership to the land depicted as lot 2 in plan No 1684 I A.

The allotment of land marked as lot G to the West of lot 2 in

plan No 1684 I A admittedly belongs to the defendant-

respondent and does not form part of the corpus, namely lot 2

aforesaid. In the circumstances, it is to be observed that the

burden was on the defendant-respondents to establish that

they have prescribed to the said lot 2 by right of long and

prescriptive possession for a period of more than 10 years

immediately prior to the institution of the action as

contemplated in section 3 of the Prescription Ordinance.

The evidence adduced at the trial shows that there has been

no proper physical boundary between the land claimed to be

<\ ,_J

in the possession of the defendant-respondents namely Lot G

and the land belonging to the plaintiff-appellants.

As far as the defendant-respondents' case is concerned, their

unmistakable position was that by virtue of certain deeds they

have acquired title to lot G and that they never had

encroached upon the land of the plaintiffs'.

The land owned by the defendants is depicted in P3 as lot G.

The document marked as P3 is the final scheme of partition in

case No 6000 /P in the year 1954. This position was not only is

averred in the plaint but also admitted by the 2nd defendant in

his evidence. The extent of lot G in plan marked as P3 is 22.63

perches.

As far as the evidence is concerned, the plaintiff- appellants

have clearly established their title to lot 2 depicted in the

Commissioner's plan and the learned district judge had

apparently misdirected himself in not declaring the plaintiff-

appellants as the lawful owners of the subject matter of the

action.

As a matter of fact the recent survey done by the defendant-

respondents in 1986 appears to have been surreptitious done

and a period of 10 years has not elapsed since the date of that

survey. Quite noticeably, up to the year 1986 there had been

disputes from time to time between the parties over the

ownership of lot 2.

Further the 2nd defendant in his evidence has clearly admitted

the encroachment of the land belonging to the plaintiff-

appellants. This evidence of the 2nd defendant is found at page

159 of the brief.

Quite prominently the complaint made to the police P4 dated

16.11.1993 indicates that 2nd defendant had purchased Lot 4

shown in document DS and broke the fence of the plaintiff-

appellants. One of the salient errors committed by the learned

district judge appears to be that he had not adverted himself

to the fact that the defendants did not raise any issue with

regard to their right of prescription. Factually, the defendant-

respondents relied on the ownership of lot G which is in extent

of 22.63 perches as per document marked P3. As has been

submitted on behalf of the plaintiff-appellants when in fact the

defendant-respondents have asserted right to block of land in

extent of 22.63 perches, it is impracticable to have the

defendants declared entitled to an extent of land more than

22.63 perches.

It is appropriate at this stage to advert to section 3 of the

Prescription Ordinance which reads that "proof of undisturbed

an uninterrupted possession by a defendant in any action, or

by those under whom he claims, of immovable property, by a

title adverse to or independent of that of the claimants or

plaintiff in such action that is to say a possesswn

unaccompanied by payment of rent of produce or performance

of service or duty or by any other act by the possessor from

which an acknowledgement of the right existing in another

person would fairly and naturally be inferred for 10 years

previous to the bringing of the action.

The learned district judge in his judgment has failed to

consider whether the contesting defendant-respondents had

possession of the subject matter for a period of 10 years

immediately preceding the date of the action. The learned

district judge in his judgment has never considered as to

whether the defendant-respondents had possession of the

subject matter for a period of 10 years preceding the date of

action. The phrase used by the learned district judge to

answer the question relating to prescription is that the

defendant-respondent's had been in possession of the subject

matter for a long period of time. (e&Joo)1 c::DJ(3ales)}

this finding of the learned district judge is not sufficient

enough to confer prescriptive title on the contesting defendant-

respondents. In any event the defendant-respondents have

failed to lead cogent evidence relating to their prescriptive

possession to the subject matter. Hence, I am compelled to

allow the appeal and declare that the plaintiff-appellants as

the owners of the corpus described in schedule 11 of the plaint.

In the circumstances the judgment of the learned district

judge appealed against is set aside and the district court is

directed to enter judgment for the plaintiff-appellant as prayed

for in the plaint without damages.

There shall be no costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

NR/-