==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA No. 124/2008

HC Galle Case No. 2377

Walpitagamage Gunathilaka,

Munamalgahawatta, Meegoda,

Wanchawala.

Accused-Appellant

-Vs-

The Attorney General,

Respondent

BEFORE Sisira J. de Abrew, J (PICA) &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J.

COUNSEL Niranjan Jayasinghe for the Accused-appellant.

Yasantha Kodagoda DSG for the Respondent.

DECIDED ON 11.03.2014

SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J (P / CAl

Accused-appellant produced by the Prison Authorities is present in Court.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

1

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of a man

named Somapala and was sentenced to death. He was also convicted for

causing grevious hurt to Kusuma Gamage who is the wife of the

deceased person. He was, on the said count, sentenced to a term of 02

years rigorous imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs. 1500/= carrying a

default sentence of 06 months simple imprisonment. Being aggrieved by

the said conviction and sentence he appealed to this Court.

Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as follows;

On the day of the incident around 8.00 p.m. the accused-appellant and

one Karunadasa came to the house of the deceased. The deceased was,

at this time, sleeping on a mat in his house. The accused-appellant

invited the deceased person to come along with them to go to the road.

The deceased person refused this invitation. The wife of the accused-

appellant Kusuma Gamage also advised the deceased person not to go.

The accused-appellant at this stage started assaulting the deceased

person with his hands and legs. Wife of the deceased person at this

stage took a club which was used to lock the door (the door bar). But

she did not assault anybody. It appears that she has apparently taken

up this club in order to prevent the attack on her husband. The

accused-appellant at this stage grabbed the said club from the hands of

the wife of the deceased person and started assaulting the deceased

person who was sleeping. Wife of the deceased person, Kusuma Gamage

says that the accused-appellant gave about 25 blows. The accused-

appellant thereafter went and met Ruwan Thushara who was living in

the neighborhood of the deceased person and told him that he got

provoked and gave about 25 blows to the deceased person. There were

2

I

~lI!1

several injuries on the face of the deceased person. Learned counsel

appearing for the accused-appellant submits that he is making

submissions in order to get the culpability of the accused-appellant

reduced. The accused-appellant, in his dock statement, stated that he

did not assault the deceased person but it was Karunadasa who

assaulted the deceased person. There was no evidence to reject the

evidence of Ruwan Thusara to whom the accused-appellant admitted

that he assaulted the deceased person about 25 times. When we

consider the evidence led at the trial, we are unable to accept the

position taken up by the accused-appellant in his dock statement. In our

view it does not create a reasonable doubt in the prosecution case.

When we consider the evidence led at the trial, there are no grounds to

reduce the culpability of accused-appellant. We have considered whether

the accused-appellant could be convicted of the offence of culpable

homicide not amounting to murder on the basis of grave and sudden

provocation. But we note at that time of the attack the deceased person

was sleeping on a mat. The accused-appellant has attacked the

deceased person who was sleeping. When we consider all these facts, we

feel that there are no reasons to interfere with the decision of the learned

Trial Judge. For the above reasons, we affirm the conviction and the

sentence and dismiss the appeal.

On the second count Kusuma Gamage has stated in her evidence that

the accused-appellant assaulted her too. There is no reason to interfere

with the conviction on the 02nd count. For the above reasons, we affirm

both convictions and the sentences and dismiss the appeal.

3

1 i

Appeal dismissed.

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J.

I agree.

KRLj-

PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

l,

4 I,