==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

In the Court of Appeal of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

CA Appln No: 205/2012

In the matter of an application under and in terms of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and in particular under and In terms of Article 105(3) of the Constitution.

1. Geoffrey Alagratnam President's Counsel No 7 Daisy Villa Avenue Colombo 04

2. Dr Sunil F A Cooray Attorney at Law

No 51 Kalaeliya Road Ja-Ela

3. LalVVijeyanayake Attorney at Law

No 36/21 Sri Sangarajah Mawatha Kandy

4. Chandrapala Kumarage Attorney at Law

2

No 7/2 School Lane, Gangodawila Nugegoda

5. E C Feldano Attorney at Law

President, Mannar Bar Association St Jude's Street Pesalai

6. Mrs Nalani Kamalika Manatunge President -Galle Law Association No 19/ 1A Hirimbura Lane Galle

7. Mr AS M Perera President's Counsel No 428/5 Sunethradevi Road Pepiliyana, Nugegoda

Petitioners Vs

Rishard Bathiudeen MP No C37 Stanmore Crescent Colombo 7

Respondent

! if

I

f

t;rIf

3

To: HIS LORDSHIP THE HONOURABLE PRESIDENT

AND TO THEIR LORDSHIPS AND LADYSHIPS THE OTHER HONOURABLE JUDGES OF THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA:

MOTION

Whereas the Petitioners have filed this Application before Your Lordship's Court solely in order to uphold the dignity

and independence of the judiciary in the Republic of Sri Lanka;

AND Whereas this application by seven members of the Bar

of Sri Lanka has received wide publicity and the support from the Bar and persons upholding the Rule of Law;

AND Whereas the level of publicity and support has amply and suitably demonstrates and conveyed the high regard and esteem enjoyed by the judiciary of Sri Lanka;

AND Whereas the Respondent regrets that the telephone registered under his name has been used to make the telephone calls which forms the subject matter of these proceedings and apologizes for the unauthorized use of the telephone in the said way;

AND Whereas the Respondent states that he has the highest respect for the members of the judiciary and condemns any act which violates the dignity and esteem of the judiciary or that which violates the independence of the judiciary and apologizes to the Honourable members of the judiciary for the telephone registered under his name being

II

~

III

f

I

ff[ I!!r,

I 1 I

j

1 ,

I

1 1 I

I

4

used to make the telephone calls that forms the subject matter of these proceedings;

AND Whereas the Respondent regrets the pain of mind if

any caused to A Judeson Esq, the then Honourable Magistrate of Mannar;

AND Whereas the aforesaid circumstances, the Petitioners are satisfied that the objective of instituting these proceedings, namely to uphold the dignity and independence of the JUdiciary have been fulfilled;

AND Further Whereas the Respondent has subscribed to

this motion to confirm the assurance given by him and whereas the Attorney at Law for the Respondent to has

subscribed to this motion in confirming the assurance given by the Respondent, the Petitioners humbly move to terminate these proceedings.

On this 14th day of March 2014

Sgd .. /

Respondent

Sgd .. / Sgd .. /

Attorney at Law for the Respondent

Law for the Petitioners

Attorney a.t

I

t

f[

f• ~

\

1 I

5

C.A. 205/2012-Contempt of Court S.C. 219/12

Before P.W.D.C. JAYATHILALA, J.

Counsel

Decided on

Romesh de Silva P.C., Ikram Mohomed P.C,

Sanjeewa Jayawardena P.C., G.G.

Arulpragasam, Saliya Peiris, J.C.

Weliamuna, Sugath Caldera, Eraj de Silva,

Nilanga Udalagama, Niranjan Arulpragasam,

Milhan Mohamed instructed by Lilanthi de

Silva for the Petitioners

Faiz Musthapa P.C. with Gamini Marapana

P.C., M.M.Zuhair P.C., Razik Zarook P.C.,

Palith Kumarasinghe P.C., Kushan de Alwis

P.C., Faizer Musthapa P.C., Kuvera de Zoysa

P.C., Chandana Liyanapatabendi P.C., A.M.

Ilyas, Anura Meddegoda, N.M. Saheed,

Ghazzali Hussein, Kalinga Indatissa, Navin

Marapana, M.S.M. Fahim, Hunais Farook,

M.A.Q. Ghazali, M.S.M. Hejaaz Hizbullah

instructed by Verners for the Respondent,

14.03.2014.

f •{

I I

\

f

6

P.W.D.C. JayathUake, J.

Mr. Manjula Thilakaratne former Secretary of the Judicial Service

Commission and Mr. A. Judeson former Magistrate, Magistrate's

Court of Mannar are present in Court.

Motion dated 14/03/2014, signed by the Respondent, Attorney-at-

Law for the Respondent and Attorney-at-Law for the Petitioners

submits in open Court.

Learned President's Counsel appearing for both parties move to make

an order according to the terms of the motion and terminate these

proceedings.

Accordingly, on the request of the petitioners and the respondent,

Court makes order according to the terms of the motion terminating

the proceedings of this case.

Proceedings are terminated. III f

{ l I

7

Registrar is directed to initial the pages 1-3 of the motion.

Registrar is further directed to issue certified copies of this order to

the petitioners and the respondent on payment of usual charges.

Proceedings terminated.

c--~

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

/mds

I f l II t t f f r I! I! t f ¥.

f.

f f !f ,