==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA 211/2006 HC Negombo Case No: 55/2002

Hon. Attorney General Attorney General's Department Colombo 12.

Complainant Vs. Sabrudeen Kamrudeen 1249/C, Ananda Mawatha Hunupitiya Wattala. Accused And between Sabrudeen Kamrudeen 1249/C, Ananda Mawatha Hunupitiya Wattala.

Accused Appellant Vs. Hon. Attorney General Attorney General's Department Colombo 12.

Complainant Respondent

C.A. 211/2006

Before

Counsel

Argued on

Decided on

1

H.C. Negombo Case No:55/2002

Sisira de Abrew,J.&

Sunil Raj apakshe ,J.

Gayan Perera for the Accused-Appellant.

Varunika Hettige SSC. for the respondent.

31.01.2013,01.02.2013 &05.02.2013

05.02.2013

*********

Sisira de A brew ,J.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases. The

Accused-Appellant in this case was convicted for being 1n

possession of 249.4 grams of heroin and was sentenced to death.

III

; !

I!I

I

ti

\l

2

Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence

Accused-Appellant has appealed to this court. Facts of this case

may be summarized as follows:

The Accused-Appellant was arrested at a place called Ananda

Mawatha in the Wattala Police area when he was carrying a bag

which contained 8 parcels of heroin. The Accused-Appellant in his

dock statement denied the charge. His possession was that heroin

was not recovered from his possession. He further stated that he

was arrested whilst he was sleeping at home. He called his wife and

the son to corroborate this position.

The learned counsel appear1ng for the Accused-Appellant

contended that the evidence of the prosecution witnesses could not

be believed. But after we examined the evidence led on behalf of the

prosecution we were unable to agree with the submission of the

learned counsel for the Accused-Appellant. In our opinion the il

~ evidence of the prosecution witnesses could be believed. However

3

we thereafter examined the evidence of the defence in order to see

whether the evidence led by the defence is capable of creating a

reasonable doubt in the prosecution case. If the evidence led by the

defence is capable of creating a reasonable doubt in the prosecution

case, the Accused-Appellant should be acquitted. Although the

Accused takes up the position that heroin was not found in his

possession, his wife in an affidavit signed by her has admitted that

parcel of heroin was found under her dressing table which was at

home. This affidavit has been tendered to the High Court on behalf

of the Accused-Appellant for the purpose of considering bail by the

learned High Court Judge. Since she has admitted in an affidavit

that heroin was found under her dressing table, her evidence given

at the trial to the effect that heroin was not found from the

possession of the Accused-Appellant becomes false. When we

consider the above matters we are of the opinion that the defence

evidence is false and is not capable of creating a reasonable doubt

in the prosecution case. We therefore hold the view that the

decision taken by the learned High Court Judge to reject the

evidence is correct. When the defence evidence is rejected and the

evidence of the prosecution is accepted, the conviction of the

4

Accused-Appellant will have to be affirmed. For the reasons stated

above, we hold that there is no merit in this appeal and affirm the

conviction and the sentence. We dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Sunil Rajapakshe,J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Jmr/-