==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

I

IN THE CQURT OF~APPEAL Of' DEMOCltATIC SOCIALIST REPUBl.IC

OESRI LANKA

Case No:- CA/PHC/98/13

In thE' mattfer of Application hr the exerdse appellate jurisdiction under article 154 (P)(6) of the Constitution against order made in HC/NE/g53/23/13 in provincial High Court of Nuwaraeliya..

Ratna Asari Thiyagarajan, Ko':iyagala Estate Lower Division, No.9, Housing Scheme, Block No.21, Kotiyagala Estate, Bagawanthalawa.

(N 0.2:3/16, Bharathipura -

Bal~awanthalawa.)

Cla.imant - Competent Authority - Respondent

High Court Case No:-HC/NE/ g63/23/13: Magistrate Court Case No:-60430/13

Re:~)ndel1lt - Petitioner -

Al2~llant

J.M. Chandrika Priyadarshani,

Pl~intation Monitoring Officer, Plantation Management Monitoring Division, Ministry of Plantation Industri es Colombo.

1

-

i

I, I I, , !I "

III,

i i

1 I I I

Al2l!licant _. Respondent -:

Re;~)ncler

Before : \\'.M.lVl .. Malanie 1G11I1Ialrathne, J

: P.R.Walgama, J

Counsel : Dayarathna Hettiarachchi for the appellant.

: R.C. Karunal<aran for the Respondent.

Argued on : 11.03.2015

Decided on : 13.08.2015

CASE- NO- CA-(PHC}- 98/2013- JUDGMENT- 13.08.2015

P.R.Walgalrna, J

The instant appeal lies against the order of the Learned

Magistrate dated 29.07.2013 and the order of the Learned High

Court Judge of Nuwara eliya dated 08.08.2013, by which orders

the Respondent- Petitioner-Appellant's is to be ejected from the

disputed land.

The following are the facts germane to the instant appeJ.I· for

determination.

Applicant-Respondent- Respondent( herein after sometimes called

and referred to as the Respondent) being the Competent

Authority, of the Plantatior~ Management Monitoring Division,

Ministry of Plantation Industry, instituted aCDon In the

2

!

~

I

f III

fIt

Magistrate Co urt of Hatton, pursuant to the service of the quit

notice on the Respondent- Petitioner·· Appellant( here:in after

sometimes ca .led and referred to as the AppcHCiiit) seeking an

eviction of .:he Appellant from' the land described in the

schedule thereto.

Thereafter the Appellant filed his objections showing cause as

to why he should not be ejected from the disputed lar~d. To

fortify his po::;ition he tendered the exhibits marked V1 to VJ.3.

The Learned Magistrate J, after summary i.nquiry by his order

dated 20th Mcy 2013, has given effect for an ejectment c fthe

Appellant fro m the said land. Being aggrieved by the said

impugned order} the Appellant made an application by to the

High Court wal of Revision for the vacation of the said order

The Learned High Court Judge after inquiry in to the said

application up held the order of the Magistrate. Being aggrieved

by the said order of the Learned High Court Judge} the

Appellant Appealed to this Court to have the orders of the

Learned Magistrate and the Learned High Court Judge} to be

set aside or vacated.

It i$ :;:>ertinent to note that the Applicant·· Respondent :instituted

action in the Magistrate's Court Hatton in terms of Section 03

of the State Lands Recovery of Possession Act No. 0'7 of 1979}

to eject the Respondent- Appellant from land described in the

schedule.

3

I

,

~, f I l

The Responc.ent- Appellant in objecting to the afore said

applicotion had stated 1:he following;

That the Clli.mant has no legal right to make the said

applica tion fDr the ejectment of the Respondent as the

compe'cent Authority of the Land Development: Authority,

That the land in i.ssue is not been properly identifiedl

The Learned Magistrate by his afore said order has rejected

the said objections.

Further the Learned Magistrate has adverted to the documents

marked V3 and V7 and was of the view that the said

documents an~ not adequate to establish Appellant's title to the

land in issue, and held that the Appellant does not have the

permission to possess the land in i:5sue. Thlls it 1$ ('llear that

the Respondent - Appellant is In unauthorized occupation of the

land, purported to be Cl State land)

Further it W1S observed by the Learned Magistrate that the

schedule to the purported deed marked Vl and the land

described in the quit notice do not ta.lly, as such the identity

of the corpus is uncertain, besides the said deed is not a

valid deed a~ there are many infirmities in the sa:,d deed, in

that lit was apposite to state that the said deed was not

properly executed as the signatories had placed their signatures

to the above deed on 10.04.2012) and the deed was properly

executed only on 10.04.2013) of course without th,~ Common

4

I

III

I

\

sea~ of the .... and Reform Commission. ]n addition it is sal:ient

to note that the Respond,ent- Appellant has tendered to court

only a photo Copy of the alleged deed and as such the

Learned Magistrate has declined to accept the deed and was of

the view tha: the Respondent is in occupation of the corpus

without a valid document.

In the above setting the Learned lVfagistrate was of the view

that the Respondent did not have a legal right to be in

possession of the said land in terms of Section 9 of the above

Act arid as such the Learned Magistrate has acted in terms of

Section 10 0: the State Land Recovery of Possession Act, and

issued the eviction order accordingly.

Being aggrieved by the said order the Petitioner- AppeLtant

preferred a r~vision application to the High Court seeking to set

aside the same. The Learned High. Court Judge was of the view

that the Lea rned Magistrate has analyzed the facts and the

law in the correct perspective, and up held the order of the

Learned Magistrate, wh erein the order of eviction was to be

effected. Furtt.er it is to be noted that the High Cou rt is

barred in eXf!rcising Revisionary juri5:diction in respect of State

Land as per article lS·l (p)(6) of the 13th Amendm,~nt to the

Constitution, and the outcome of the judgment SOLAMUTTU RASU

.VS. THE SUPRINTENDANT, STAFORD ESTATE RAGALA- decided

on 26th September 2013, in the case of S.C.Appeal No.21/2013.

The contenti[o 1S issues in the instant matter are two fold;

5

! I!...

I J

I f t i ,

\ I ! i II I !

~, 1 }

-I t

vVhether the land In issue is a State Land

AND

Whether the Respondent- Appellant is In lawful occupation of

the said land by holding a valid permit or with a written

author;ty of the RIE!spondent.

It IS contended by the Claimant - Respondent that by the

gaz,ette notification marked as A2, the State has acquired the

item No. 11 which has reference to the Bagawanthal.nva Estate

containing in extent A 543-RI-P39. AND item No. 16, being the

Kotiyagala Estate containing i.n extent AIOSl- R2- Pl. Therefore it

is abundantly clear that the disputed land is undoubteCJy a

State Land and the Respondent - Appellant was duty bound to

prove his righ ts in terms of Section 9 of the said Act.

The Claimant - Respondent has adverted Court to the document

marked V?, which is a proof of the fact that the purported

deed was not in existE~nce even on 10 th Anril 20 1~. Annrtrp.nt1v

~ J. ~ ~

V7 is a lett,~r dated 15th May 2013 written by the Director,

District Land Reform Authority, Nuwara Eliya. In the said letter

it is stated :hat steps are in pI:ogress to issue a deed with

the authority of the LRC. The purported Deed VI is assailed

by the Respondent on many grounds. Further it is salient to

note that the land described in the schedule to the said deed

marked VI, is different from the land referred to in the

document marked V3. Therefore it is apparent that the

6

~ , , I 1 I

~ I ! i I ! It I

i \

r I I l

f ! r ! ; 1i I if 1

I I I I

I! )

Appellant did not have a valid document to prove his title, and

as such he was in unlawful occupation of the corpus.

It is further asserted by the Claimant - Respondent that the

Land Reform Commission has no authority to deal with the

lands belonging to the State. But the said Commission will have

the powers to deal with thE' lands legally vested in jt.

This Court will also consider the Petitioner's application in

revision in tl1e case bear:ing No. CA/PHC/APN/134/13 in the

instant action, and the parties have agreed to abide by the

judgment in rh.e matter in hanet. In the above styled action the

Petitioner has made the Chairman LRC as a party.

It is alleged by the Respondent that the Chairman of the LRC,

has acted in a illegal manner by issuing certain documents and

thereby fortifying the case for the Appellant.

It is '/iewed in the P(~tition of Appeal, the Petitioner- Appellant

in paragra.ph 3 (d] has stated that the Respondent by refusing

to accept the land mentioned in "the quit notlce and the land

described in the schedule to the afore said deed marked as

VI, is one and the same land. Thus it is contended by the

Respondents that the Appellant's stance has been the land in

issue and the Land described in the schedule to the afore

said deed, is one and the same land..

The ground norm of the Respondent is that as the land in

issue is a State Land the relevant law applicable, is embodied

7

I II;

in the State Lands (Recovery of Pos!;ession)Act No. '7 of 1979,

and the amendments thereto.

Therefore if the competent authority is of the view that a

particular land is a state land and decides to issue a quit

notice in terms of Section 3 of the said Act, and if the

occupant of such land fails to vacate the said land, the

competent authority can file action in the Magistrate Court to

obtain an eviction order in terms of Section 5 of the said, Act.

As per Section 91[2) of above Act the Magistrate is barred

from leading evidence of the competent authority.

Section 9(1) provides an opportunity to a person who is in

unauthorized occupation to established the fact that he a holder

of a valid pErmit or he is possessed a valid writter. authority,

and it is in force and not revoked.

Further it is contended by the Claimant - Respondent that if

the Appellant had a valid document he should have challenged

the said quit notice by way of a writ of Certiorari by filing a

writ application in the Court of Appeal.

It is intensely reI evan: to note the Appellant has not made

the LRC as a necessary party to thh; appeal. Nor has the LRC

intervened to defend the title of the Appellant. If the disputed

land was under LRC, certainly they would have established the

said fact. The purported deed marked as VI, which has no

8

· .

validity, supposed to have exeClited by the LRC, does not

confer any title to the Appellant.

For the fore going reasons I am of the view that the

application b:r way of an appeal is devoid of merits, and

should stand dismissed. Accordingly 1 dismiss the appeal subject

to a cost Rs.I0,I)OO/-

Appeal is dismissed.

JUDGE Of THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M.Malanie Gunarathne, J

I agree.

JUDGE OlF THE COURT OF APPEAL

9

I III

\ I I I

f

\ £ t , t , Ii I i