==== BLOCKS ==== 

•

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

G.D. Piyasena Seneviratne

Accused-Appellant

C.A.NO. 72/2006

H.C KegaUe No: 1184/96

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED AND

DECIDED ON

Vs.

Hon. The Attorney General

Respondent

**************

SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J (ACTING PICA) &

P.W.D.C.JAYATHILAKA, J.

Udaya Bandara for the Accused-Appellant.

Harippriya Jayasundera D.S.G for the

Respondent.

23rd January, 2014.

***********

SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J.(ACTING PICA)

The accused-appellant who is on bail is present in Court.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

1

f

I I I I I I

1 1 'I I

~

~ , ! I I

j 1 I I I I

2

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted for attempting to

commit the murder of a man named Liyannalage Jayaratne which is an

offence punishable under Section 300 Of the Penal Code and was

sentenced to a term of 7 years rigorous imprisonment, to pay a fine of

Rs.1500 / -carrying a default sentence of 03 months imprisonment and

to pay a sum of Rs. 50,000/ - to the victim as compensation carrying a

default sentence of 01 year imprisonment. Being aggrieved by the said

conviction and the sentence he has appealed to this Court. Facts of this

case may be briefly summarized as follows:-

Victim Jayaratne and his family who had been living III

Polaramba area went to Dehiattakandiya area for the purpose of

establishing themselves in the said village. But they, on and off, were

coming to Polaramba area. Injured party was known to the accused-

appellant. On the day of the incident around 5.15 in the morning, victim

Jayaratne and his wife came to the bus halt with the intention of getting

into a bus going to Dehiattakandiya area. But unfortunately for them

they missed the bus on that day. While they were waiting at the bus

halt, the accused-appellant came and asked the wife of the victim person

" Are you waiting to catch a bus?" Then he saw the victim Jayaratne

and addressed him in the following language " Are you the one who is

here?" Thereafter, he went away and within a few minutes came back

armed with a pistol. He fired two shots at Jayaratne. But the 1 st short

did not strike Jayaratne. The 2nd shot struck his stomach area. The wife

3

of Jayaratne at this stage jumped in front of her husband and told the

accused not to shoot her husband and if necessary shoot her. The

accused-appellant fired the 3rd shot which struck his stomach. Without

stopping at that point he fired the 4th shot which did not strike

Jayaratne. He thereafter went away. Jayaratne at this stage fell on the

ground. Wife of Jayaratne thereafter, heard some bottles being dashed

on the floor of the dispensary of the accused-appellant which was very

close to the bus halt. People gathered in the area took the injured

person to the hospital. The accused-appellant too gave evidence in this

case. According to him, around 6.00 in the morning of the same day,

Jayaratne and some people came to his dispensary and started a fight

with him. According to him, the glass doors of his dispensary were

damaged. This was the summary of the evidence of the accused-

appellant. According to the police officer, around 6.00 a.m. on the same

day, the accused-appellant came and lodged a complaint. On the

complaint made by the accused-appellant, police officer visited the

dispensary of the accused-appellant. According to the police officer's

observation 3 bottles in the dispensary of the accused-appellant had

toppled and one had crashed on the floor. According to the police officer

the floor of the dispensary of the accused-appellant was well polished.

He had not noticed any mud patches or any footsteps on the floor of the

accused-appellant's dispensary. Police officer says that it was a rainy

day. If Jayaratne and some people on a rainy day entered his dispensary

I ,

I I

1 i I I I !

j

4

as claimed by the accused-appellant there ought to have been mud

patches and footsteps on the floor of the dispensary which was a well-

polished one. Thus it appears from the evidence of the police officer, the

stand taken up by the accused-appellant in his evidence is untrue.

Further, it is pertinent to examine what the accused-appellant told the

doctor in his short history. The short history given by the accused-

appellant in the Medico Legal Report reads as follows:-

"History of shooting by firearm to face." According to the police

officer there were no any firing marks at the dispensary. Therefore, the

stand taken up by the accused-appellant when he was examined by the

doctor appears to be incorrect. Further, the learned defence Counsel

who appeared at the trial suggested to the prosecution witnesses that

the injured person with some others came to shoot him. But the

accused-appellant, in his evidence, did not take up such a stand. When

we consider all these matters, we hold the view that the evidence given

by the accused-appellant in this case cannot be accepted, cannot be

acted upon and is not capable of creating a reasonable doubt in the

prosecution case. We therefore hold that the learned trial Judge was

correct when he rejected the accused-appellant's evidence.

The wife of the injured person Kamalawathi could not proceed to

the police station soon after the incident as she had to take her husband

I 1 ) i

5

I to the hospital. It appears that around 10.45 a.m. on the same day, she

lodged a complaint at the police station with regard to the incident.

According to the police officer, by this time, he had received a complaint

from the accused-appellant which was at 6.10 a.m. in the morning. On

receiving the complaint of Kamalawathi, police officer went and inspected

the scene of shooting. He then found a peace of a bullet at the scene of

shooting which was near the bus halt. The fact that there was a

shooting incident at the bus halt was corroborated by the said

observation. Thus, the evidence of victim Jayaratne and his wife

Kamalawathie was corroborated by the police observation. There were

no contradictions or omissions between the evidence of Kamalawathie

and her police statement. There were no contradictions or omissions

between the evidence of Jayaratne and his police statement. Thus, I

hold the view that the evidence of Jayaratne, the injured person and

his wife Kamalawathie satisfies the test of consistency. Kamalawathi

made a prompt complaint to the police. Therefore, her evidence satisfies

the test of promptness. When we consider all these matters, we hold the

view that the learned trial Judge was correct in accepting the evidence

of the prosecution witnesses.

Learned Counsel for the accused-appellant contended

that the protection of fair trial has not been accorded to the accused-

I

r

f

ff

1 i ! f

I I I I

6

appellant as the Judge who convicted the accused-appellant has not

heard the case. It is true that the Judge who convicted the accused-

appellant is not the Judge who recorded the evidence. But according to

the law prevailing in this country, the succeeding Judge has the right to.

act on the evidence recorded by his predecessor. Therefore, I am unable

to agree with the contention of the learned Counsel that the accused-

appellant was not accorded a fair trial.

Learned Counsel appearing for the accused-appellant

further contended that the accused-appellant's evidence had not been

considered by the learned trial Judge. But when we consider the

judgment of the learned trial Judge we are unable to agree with the said

contention as we find that the evidence of the accused-appellant had

been considered by the learned trial Judge.

Learned Counsel appearing for the accused-appellant

further complained to this Court that the statement of the injured person

was a belated one. We agree that it was a belated one but, there were

reasons for him to make a belated statement. He was receiving

treatment in the hospital. He has also undergone a surgery. Therefore,

there was no opportunity for the injured person to make a prompt

statement. It appears from the evidence, the police officer had gone on

i

IlfI

rft•I

J1t

~I

I i 7 j

three occaSIOns to record his statement. When we consider all these

matters we hold that the contention of learned Counsel does not hold

water. For the above reasons we reject the contentions of learned

Counsel for the accused-appellant. We have considered the evidence led

at the trial. We are of the opinion that the trial Judge has rightly

convicted the accused-appellant. Learned Counsel complained that the

offence has been committed in the year of 1989 and it is not fair for this

Court to send the accused-appellant to jail after so many years. But we

are unable to agree with this view for the following reasons. The charge

against the accused-appellant is one of attempted murder. Then suitable

punishment must be imposed on him. If we decide to impose a

noncustodial sentence on the ground that so many years have passed

after the commission of the offence, most of the accused persons would

start seeking postponement and try to delay the justice process in order

to get noncustodial sentences which would result in an incurable debility

in the administration of justice system in this country. Considering all

these matters, we affirm the conviction and the sentence and dismiss the

appeal.

Counsel submits that the accused-appellant is on bail. The

accused-appellant who is on bail should submit to his bail. Registrar of

I

l

i

IttI

t

f

1t

\ I

J I J 1

I

8

this Court is directed to send the case record and a copy of this judgment

to the relevant High Court.

Appeal dismissed.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C.JAYATHILAKA. J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Kwk/=

f

fI

t,

f