==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No: 310/98 (f) D. C. Mt. Lavinia/Case No: 02/94/P

Peter Chandrishan Manilal Perera. 13/2, Sri Saranankara Mawatha, Pamankada. And presently of No.30/5, Col.T. G. Jayawardne Mawatha, Colombo 03.

PLAINTIFF AND Mahawatta Kankanamlage Sirisena, 233, Thalawathugoda Road, Mirihana.

DEFENDANT And Now Between Mahawatta Kankanamlage Sirisena, 233 Thalawathugoda Road, Mirihana.

DEFENDANT PETITIONER AND Peter Chandrishan Manilal Perera. 13/2 Sri Saranankara Mawatha, Pamankada. And presently at. No.30/5, Col. T. G. Jayawardne Mawatha, Colombo 03.

PLAINTIFF RESPONDENT

'-

C.A.No.310/98(F) D.C.Mount Lavinia No.2/94/P

Before K.T.Chitrasiri, J

Counsel S.A.D.S.Suraweera for the Defendant-Appellant

Argued & Decided on

K.T.Chitrasiri, J,

Kuvera de Soyza PC with Asela Rakawa for the Plaintiff-Respondent

23.01.201'3

Both Counsel heard in support of their respective cases.

Learned Counsel for the defendant-appellant submits that the deed

bearing No.l41 relied upon by the plaintiff-respondent had been executed

fraudulently. He further states that the reasons for the contention above are

mentioned in the statement of claim of the defendant. Learned President's

Counsel for the plaintiff-respondent submits that the issue in respect of the

said contention of the Counsel for the plaintiff- respondent had been raised

in the issue bearing No.5 at the commencement of the trial.

1

III

'

Both Counsel submit that the learned District Judge had refused to

allow an application made by the plaintiff-respondent to call the Notary

who executed the said deed 141 as a witness causing serious prejudice to

both the parties. Particularly, the said refusal to call the notary as a witness

had affected adversely to the defendant-appellant since the entire dispute in

this case rested on the execution of the deed 141.

Considering the facts stated above both Counsel at this stage, agree to

proceed with the trial in the District Court from the point the application

was made to prove the execution of the deeds marked P6 and P7 and to set

aside the proceedings recorded thereafter.

s In these circumstances, the proceeding recorded subsequent to the J---

" refusal to call the witnesses to prove the deed 141 is set aside .. Accordingly,

the impugned judgment dated 09.03.98 is also set aside.

The learned District Judge is directed to allow the plaintiff-

respondent to call witnesses if an application is made and to commence the

proceedings thereafter. The defendant-appellant is also has the right to

call witnesses on his behalf if necessary.

In the light of the above, proceedings in this Court is terminated.

2

I II f. ' ' ' tI I IIt

f ! t l Il! i :

l. t

Registrar of this Court is directed to send the original case record

without delay to the District Court of Mt.Lavinia in order to commence

further trial.

Proceedings terminated.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

KLP/-

3