==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA (PHC) 30/07 PHC-GALLE-478/05 MC-Baddegama-7911

D.G. Senaratne Karagoda, Yatalamatta, Galle.

Appellant

Vs.

OIC Police Station, Nagoda. Hon. Attorney General Attorney General's Department Colombo-12

Respondents

,

1 j

i 1 I i I I 1 I I

.~

J

,

CA (PHC) 30/07

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

K.T. Chitrasiri, J.

PHC-GALLE-478/05

MC-Baddegama-7911

K.T. Chitrasiri, J. &

P.R. Walgama, J.

S.Gunawardena for the 1st Respondent-Petitioner-Respondent

Clifford Fernando for the 2nd Respondent-Respondent-Appellant

26. Ol. 2015

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases. This

is an appeal filed by the 2nd Respondent-Respondent-Appellant

seeking to set aside the decision dated 04.04.2007 of the

learned High Court Judge of Galle. In that decision the

learned High Court Judge made order to hand over the

possession of the land subj ected to in this case to the 1st

Respondent-Petitioner-Respondent having set aside the order

dated 26.01.2005 of the learned Magistrate of Baddegama.

Officer in Charge of the Police Station Nagoda filed

information in the Magistrate's Court of Baddegama under

Section 66 of the Primary Courts Procedure Act No. 44 of 1979.

Learned Magistrate, having considered the material before him

Page 11

I

f!! I; !I

1 1 j I !

J made order in favour of the 2nd Respondent-Respondent-Appellant

having given the possession of the land in question to him.

Being aggrieved by the aforesaid decision, the 1st Respondent-

Petitioner-Respondent filed a revision application in the High

Court of Galle. Learned High Court Judge having reversed the

decision of the learned Magistrate made order to handover the

possession of the land to the 1st Respondent-Petitioner-

Respondent. In that decision the learned High Court Judge has

taken into consideration the report dated 17/08/2004 issued by

the Divisional Secretary and also the other material in

connection with the possession of the land in dispute.

Section 68(1) of the Primary Court Procedure Act provides the

manner in which an order should be made in an application

filed under Section 66 of the said Act. Accordingly, it is

the duty of the Primary Court judge to determine who was in

possession of the land in dispute at the time the information

was filed in Court.

Learned Magistrate seems to have not considered the contents

in the Documents marked 2V3(at page 184 in the appeal brief)

and the ~o 2 (at page 185 in the appeal brief) and also the

( reports filed by the Police. In those documents it is clearly

r i

\

stated that lot No. 11 in Plan 1 V1 which is the land in

question had been in the possession of the 1st Respondent-

Petitioner-Respondent. Affidavit filed by the 2nd Respondent-

Respondent-Appellant does not reveal the manner in which he

Page I 2

I I i 1

\ I

1 ! I

had been in possession of this land. He has merely stated that

a part of the land was planted with tea by him.

The relevant material show that the 1st Respondent-Petitioner-

Respondent had been in possession of the land in dispute at

the time the information was filed in Court.

Therefore, we do not see any reason to interfere with the

decision of the learned High Court Judge. For the aforesaid

reasons; this appeal is dismissed with costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.R. Walgama, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

LA/-

Page I 3