==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 1276 I 2000 F D.C. Gampaha No. 33183/L

Sudasin Achchige Gunapala, No. 63, Ketakalapitiya, Debahera.

Plaintiff

Vs.

Ilandari Pedige Nimal Karunaratne, No. 1163, Ketakalapitiya, Debahera.

Defendant

AND

Ilandari Pedige Nimal Karunaratne, No. 1/63, Ketakalapitiya, Debahera.

Defendant Petitioner

Sudasin Achchige Gunapala, No. 63, Ketakalapitiya, Debahera.

Plaintiff Respondent

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

2

And Now Between

Ilandari Pedige Nimal Karunaratne, No. 1/63, Ketakalapitiya, Debahera.

Defendant Petitioner-Appellant

Vs

S udasin Achchige Gunapala, No. 63, Ketakalapitiya, Debahera.

Plaintiff Respondent-Respondent

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

Sunil Jayakody for the Defendant Petitioner

Appellant.

Romesh Samarakkody for the Plaintiff

Respondent-Respondent

15.02.2013

15.05.2013

The present appeal has been preferred by the Defendant Petitioner-

Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant) from an order made by the

3

learned Additional District Judge of Gampaha dated 09.11.2000. The facts of the

case are briefly as follows;

The Plaintiff Respondent-Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the

Respondent) instituted an action against the Appellant in the District Court of

Gampaha seeking a declaration of title to the land described in the schedule to the

plaint. On 14.10.1997 when the case was taken up for trial the Appellant was

absent before Court and the Attorney At Law for the Appellant has informed Court

that he has no instruction to appear and defend the case. Accordingly on an

application made by the Respondent the learned District Judge has fixed the case

for an ex-parte trial.

Thereafter an ex-parte trial had been held on the same date and an ex

parte judgement also had been pronounced on the same date and a decree has been

entered accordingly. Thereafter a copy of the said ex-parte decree had been served

on the Appellant. Upon the receipt of the said the ex-parte decree the Appellant has

preferred an application under section 86(2) of the Civil Procedure Code (CPC)

seeking to have the said ex-parte judgement and the decree vacated. The learned

District Judge after inquiry has dismissed the Appellant's said application.

At the inquiry the Appellant has g1ven evidence and has led the

evidence of 03 witnesses. The Respondent too has given evidence and has led the

evidence of 0 1 witness.

The Appellant's position at the inquiry was that on the day before the

date of trial he went to Galewela as usual for the purpose of buying chillies and on

his way back the lorry broke down. Thereafter the lorry was repaired on the

4

following morning and came back to Nittambuwa at about 5.00 p.m. and at that

time he came to know from his Attorney At Law that the case was heard ex parte.

The Respondent denying the Appellant's said story has stated in

evidence that the Appellant was usually doing business in Nittambuwa fair on

every Tuesday and on the date of trial too, that being a Tuesday, he saw the

Appellant was going to Nittambuwa fair for business. The Appellant's witness

Asilin Nona in her evidence has stated that on the date in question she saw the

Appellant was selling goods at Nittambuwa fair. It should be noted that the

Respondent even in his evidence at the ex parte trial on 14.10.1997 has stated that

on the same day morning he saw the Appellant was going to Nittambuwa fair for

business.

No doubt that in an Application to vacate an ex parte decree which

had been entered against a party for default of appearance the burden is on the

affected party to satisfy Court that he had reasonable grounds for such default. If

the Affected party fails to give a valid reason an ex parte decree entered in default

of such party will not be vacated.

When I consider the evidence led at the inquiry I am of the view that

the Appellant has failed to adduce reasonable grounds for default of appearance of

the Appellant on the date of trial. Hence I see no reason to interfere with the order

of the learned District Judge dated 09.11.2000. Therefore I dismiss the appeal of

the Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal