==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Thiramanna Gedera Maheepala

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

C.A 13/2011

H.C. Monaragala 69/2008

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

RESPONDENT

Dharmasiri Karunaratne for the Accused-Appellant

Haripriya Jayasundera D.S.G for the Respondent

22.05.2014

08.07.2014

1

3

Accused-Appellant. However learned counsel for the Accused-Appellant raised

a question of mental disorder of the Accused-Appellant and also referred to a

report filed of record but not produced at the trial. Nor has such a defence

pleaded on behalf of the Accused at the trial. I would refer to the report not as

an item of evidence, but only since same is filed of record. It gives an

indication of a mental disorder which had not been established at the correct

stage in the trial court.

The learned Deputy Solicitor General very correctly submitted to

court that the plea of insanity cannot be considered since as per Section 77 of

the Penal Code is necessary to establish that as at the time of doing the act the

Accused was a person of unsound mind. It was also submitted that the

Accused also attempted to harm the main witness in this case. (evidence

support such position). Report at PG does not support any mental condition of

the Accused.

In Barnes Nimalaratne Vs. The Republic of Sri Lanka 78 NLR 51 ..

Held:

Interpreting Section 77 of the Penal Code which embodies insanity, it is not sufficient for

the defence to raise a doubt in the minds of the Jury. The defence has to establish that the

accused did not know the nature of the act or, in the alternative that it was contrary to law,

on a preponderance of probability or on a balance of the evidence. The burden on the

accused is no heavier than that resting on the plaintiff or the defendant in a civil case.

4

Held, further:- that it must be carefully borne in mind that, in order to succeed, the defence

must establish on a preponderance of evidence that at the time the accused committed the

criminal act he was in one or the other alternative states of mind set out in Section 77 of

the Penal Code.

The question of an abnormal personality due to "irresistible impulse" discussed.

The trial Judge very briefly refer to the act of murder by the Accused,

on the evidence placed before court, and convicted the Accused. Trial Judge

has also considered and explained his views on the contradiction marked at

the trial. We see no basis to interfere with the judgment of the High Court. As

such we affirm the conviction and sentence and proceed to dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL