==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A. (PHC) 158/2005 PHC Matara Case No: 160/2004

Mohomad Abdul Raul No. 17, Bathutha Road. Matara.

Petitioner - Appellant Vs. Urban Development Authority Battaramulla. W.C. Susantha Weherahena, Matara.

Respondents - Respondents

C.A. (PHC) 158/2005 PHC Matara Case No: 160/2004

Before

Counsel

Argued & Decided on

K.T. Chitrasiri,J.

K.T. Chitrasiri,J. & W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne,J.

Chandana Premathilake for the Petitioner-Appellant. Vicum de Abrew DSG. for the 1st Respondent.

Samantha Fernando for the 2nd Respondent.

20.10.2014

At this stage, learned Deputy Solicitor General informs Court

that the appellant has failed to follow the procedure laid down in

Rule 11 (3) of the Court of Appeal (Procedure for Appeals from High

q(J1.C~ iCourts) Rules 1988 "he has not filed a notice of appeal as required Y

by the said Court of Appeal Rules 1988. Accordingly, he moved

that this appeal be dismissed since the adherence to the

requirements referred to in the aforesaid Rules are considered as

imperative and mandatory.

1

Learned Counsel for the appellant having perused the original

record conceded that no notice of appeal had been filed by the

appellan t in this instance.

Journal entry dated 06.07.2005 found at page 31 In the

appeal brief shows that the learned High Court Judge having

refused to issue notice on the respondents at the very outset has

dismissed the writ application filed in the High Court of Matara

making it the final decision of the said writ application. Thereafter,

on 25.07.2005 the appellant has filed a petition of appeal which is

dated 22.07.2005 without a notice of appeal being filed. Therefore,

it is clear that the appellant has failed to file a notice of appeal as

required by the aforesaid Rule 11 (3) of the Court of Appeal

(Procedure for Appeals from High Courts) Rules 1988.

In Part II of the Court of Appeal (Procedure for Appeals from

High Courts) Rules 1988, stipulates the procedure applicable

when canvassing the final decisions made by the High Court, in

the exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 154 P (6) of the

Constitution.

2

Rule 11 (3) of the aforesaid Rules states thus:

t( (3) The notice of appeal shall be presented to the High Court for

this purpose by the party appellant or his Registered attorney

within a period of fourteen days from the date when the order

appealed against was pronounced, exclusive of the day of that

date itself and the day when the petition is presented and public

holidays, and the court to which the notice is so presented

shall receive it and deal with it as hereinafter provided. If such

conditions are not fulfilled, the court shall refuse to receive it".

Having looked at the aforesaid Rule which reqUIres to file a

notice of appeal, the learned Counsel for the appellant submitted

that Article 154 P (6) permits a person aggrieved by a final order, to

file an application, as of a right subject to the provisions of the

Constitution and in law. Accordingly, he contended that it is a

right given to an aggrieved party which is enshrined in the

Constitution. He further submitted that the word "law" found

therein is defined in the Constitution itself and that definition does

not cover the rules upon which the learned Deputy Solicitor

General relies upon to have this appeal dismissed. Accordingly,

Counsel for the appellant argued that the aforesaid Rule 11 (3)

3

cannot be made applicable to the issue at hand and then he moved

that the application of the learned Deputy Solicitor General be

rejected.

Article 154 P (6) gives the right to file an appeal. Such right

cannot be undermined at any cost. However, it does not in any

way refer to the procedure of filing an appeal. Therefore, when the

word "law" found in Article 154 P (6) is to be defined, necessarily it

has to be interpreted in conjunction with the rules that are

applicable in filing and proceeding with appeals. Those Rules are

meant to describe the procedure whilst the Article 154 P (6) of the

Constitution refers, as to a right of a party aggrieved by a decision

in a writ application filed in the High Court. In the circumstances,

this Court is not in a position to disregard the procedure laid down

in the Rules applicable when filing an appeal though the right

referred to in Article 154 P (6) is a right that cannot be

undermined. Hence, we are not inclined to accept the contention of

the learned Counsel for the appellant.

Mr.Prematillake also submitted that it is the High Court that

has the power to refuse the appeal when no notice of appeal had

4

been filed. Accordingly, he contended that failure to file the notice

of appeal cannot be considered by this Court at this stage.

Accordingly, he contended that this Court does not have

jurisdiction to consider the failure to file a notice of appeal and to

make an order accordingly.

Learned Deputy Solicitor General submitted that in the case of

Divisional Forest Officer v. Sirisena [1990J 1 S.L.R. at page

44, it had been held that such a defect should not be considered

as an omission to negate the procedure laid down in law. In that

decision, the Court of Appeal rejected a plaint filed in the District

Court which decision should have been made by that District

Court. Relying upon the aforesaid decision, we are not inclined to

accept the contention of the learned Counsel for the appellant and

decide that inaction of the learned High Court Judge is not a

reason to disregard matters referred to in the said Rule 11(3) and

make an order accordingly by this Court.

I t is necessary to note that maxIm non pro-tunc also is

applicable in this instance. At that point of time, learned High

Court Judge has not made an order that he should have made in

5

i I j I

1

accordance with the law. However, the above maxim permits this

Court to make an appropriate order at this stage when it comes to

an issue of law. Therefore, it is our view that this Court is

empowered to consider the issue as to the non-filing of notice of

appeal at this stage and to make an order according to law which

the learned High Court Judge has failed to do.

In the circumstances, we decide that the failure to file a notice

of appeal shall be a reason to dismiss this appeal in terms of the

Rule 11 (3) of the Court of Appeal (Procedure for Appeals from High

Courts) Rules 1988.

For the aforesaid reasons, this appeal is dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne,J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Jmrj-

6