==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

Court of Appeal Case No: CA1331/96 (F) D.C. Galle Case No.L/12371

Liyanagamage Kotunnawatte, Poddala.

Vs.

Jayanoris, Medakeembiya,

Plaintiff

1. Wickremanayake Arachchi Santi alias Suwaris 2. Wickremanayake Arachchi Sarath Both of Mahawatte, Medakeembiya, Poddala.

Defendants.

AND

Keembiye Liyana Gamage Gnanapala, Medakeembiya, Welapitaduwawatte.

Substituted-Plaintiff-Appellant.

Vs.

1. Wickremanayake Arachchi Santi alias Suwaris (deceased) 1A.Carolis Wickremanayake Arachchi, Meegahawatte, Pahala Keembiya, Poddala. 1B.Bennet Wickramenayake Arachchi, Magamulana, Medakeembiya. 1 C.Amarasiri Wickramenayake Arachchi, Welapitaduwawatte, Medakeembiya. 1 D. N andasiri Wickramenayake Arachchi, Ulupattalegederawatte, Medakeembiya.

Substituted Defendants-Respondents.

2. Wickramenayake Arachchi Sarath Mahawatte, Medakeembiya, Poddala.

Defendant-Respondent.

BEFORE : A.W.A. Salam, J. COUNSEL :Shymal A. Collure for the Plaintiff-Appellant and Sriya Manamperi for the Substituted Defendant-Respondent. ARGUED ON : 26.04.2012. WRITIEN SUBMISSIONS TENDERED ON:08.10.2012.

DECIDED ON : 01.03.2013.

A.W.A.Salam,]

plaintiff-respondent (hereinafter referred to as the "plaintiff' ) was

owner of the divided and defined allotments of land marked as

lots 6, and 7 depicted in plan No 148X dated lOth October and 1st and

22"<1 November 1969 filed of record in the district court of Galle in case

No P3071. The 1" defendant has been declared entitled to the adjoining

lot No 4 in the same plan. The rights of the 1st defendant from and out

of lot 4 have been transferred to the 2nd defendant.

The plaintiff filed action against both defendants complaining of their

encroaching upon his lots 6 and 7. He sought a declaration of title to the

said lots, ejectment of the defendants therefrom and damages. The

portions of the area encroached upon by the defendants from and out of

lots 6 and 7 are depicted as lots 6A and 7 A in plan No 194 dated 28

April 1993 and made by L.S Dahanayaka, L.S. The extent of the two

blocks of land 6A and 7 A alleged to have been encroached upon by the

defendants is described in the said plan as 0.144 perch and 0.401 perch

respectively. The total extent of the two blocks of land said to have been

encroached by the defendants aggregates to 0.545 perch.

The defendants having denied the allegation that they have unlawfully

encroached upon the said allotment of land, claimed title to the same by

right of prescriptive possession. At the commencement of the trial an

admission was recorded to the effect that the amalgamated lots 6 and 7

depicted in plan No 148X dated lOth October, 1st and 22nd of

December constituted the subject matter of the action.

There was no controversy that lots 6A and 7 A depicted in plan No 194

are part and parcel of lots 6 and 7 depicted in plan 148X. Hence, the

only dispute that came up for resolution was whether the 2nd defendant

has acquired a valid prescriptive title to the said lots as averred in his

answer.

At the trial Sepala Dahanayaka, L.S, the plaintiff, 1" defendant and the 2nd

defendant gave evidence. The plaintiff produced documents marked Pl

to P3 and closed his case. The learned district judge at the end dismissed

the action filed by the plaintiff and declared the 2"d defendant as having

acquired a prescriptive title to the said lots. This appeal has been

preferred by the plaintiff against the said judgment.

The learned counsel for the substituted-plaintiff-appellants has submitted

that the learned district judge has misdirected himself in the assessment

and evaluation of tl1e evidence especially with regard to the defendants

prescriptive title, as it is manifest that the 2nd defendant-respondent has

failed to establish his possession of the premises in suit.

On a perusal of the judgment, it is quite clear tl1at the learned district

judge has analyzed the evidence adduced by both parties and after

companson had chosen to act on the evidence of the

defendant-respondents. He categorically states in his judgment that the

balance of probability demands that the version of the

defendant-respondents should be given effect to for the reason that the

possession of the defendants is more credible and above all the learned

district judge observed that the plaintiff has not uttered a word in the

police complaint complaining of any encroachment on the part of the

defendants.

The findings of the learned trial judge is undoubtedly based on the

credibility of the witnesses. In such a situation the trial judge's perception

of the evidence led before him, is entitled to a great weight and utmost

consideration. Such findings can be reversed only if they appear that the

trial judge has failed to make the full use of his advantage of seeing and

listening to the witnesses. In this case the evaluation of the evidence by

the trial judge does not appear to be blameworthy. The trial judge has

had the privilege of seeing the witnesses and observing their demeanour

in the witness box. Regarding the crucial Issue as to whether the

defendants had possessed the property in question as averred, the

learned district judge has correctly arrived at a finding which incidentally

is adverse to the plaintiff. The learned district judge being in the position

of the master on all matters of facts including the proper assessment of

the credibility of the parties cannot be faulted for his conclusion.

Having given my anxious consideration to the approach made by the

learned district judge in coming to the impugned decision, I am not

inclined to subscribe to the view that there has been total lack of proper

evaluation of the evidence. Since the findings and the judgment of the

learned district judge are consistent with the evidence led by both parties,

I see no reason to interfere with the judgment of the learned district

judge. Hence, this appeal stands dismissed. There shall be no costs.

judge of the Court of Appeal

Nr/-