==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LAKA

CA. No. 115/2011

HC. Badulla Case o. 62/2002

Before

Counsel:

Argued &

Decided on:

Sisira • J • De Abrew, J.

Hitihamy Mudiyanselage Samarasinghe alias Samare,

Accused-Appellant.

-Vs-

The Attorney-General,

Respondent

Sisira J. de Abrew, J &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J

Saliya Pieris for the Accused-Appellant.

Ms. Haripriya Jayasundera DSG for the A.G.

21.06.2013

******

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases. The accused-appellant in

this case was convicted of the murder of a man named Siriwedi Mudiyanselage Ranasinghe

Bandara and was sentenced to death. The deceased person was the brother of the wife of

1

morning of 2ih. He received death threats only in the night of 2ih. But he did not make a

statement to the police during the day time of 27.10.1999 nor did he divulge the incident

to anybody. He states that he did not complain to the police during the day time of

27.10.99. He divulged the incident to the Police only after he was arrested. Police had

recovered a sword consequent to the statement made by the accused-appellant.

The accused-appellant gave evidence under oath and denied the entire incident. In

particular he denied giving or pointing out a sword to the police. According to the accused-

appellant's evidence, the deceased person had had dinner with him in the night of 26.10.99.

The accused-appellant's wife too gave evidence and denied the incident. She further stated

that her husband was at home on that day. The learned trial Judge after narrating the story

of the accused-appellant, stated that she could not accept the evidence of the accused-

appellant and his wife. The learned trial Judge did not give any reasons for non acceptance

of the defence evidence. The learned trial judge has not considered whether the evidence of

the accused-appellant and his wife creates a reasonable doubt in the prosecution case. We

would like to mention here that the learned State Counsel decided not to cross examine

the wife of the accused-appellant when she gave evidence. At this stage it is necessary to

consider an important judicial decision. In G.K.Ariyadasa Vs Queen 68 NLR page 66 His

Lordship Justice T.S. Fernando held thus:

1) If the jury believed the accused's evidence he is entitled to be acquitted.

2) Accused is also entitled to be acquitted even if his evidence, though not believed,

was such that it caused the jury to entertain a reasonable doubt in regard to his

guilt.

3

The learned trial judge has not considered the said principles governing the

defence evidence. lt is necessary to state the following guide lines when the trial

judges analyse the defence evidence.

1) If the defence evidence is believed the accused is entitled to succeed in his defence.

2) If the defence evidence creates a reasonable doubt in the truth of the prosecution

case, accused is entitled to succeed in his defence.

The learned trial Judge has failed to consider these principles. According to the

evidence of the accused-appellant, when the accused-appellant, on 2ih morning, went

to the boutique in the junction, he has heard the death of his brother-in-law. On hearing

this incident the accused-appellant threw the packet of biscuits and plantains he bought

and ran to the place of the incident.

On hearing the death of his brother-in-Law he ran to the place where the dead

body was lying fallen. This behaviour of the accused-appellant tallies with the behaviour

of a normal man. In our view there is no reason to reject the evidence of the accused-

appellant and his wife.

4

When we consider the evidence of the accused-appellant and his wife, we feel that

the said evidence has created a reasonable doubt in the truth of the prosecution case.

We therefore hold that the accused is entitled to be acquitted.

For the above reasons, we set aside the conviction and the death sentence and

acquit the accused-appellant.

Appeal allowed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Jmr/-

5