==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 935 /2000 F

D.C. Embilipitiya No. 4777 / L

Koongala Wickramage Sisiliyana, Land No. 986, Therunkatuwa, Thunkama.

Plaintiff

Vs.

1. Deni Rubasinghe, 2. Dayawathie Wickrema Arachchi, Therunkatuwa, Thunkama.

Defendants

AND NOW BETWEEN

Koongala Wickramage Sisiliyana, Land No. 986, Therunkatuwa, Thunkama.

Plaintiff Appellant

Vs

1. Deni Rubasinghe, 2. Dayawathie Wickrema Arachchi, Therunkatuwa, Thunkama.

Defendant Respondents

BEFORE

COUNSELS

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

Plaintiff Appellant - Absent and unrepresented

Defendant Respondents - Absent and

unrepresented

15.11.2013

The Plaintiff Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant)

instituted the said action against the Defendant Respondents (hereinafter referred

to as the Respondents) in the District Court of Embilipitiya seeking inter alia a

declaration of title to the land described in the 1 st schedule to the plaint.

The Respondents have filed an answer denying the averments

contained in the plaint and praying for a dismissal of the Appellant's action. In

addition the Respondents have made a claim in reconvention. The case proceeded

to trial on 14 issues. After trial the learned District judge has dismissed the

Appellant's action and the claim in reconvention. Being aggrieved by the said

judgment dated 12.07.2000 the Appellant has appealed to this Court.

The Appellant has set out several grounds of appeal in paragraph 04

of the petition of appeal. His main grievance was that the learned District Judge

has misdirected himself on the facts and law.

I

t IiII

it

.f

I I

:j I I f I !

3

I have carefully considered the impugned judgment of the learned

District Judge and the evidence adduced at the trial. When I consider the said

evidence I am of the view that the learned trial judge has come to a right

conclusion considering the evidence led before court.

In the said circumstances I see no reason to interfere with the said

judgement of the learned District Judge dated 12.07.2000. Therefore I dismiss the

appeal of the Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

tI!