==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL

OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A.NO.S16/98 (F)

K. L. Eward U dayasiri Perera

No.416/ 1, Henegama Road We liweriya

Substituted 2B Defendant-Appellant

Vs Bomiriyage Dharmasiri Perera No.416/ 168, Finco watta Weliweriya Substituted-Plaintiff-Respondent

Finco (Property Sales) Limited No.49/ 16 Iceland Building, Galle Face Colombo 3

1 st Defendant-Respondent

D.C.GAMPAHA CASE NO.30867/L

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN

SUBMISSIONS

FILED ON

DECIDED ON

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J.

Lasith Chaminda for the Substituted 2nd Defendant- Appellant

S.A.D.S.Suraweera for the Substituted-Plaintiff-Respondent

Anuruddha Dharmaratne with Darshika Perera for the 1 st Defendant-Respondent

28.06.2014

28.07.2014 by the Substituted-Plaintiff-Respondent

31.07.2014 by the 1st Defendant-Respondent

31.07.2014 by the Substituted-2nd Defendant-Appellant

11 TH SEPTEMBER 2014 iII

It

f

2

CHITRASIRI, J.

This is an appeal seeking inter alia to set aside the judgment dated 30th

July 1998 of the learned District Judge of Gampaha. By the aforesaid judgment,

learned District Judge decided the case in favour of the plaintiff as prayed for in

his plaint dated 10th February 1988. The reliefs prayed for in the aforesaid plaint

are to have a judgment declaring that the land referred to in the second schedule

to the plaint is being held in trust for the plaintiff by the two defendants and

then to have an order from the Court, directing the two defendants to transfer

the property in the name of the plaintiff.

Admittedly, the plaintiff-respondent (hereinafter referred to as the plaintiff)

I I ! !

having paid Rupees One Hundred (Rs.100j-) as a non-refundable deposit, has

agreed to purchase from the 1st defendant-respondent company (hereinafter

referred to as the 1st defendant) the two blocks of land referred to in the two

schedules to the plaint (Lots 168 and 169) for a sum of Rupees Eight Thousand.

(Rs.8,000 j -) The aforesaid agreement between the plaintiff and the 1 st defendant

is evident by the document dated 05.09.1972 marked as Pl. Having agreed so

on a date which goes back to more than 42 years, the plaintiff has paid a sum of

Rupees Seven Thousand Four Hundred and Five (Rs.7,405j-) by way of

installments to purchase the said two blocks. This position had been accepted

by the witness Chandralatha too, who gave evidence on behalf of the 1 st

defendant. (vide proceedings at page 114 in the appeal brief). The plaintiff in his

evidence has stated that he was to pay a balance sum of Rupees One Thousand

3

and Ten (Rs.1 ,0 10/ -) to complete the transaction. [Vide proceedings at page 84 in

the appeal brief]. Witness for the 1st defendant also has accepted this position

and accordingly she has stated that the plaintiff was to pay only a balance sum

of Rupees One Thousand Fourteen. (Rs.1 ,0 14/ -) [Vide proceedings at page 119

in the appeal brief]. In the circumstances, it is clear that the plaintiff has paid a

substantial part of the purchase price in order to buy the land referred to in the

two schedules to the plaint as agreed in the document marked PI.

However, the 1st defendant alleged to have accepted the balance money

due, not from the plaintiff but from the 2nd defendant-respondent (hereinafter

referred to as the 2nd defendant) though the agreement had been between the

plaintiff and the 1 st defendant in respect of the land described in the second

schedule to the plaint. However, the land in question had been finally

transferred by the 1 st defendant company in the name of the 2nd defendant.

Witness for the 1st defendant stated that the land in question was

transferred by the deed bearing No.74 [2V2] to the 2nd defendant since the

plaintiff has failed to pay the balance due to the 1st defendant in accordance with

the agreement referred to in the receipt marked PI.

The 2nd defendant in her evidence -in-chief has stated that she purchased

the land from the 1 st defendant due to the failure on the part of the plaintiff to

pay the balance due to the 1st defendant. In that evidence-in-chief she also has

stated that she paid an additional sum amounting to Rupees Ten Thousand

4

(Rs.IO,OOOj-) in order to have the land transferred in her name. [Vide

proceedings at page 132 in the appeal brief]. However, no documentary evidence

whatsoever is forthcoming to establish as to any payment been made by the 2nd

defendant to the I st defendant in order to have the disputed land transferred in

her name.

Learned District Judge having adverted to the totality of the evidence, has

stated that there was no evidence to establish that a sum of Rupees Ten

Thousand (Rs.IO,OOOj-) was given to the plaintiff by the 2nd defendant in order

to compensate the plaintiff for the money that he has paid previously. He also

has found that there was no money given by the 2nd defendant to the plaintiff in

the presence of the witness Chandralatha though such a position had been

advanced by the 2nd defendant-appellant.

Furthermore, the document marked "IVI" was produced in evidence to

show that a request had been made by the plaintiff from the I st defendant to

have the land transferred in the name of the 2nd defendant. However, the plaintiff

in his evidence has stated that the document marked "IVI" was a blank form at

the time he signed the document though he has admitted having placed his

signature on that document. This position had been explained by the plaintiff at

length whilst giving evidence. [Vide proceedings at pages 90, 91 & 92 in the

appeal brief]. Accordingly, the plaintiff has categorically denied that he made a

request to the I st defendant to transfer the land in the name of the 2nd

IlI I

J

I

~

~ I,

! }I

5

defendant. Said evidence of the plaintiff has not been contradicted and therefore

such a position of the plaintiff cannot be disregarded.

Learned District Judge also has carefully considered the evidence in

respect of the contents found in the document marked "IVI" by which the

plaintiff alleged to have consented to transfer the land to the 2nd defendant.

Having considered the contents in the document lVI, he has concluded that it

was a blank form when the plaintiff placed his signature on that document. [Vide

proceedings at page 158 in the appeal brief].

Furthermore, even the witness who gave evidence on behalf of the 1st

defendant namely, Chandralatha has clearly stated that she objected to the deed

marked 2V2 being executed and to have the land transferred to the 2nd

defendant. [Vide proceedings at page 11 0 in the appeal brief]. Accordingly , it is

clear that the I st defendant being the owner of the land in dispute also at one

stage was not in agreement to have the deed executed in the name of the 2nd

defendant.

Finally, the learned trial Judge has concluded that a substantial amount

of money which amounts to more than three-fourth of the value of the land then,

had been paid by the plaintiff to the 1st defendant. Accordingly, he has decided

to grant the reliefs as prayed for in the plaint.

!!

1I

tII t!,

1t

f f

6

In the circumstances, it is clear that the learned District Judge, has

considered the attendant circumstances carefully and has come to the

conclusion that a substantial part of the consideration had been paid by the

plaintiff to the 1st defendant in order to purchase the land described in the

second schedule to the plaint. Accordingly, he has decided the case as prayed for

in the plaint.

Then the question is whether the learned District Judge is correct or not,

m deciding so under those circumstances. It is the Section 84 of the Trust

ordinance that is applicable when a claim to have a constructive trust is made

by a party to an action. The said Section 84 stipulates thus:

«84. Where property is transferred to one person for a consideration paid or

provided by another person, and it appears that such other person did not

intend to payor provide such consideration for the benefit of the transferee,

the transferee must hold the property for the benefit of the person paying or

providing the consideration."

In the book on "Trusts" by Dr.L.J.M.Cooray, it is mentioned that

Section 84 of the Trust Ordinance has effected a change, because a person

who relies on it must prove that;

(1) He provided the consideration,

(2) It was not for the benefit of the transferee (even if he was a

stranger)

(At page 131)

! I!

I[f i f f iI f !

\t

i

t

JI1}

7

Also, in the case of Daniel v. Arnolis [30 N.L.R. at 247], it was held

that the plaintiff must prove that he paid the consideration and he paid so

not for the benefit of the defendant when claiming a constructive trust in

terms of Section 84 of the Trust Ordinance.

As discussed hereinbefore, plaintiff has established that he has paid

almost the full consideration to the 1st defendant in order to purchase the

property described in the 2nd schedule to the plaint. Witness Chandralatha who

gave evidence on behalf of the 1 st defendant too has admitted that the plaintiff

had to pay only a balance sum of Rs.1 014/ - to have the deed executed in order

to have the property transferred in favour of the plaintiff. That evidence has gone

in, unchallenged. At the same time, no evidence is forthcoming to show that any

consideration had been paid by the 2nd defendant in order to have the deed

executed in her name. In the circumstances, I do not see any error on the part

of the learned District Judge when he granted the reliefs as prayed for in the

plaint.

Also, it must be noted that this Court being an appellate Court is generally

reluctant to interfere with a decision that had been arrived at, by a trial judge

upon considering the facts of the case unless it is perverse and/or irrational.

[Frad Vs. Brown & Co. 28 NLR 282, Mahawithana Vs. Commissioner of

Inland Revenue 64 N L R 217, De Silva Vs. Seneviratne 1981 (2) SLR 8,

Alwis Vs. Piyasena Fernando 1993 (1) S L R 119] In this instance too, I am not

,

\

ft

r I I! \l

,

j

I I I I

I I I ! I I I I i ! i ! I

I I I I I I i l I I I I ! ! I

8

inclined to interfere with the findings he has arrived at having looked at the facts

of the case.

In the circumstances, relying upon the authorities referred to above, it is

my opinion that the learned District Judge is correct when he concluded the

case In favour of the plaintiff. For the aforesaid reasons, I am not inclined to

disturb the findings of the learned trial judge. Accordingly, this appeal is

dismissed with costs fixed at Rupees Fifty Thousand. (Rs.50,OOO /-)

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

\

f,if,

[ i I i 1t