==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No 385/ 1996 F

D.C. Badulla No. 11638/L

1. Rajasinghege Sarath Samaraweera alis Kammale Watte Gedara Andirisa,

(deceased)

lA. Mary Weerasinghe,

2. Rajasinghe Dewayalage Podisingho, (deceased)

2A. Rajapaksha Dewayalage Elisahamy, All ofKammalwattegedara, Uduwara, Hali Ela.

Plaintiff

Vs.

1. R.D. Rathna (Deceased),

1 a.R.D. Sophiya alias Podi Nona, Mudunpita Kumbura, Baddewela, Gawarawela, Demodara.

1 b.R.P. Podihamine, Kotuwekada, W ewaliyadda, Gawarawela, Demodara.

lc.R.D. Gnanawathie alias Rani,

Pallegedara Kade, Udunuwara, U duwara, Hali El a.

1 d.R.D. Mallika alias Seetha, Pallegedara Kade, Udunuwara, Uduwara, Hali Ela.

2. R. D. Danoris, 3. R. D. Andiris, Both of Pallegedara Watta, U duwara, Hali Ela.

Defendants

2

And Now Between

1. R.D. Rathna (Deceased),

1a.R.D. Sophiya alias Podi Nona, Mudunpita Kumbura, Baddewela, Gawarawela, Demodara.

1 b.R.P. Podihamine, Kotuwekada, Wewaliyadda, Gawarawela, Demodara.

1c.R.D. Gnanawathie alias Rani, Pallegedara Kade, Udunuwara, Uduwara, Hali Ela.

1 d.R.D. Mallika alias Seetha, Pallegedara Kade, Udunuwara, Uduwara, Hali Ela.

2. R. D. Danoris, 3. R. D. Andiris, Both of Pallegedara Watta, Uduwara, Hali Ela.

Defendant-Appellants

Vs

1. Rajasinghege Sarath Samaraweera alis Kammale Watte Gedara Andirisa,

(deceased)

1 A. Mary W eerasinghe,

2. Rajasinghe Dewayalage Podisingho, (deceased)

2A.Rajapaksha Dewayalage Elisahamy, All of Kammalwattegedara, Uduwara, Hali Ela.

Plaintiff-Respondents

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

3

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

Srinath Perera PC with Miss. Damayanthie Bandara and Hasini Chandrapala for the substituted Defendant Appellants.

Sanath Jayatilake for the 1st Plaintiff Respondents

16.07.2012

16.05.2013

The Plaintiff Respondents (hereinafter referred to as the Respondents)

instituted the said action against the Defendant Appellants (hereinafter referred to

as the Appellants) seeking inter alia a declaration of title to the land described in

the schedule 'B' to the plaint and to eject the Appellants from the said land and to

handover the possession thereof.

The Respondent filed answer denying the averment in the plaint and

claimed prescriptive title to the land described in the schedule to the answer.

After trial the learned District Judge has delivered a judgment in

favour of the Respondent and has dismissed the Respondent's claim for a

declaration of title on prescription. Being aggrieved by the said judgment dated

10.05.1996 the Appellants have preferred the instant appeal to this court.

4

The Respondent's case was that after the death of Menika who was

the original owner of the land described in schedule 'A' to the plaint, his rights was

devolved on his 05 children namely Dewaya, Ukkuwa, Rahuwa, Rankonda and

Nasondi. Said 05 children had amicably partitioned the said land and thereafter

said Rankonda became the owner of the land described in schedule 'B' to the

Plaint. Said Rankonda by deed of transfers bearing No 329 dated 21.04.1942 and

No 330 dated 21.04.1942 (P 1 and P 2) had sold the said land to the 1st and 2nd

Plaintiff Respondents and thereby they became eo-owners of the land in suit.

Thereafter the Respondents were in peaceful possession of the land in suit. In 1952

the Respondents had constructed an upstairs building in the said land. In the

meantime the 1st Defendant Appellant came in to the land with leave and licence of

the Respondents and occupied in an old house situated in the said land and on or

about 29.05.1983 the 1st Defendant Appellant started disturbing the possession of

the Respondents.

The Appellant's position was that they had been in possession of the

said land for more than 50 years and thereby they have acquired a prescriptive title

to the land in suit. At the trial the Appellants have produced a birth certificate

marked V 1, a school certificate marked V 2 and a letter issued by Grama

Niladhari marked V 3.

I have carefully considered the said documents of the Appellants.

None of the said documents establish the prescriptive title of the Appellants. The

contention of the Appellants was that the Judgment is against the weight of

evidence. The Appellants further contended that the Respondents have not proved

their title deeds.

5

It should be noted that P 1 and P 2 were very old deeds which had

been executed in 1942. At the trial the Appellants have not raised any objections to

the production of these two deeds. Hence P 1 and P 2 can be safely admitted as

unchallenged documentary evidence of the case. Therefore I reject the contention

of the Appellants that the Respondents have failed to prove their title to the land in

suit.

It appears from the impugned judgment that the learned District Judge

has carefully considered the said evidence in arriving at a right conclusion.

Therefore I see no reason to interfere with the judgment of the learned District

Judge dated 10.05.1996. Hence I dismiss the appeal ofthe Appellants with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal