==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 78/2009 H.C. Anuradhapura Case No. 22/2009

Rajapakshe Gedera Swarnawathie, Katupatwewa junction, Pahala Maragahawewa.

Accused-Appellant

Vs.

Attorney General, Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent.

C.A. No. 78/2009 H.C. Anuradhapura Case No. 22/2009

Before Ranjith Silva, 1. & H.NJ. Perera, J.

Counsel Saliya Peiris for the Accused-Appellant.

Argued & Decided on

Rohantha Abeysooriya, S.S.C., for the A.G.

22.03.2012.

********

2

Ranjith Silva, J.

Accused appellan~ome times referred to as the appellant) is

present in Court brought in custody. Heard Counsel for the appellant

and the State respectively. In this case the accused appellant was

indicted in the High Court of Anuradhapura for causing the death of

her own husband which is an offence as defined under Section 294

and punishable under Section 296 of the Penal Code. She was tried

without a jury and was convicted and sentenced to death. This appeal

is against that conviction and the sentence.

At the trial the prosecution led evidence to show the

strained relations between the accused and the deceased. There were

no eye witnesses in this case who had seen the incident. The body

of the deceased was discovered after a few days, lying in the toilet pit

in the premises of their residence. The only circumstantial evidence

against the appellant was the evidence led to show the motive, the

strained relations and the fact that this particular accused appellant had

confessed to one of her brothers in the following words, that is

3

"a~@ qaC)CiG) ®~C ~CiC~Ci~ @zD C)Ci@ ®)C) CiO)@SCD Q»)O

Ci~~.!D"

The Judge has considered this pIece of evidence as a

confessionary statement, confessing to have murdered the deceased. It

was not fair to give such an interpretation because she had only

indicated her knowledge with regard to where the body was and she

had only asked to surrender herself to the police. Did she think that

she was guilty of murder or of any other offence? Could the

appellant be an illiterate woman from a village not knowing the

difference between murder and culpable homicide. Has she confessed

that she killed or did she think that she was responsible for the

murder as a confederate had done it. Can she dump the body in the

toilet pit lifting the concrete slab on her own without a confederate. If

there was a confederate have they ruled out that the confederate killed

the deceased I refer to the judgment in Queen V s Kularatne 72

NLR 529 wherein it was held that when there were more than two

people and both could have done it, the prosecution is duty bound to

exclude the possibility of that other person committing the offence.

The police had recovered two weapons on a statement made by the

accused appellant, one is a katthy and the other one is a sickle. But

4

none of these weapons was sent to the Government Analyst to

assertion whether there were human blood stains on it. If they had

done that the Government Analyst may have been in a position to

state whether there was blood even if the weapon had been washed.

This had not been done. Specially in a case where the evidence was

so meager, the prosecution should have made some attempt at least.

On top of this there is evidence that there wasn't any blood on the

weapon, and those articles that were found in the house were things

used for domestic purposes. A Judge has to be very slow in arriving at

conclusions on this type of evidence against the appellant especially

so, in view of the fact that not only the appellant even her daughter

had testified as to the harassment that was meted out to the accused

and the relatives.

Another item of incriminating evidence against the accused-

appellant is that she made false utterances to the police and elsewhere

about the whereabouts of the deceased husband, whilst being fully

aware that the body was lying all that time in the toilet pit.

5

The question is whether the circumstantial evidence can

rule out the innocence of the accused. Is the circumstantial evidence

capable of any other interpretation other than the guilt of the accused.

We are of the opinion that the circumstantial evidence in this case is

not sufficient to warrant a conviction for murder.

I am doubtful whether the Lucas Theory could be applied,

although on the surface it appears that it could be applied, because an

accused placed in a situation of this sort a false statement by the

accused-appellant could be naturally to protect herself, or to protect

the confederate. Lucas Theory should not be applied indiscriminatly in

all cases. It should be applied only where the Judge thinks that it

should be applied. A Judge must be mindful of the evidence available

against the accused-appellant before seeking corroboration of the

prosecution story. If there IS no case for the prosecution then no

amount of corroboration can cure that. Therefore it is not safe to allow

the conviction for murder stand. At this stage considering all these

facts both counsel come to the rescue of this Court. Under the

circumstances I think it would have been much more discrete if the

trial Judge had adopted a difference course and framed a charge for

f

6

concealing a dead body under Section 198 of the Penal Code, which

would have been more appropriate and then found her guilty for that

offence as there is ample evidence to support a conviction in terms of

that section. Counsel for the appellant does not object to this

procedure and he consents and approves adopting such a course. This

Court is empowered to do whatever a High Court Judge could have

done at the stage of trial. Since it is too late to frame a charge now

and record a plea and since the Counsel for the appellant is prepared

to concede and agree to such a course we set aside the conviction

for murder and set aside the death sentence. We find her guilty

under sections 186 and 188 and convict her accordingly, but we

impose her the maximum term 07 years Rigorous Imprisonment. In

addition we impose Rs. 1000/= fine and in default 03 months Simple

Imprisonment. We back date the sentence to be operative from the

26.03.2009. Appeal partly allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL H.N.J. Perera, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

AKN