==== BLOCKS ==== 

I 1 1 I ,

1 I I I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATAIC SOCIALSIT

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for writs

of prohibition and mandamus made

under and in terms of Article 140 of the

Constitution of the Democratic Socialist

Republic of Sri Lanka.

1. Aslam Othman,

149 Kew Road,

Colombo 02.

2. Mohamed Hassein Mohamed

Naufer,

211 IT, Jumma Masjid Road,

Maligawatte,

Colombo 10.

3. Abdul Azeez Sheikh Nihar

84/20 B Maligawatte Lane,

Colombo 10.

And 8 others.

Petitioners

C.A. (Writ) Application No. 93/2014

Vs.

1. The Colombo Municipal Council

Town Hall,

Colombo 07.

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

2. His Worship A.J. M. Muzzammil,

The Lord Mayor of Colombo,

The Colombo Municipal Council

Colombo 07.

And 7thers

Respondents

SISIRA J DE ABREW, J. (P / CA)& P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE,J.

Heaaz Hizbullah with Nadun Wijesiriwardena for the Petitoners

S.J. Mohideen for the 1 st, 2nd and 3rd Respondents

S.A. Parathalingam P.C. with N.K. Parathalingam for the 5th Respondent

28.04.2014.

Sisira J de Abrew, J.(P/CA)

Heard both counsel in support of their cases.

Mr. Mohideen appeanng for 1st, 2nd and 3 rd Respondents makes

submissions. Mr. Parathalingam P.C. appearing for 5th Respondent

makes submissions.

2

Petitioners complain that the 5th respondent has encroached on to

the Muslim Burial Ground, Maligawatta which is the subject land in

this case. Counsel for the Petitioners further submits that the

petitioners have filed a case in the District Court of Colombo to get a

declaration that the 5th respondent has encroached on to the

Muslim Burial Ground, Maligawatta. According to the submissions

made by both parties, Colombo Municipal Council, the 1 st respondent

has issued a development permit in 2009 in favaour of the 5th

respondent to construct a building on the land of the 5th respondent.

Petitioners complain that the 5th respondent has encroached on to the

Muslim Burial Ground, Maligawatta and has constructed the

building. Petitioners seek a stay order preventing the 1 st -4th

respondents from extending the existing permit and/or granting a

development permit to the 5th respondent. In the case filed in the

District Court of Colombo the petitioners have asked an interim

injunction preventing the 5th respondent from constructing the

building.

Petitioners' case depends on the question whether the 5th respondent

has encroached on to the Muslim Burial Ground, Maligawatta which is

f

the subject matter in this case. This question must be decided by the

District Court. This Court has no jurisdiction to decide whether the

3

5th Respondent has encroached on to the said land or not. If the 5th

respondent has encroached on to the said land, Colombo Municipal

Council (the 1 st Respondent) will not be in a position to issue a permit

or to extend the existing permit. The said decision must be taken up

by the Municipal Council on the decision of the District Court.

In this circumstances, we see no reason to issue notice on the

respondents. In our opinion, the petitioners have not established a

case to issue notices on the respondents.

For the above reasons we refuse to issue notice on the respondents

and dismiss the petition of the petitioner.

PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

/mds

4