==== BLOCKS ==== 

•

.IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 740/2000(F)

D.C. Colombo Case No. 33169 IT

Before

Counsel

Argued on

Appa Kuttige Karolis Perera,

No. 189, Madinnagoda,

Rajagiriya.

Petitioner-Appellant

Vs.

Appa Kuttige Simion Perera,

No. 183, Madinnagoda,

Rajagiriya.

And 2 others Respondents-Respondents

A.W.A. Salam, J.

Donald Dissanayake for the Petitioner-Appellant and J.H. Wimalasena for the 1st Respondent -Responden t.

19.05.2011

Written submissions tendered on 23.06.2011

Decided on 27.10.2011

..... c: C1I E Ill) '0

:::s

.t:::.

O'l 1.0 ..-t rt'l rt'l

o .c

E o "6 u U ci

1

A.W. Abdus Salam, J. T

his appeal arises on the judgment of the learned District

Judge dissolving the decree nisi entered in the case where the

petitioner sought probate in respect of the estate of late Engalthina

Perera. The petitioner filed papers in the District Court seeking to

have the LAST WILL of Engalthina Perera proved and admitted to

probate. The learned District Judge having entered an order nisi

later after inquiry came to the conclusion that the petitioner has

failed to prove that the WILL in question is the act and deed of the

said Engalthina Perera. This appeal has been preferred against the

said decision.

The respondent has raised a preliminary objection regarding the

appeal preferred by the petitioner in that he has made reference to

Section 754(2) of the Civil Procedure Code which deals with

appeals against orders with the leave of the Court first had and

obtained. Even though the appellant has referred to Section 754(2)

of the CPC apparently the reference has been so made by

inadvertence. However, upon a perusal of the petition of appeal

and the procedure followed in preferring the appeal it is quite

obvious that the petitioner has undoubtedly intended and in fact

exercised the right of appeal under Section 754(1) of the CPC. In

the circumstances, I am not inclined to accept the argument that

the appeal should fail in limine for that reason.

The petitioner in this case claimed that the testatrix of the LAST

WILL was spinster and lived with him during her life time looking

after his motherless children. None of the respondents who

challenged the LAST WILL according to the petitioner were

interested in her welfare. His position was that the LAST WILL was

.p.-c:

QJ E tID -0

::J .....,

t:. 0'1 1.0 .-i en en

a ..c

E a "0 u U ci

2

properly executed before a Notary Public and in fact the act and

deed of the testatrix who was of disposing mind.

The respondents challenged the LAST WILL on several grounds.

One of the strongest grounds urged by the respondents is that the

signature appearing in the LAST WILL bearing No. 779 dated 07

February 1989 marked as P2 had not been signed by the testatrix

but a forgery. The reasons adduced by the respondents for this

allegation was that the testatrix was always known as Engalthina

Prera and that she has signed the LAST WILL as Engalthina

Perera. The learned District Judge has carefully considered this

issue and come to the conclusion that the petitioner has not

established the fact that the name Engalthina Prera has been

changed to Engalthina Perera during the period of 40 years. In the

midst of this serious allegation the learned District Judge has also

considered the lack of expert evidence as to the genuiness of the

signature appearing on the LAST WILL.

Besides, the learned district judge has also rightly commented

adversely against the genuineness of the seal of the Notary Public

placed on the purported LAST WILL. The deeds bearing No's 776

dated 12 January 1989, 777 dated 1 February 1989, 781 dated 1

March 1989 and 782 dated 12 March 1989 attested by the same

notary carry a rubber seal which is substantially smaller in

circumference and much shorter in diameter and radius than the

rubber seal of the Notary that appears on the purported LAST

WILL 779 dated 7 February 1989. This clearly shows that

immediately prior to the larger rubber seal on the purported LAST

WILL the Notary has placed a much smaller rubber seal on the

f-.......

0'\ I.D .-I m m

o .0

E o "0 u U ci

3

instruments executed before him. The reason as to why a different

type of rubber seal has been placed on the impugned LAST WILL

has not been explained satisfactorily by the petitioner.

Although the petitioner is not to be penalized for the lapse on the

part of the Notary, the glaring contradiction in the description of

the name of one of the witnesses to the LAST WILL cannot simply

be ignored in a matter of this nature. Admittedly, Instead of

Kankanamgedara Sudath Somarathne who claims to have

witnessed the LAST WILL, the Notary has mentioned in his

attestation that one of the subscribing witnesses to the LAST WILL

was Kankanamgedara Somarathne. The witness Sudath

Somarathne in giving evidence before the learned District Judge

has admitted that it is his father's name that has been inserted in

the attestation, despite the fact that he signed the LAST WILL.

The question with regard to the exact time at which the LAST WILL

was executed was also a subject of controversy between the two

attesting witnesses. According to one witness the execution of the

LAST WILL had taken place in the morning while the other witness

maintained that it was executed around 5 p.m.

It is trite law that those who propound a WILL must establish that

the LAST WILL in respect of which he seeks probate is the will of

the testator and in addition that the testator was of sound

disposing mind. For the reasons analyzed in detail by the learned

District Judge, the LAST WILL bearing No. 779 cannot be said to

+'" c: QJ E tID "'C

~ ....,

t::. 0'1 lO .-f m m o .D E o o u u a

LL 8 N -a <:t " « U 4

have been established initially by the petitioner that it forms the

LAST WILL of Engalthina Prera.

For the foregoing reasons the decision of the learned District Judge

to dissolve the order nisi and to dismiss the testamentary action

filed by the petitioner cannot be faulted based either on legal

concepts or factual matters arising in the case. Hence, this Court

has no option but to dismiss the appeal.

There shall be no costs.

~~ ... Judge of the Court of Appeal

NTj-..-t ..-t 0 N C3"

..-t -" N

.... c: Q) E tlO "t:I

:::s -.

.t::::. 0'1 1.0 ..-t tv') tv')

0 .0

E ..Q

0 u U ci

u:-0-0 N -0 <:t " « U 5