==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 205 / 98 F

D.C. Kalutara No. 4079 / L

Edirimuni Asoka Rohini No 671B, Shramadana Road, Kaluwamodara Aluthgama.

Plaintiff

Vs.

1. Gonagala Vithanage Malani Chandralatha, Malewangoda, Dharga Town, 2. Gonagala Vithanage Padma Rohini, Welipenna Road, Aluthgama. 3. Kamalawathie Seneviratne, Malewangoda, Dharda Town.

Defendants

AND NOW BETWEEN

Edirimuni Asoka Rohini No 671B, Shramadana Road, Kaluwamodara Aluthgama.

Plaintiff Appellant Vs

1. Gonagala Vithanage Malani Chandralatha, Malewangoda, Dharga Town, 2. Gonagala Vithanage Padma Rohini, Welipenna Road, Aluthgama. 3. Kamalawathie Seneviratne, Malewangoda, Dharda Town.

Defendant Respondents

I

Ii

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

S. N. Trimanna for the Plaintiff Appellant.

W. Dayaratne PC with R. Jayawardene and

Uditha Bandara for the Defendant Respondents.

02.09.2013

06.11.2013

The Plaintiff Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant) has

instituted the said action against the Defendant Respondents (hereinafter referred

to as the Respondents) in the District Court of Kalutara seeking inter alia that the

deed bearing No 60 dated 28.07.1986 be declared as a mortgage and the

Respondents be ordered to re-transfer the land described in the said deed. The

Respondents have filed an answer denying the averments contained in the plaint

and praying for a dismissal of the Appellant's action. After trial the learned District

Judge has dismissed the Appellant's action. This appeal is from the said judgment

dated 26.02.1998.

The Appellant's position was that she had mortgaged the property

described in the schedule to the deed bearing No. 60 in order to obtain a loan ofRs.

50,0001- from the 3rd Respondent and when she prepared to discharge the said

mortgage bond she realised that the said deed has been executed as an outright

transfer in the name of 1 st and 2nd Respondents. In addition the Appellant has

1

1 I 1 , ! , ; j I

3

challenged the said deed on the ground of laesio enormis. The Respondents'

position was that the said deed bearing No 60 was an outright transfer.

At the trial the Appellant has produced her title deed bearing No 4613

dated 03.08.1984 marked P 2. According to P 2 the consideration passed on the

deed was Rs. 50,0001-. The deed in question bearing No 60 dated 28.07.1986 has

been produced marked P 3. According to P 3 the consideration was Rs 51,0001-. It

seems that the deed in question (P 3) has been executed just two years after the

execution of P 2. In the said premise the Appellant must prove that Rs. 51,0001-,

the price at which the land was sold, was less than half the true value of the

property. In this regard the Appellant has led the evidence of Wijesiri

Gunawardana, licensed surveyor. He has valued the property in question at Rs.

100,0001- in 1986. But in his evidence he has admitted that the property in question

would be worth about Rs.90,0001-. Accordingly the Appellant has failed to prove

that the true value of the property in suit was more than double the consideration

shown on the face of the deed P 3.

In the case of Gooneratne vs. Don Philip 5 NLR 268 In order to

succeed in an action for rescission of sale on the ground of enormis Iaesio:

plaintiff must prove that the property was at the date of the sale worth double the

price the defendant paid for it.

The terms of the deed P 3 in this case are clear and unambiguous. It is

an outright transfer of the property to the Respondent. The transfer is not subject to

any undertaking by the Respondent to re-convey the property. On the other hand

the Appellant, in her evidence has testified that she knew that the property was

worth more than Rs. 120,000/- at the time of the execution of deed P 3 (V 2).

i

(

4

In the case of Jayawardene vs. Amarasekera 15 NLR 280 Lascelles

C.l observed that "A person who knows the value of his property is not entitled to

rescission of the sale merely by reason of the fact that the price at which he has

sold the property is less than half its true value."

Apart from that in the present case the Appellant has not pleaded a

trust. She has pleaded that the deed bearing No 60 dated 28.07.1986 (P 3) be

declared as a mortgage. No doubt that there must be a notarially executed

document to create a mortgage. A mortgage cannot be impressed on a deed of sale.

Unlike in a trust, in a mortgage, there is no question of a beneficial interest

retained. In terms of Section 92 of the Evidence Ordinance no evidence of any oral

agreement or statement shall be admitted as between the parties to any such

instrument, or their representatives in interest, for the purpose of contradicting,

varying, adding to, or subtracting from its terms.

In the case of Perera vs. Fernando 15 NLR 486 it was held that

"Where a person transferred a land to another by a notarial deed, purporting on the

face of it to sell the land, it is not open to the transferor to prove by oral evidence

that the transaction was in reality a mortgage, and that the transferee agreed to re-

convey the property on payment of the money advanced. The admission of oral

evidence to vary the deed of sale is in contravention of section 92 of the Evidence

Ordinance.

In the case of B.M.G. Setuwa vs. B.T. Ukku 56 NLR 337 it was held

that "It is never open to a party who executes a conveyance which is

unambiguously a deed of sale to lead parol evidence to show that in reality it is a

deed of mortgage and not of sale."

I, t

\

i

\I

5

In this case Gratiaen J. observed that "The respondent did not rely on

any proviso to section 92 of the Evidence Ordinance. Nor did he allege a trust of

the kind which section 5 (3) of the Trusts Ordinance permits to be established by

oral evidence. In the result, the learned trial Judge should not have admitted

evidence for the purpose of contradicting, varying, adding to or subtracting from

the terms of two notarial instruments each of which unambiguously purported to

record a transaction between a vendor and his purchaser (not between a mortgagor

and his mortgagee)."

In the case ofW. N. William Fernando vs. N. Roslyn Cooray 59 NLR

169 (Basnayake C. J., dissenting), (a bench of five Judges) it was held that "in the

absence of any allegation of fraud or trust, it is not open to a party, who conveys

immovable property for valuable consideration by a deed which is ex facie a

contract of sale but subject to the reservation that he is entitled to re-purchase it

within a stipulated period on the repayment of the consideration together with

interest thereon, to lead parol evidence of surrounding circumstances to show that

the transaction was not a sale but a mortgage. Such parol evidence, even if

admitted without objection, would offend the provisions of section 92 of the

Evidence Ordinance and cannot be acted upon."

In the said circumstances I find no reason to interfere with the said

judgment of the learned District Judge dated 26.02.1998. Therefore I dismiss the

instant appeal of the Appellants with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

( I

J\

t I I

\ i