==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA 100/2004 HC Ratnapura Case No: 105/2001

Dambuluwana Balikiyanlage Ajith Namal Dambuluwana Balikiyanlage Ajith Gunendra

Defendant Appellants Vs. The Attorney General Attorney General’s Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

C.A. 100/2004

Before

Counsel

Argued & Decided on

*******

Sisira de A brew ,J.

1

H.C. Ratnapura Case No: 105/2001

Sisira de Abrew,J. & P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

Dr. Ranjit Fernando for the Accused-Appellant.

Dileepa Peeris SSC. For the Respondent.

11.02.2013

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The two Accused-Appellants in this case were convicted of the

murder of a man named Dambuluwana Balikiyannalage Peter

and were sentenced to death. Being aggrieved by the said

conviction and the sentence, they have appealed to this Court.

Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as follows:

The deceased person who was living 1n the

neighbourhood of the Accused-Appellant was suspected to

2

have given some information to the Excise Department with

regard to the illicit liquor of the Accused-Appellant. The two

accused suspected the deceased person as the one who gave

the said information. According to the evidence this

information has been given prior to the date of incident.

On 25.03.1999 when the deceased person and his

wife were going on the road, the 2nd Accused who was digging

the road with a mammoty, in an aggressive manner, asked

them whether they were going to Ratnapura that day also.

There was an exchange of words over this questioning and

thereafter the 2nd accused chased after the deceased and

attacked him with the mammoty that he had. The deceased

person who fell on the ground due to this blow got up and ran

away. Thereafter he climbed a tree. The 1st and 2nd Accused

at this stage went near the tree and started pelting stones at

the deceased who was on the tree. After the deceased got

down from the tree, both accused attacked the deceased.

According to the evidence of Chandrawathie, the wife of the

deceased person, the 1st accused attacked the deceased with

3

an iron rod and the 2nd accused attacked the deceased with a

mammoty. The incident was witnessed by Chandrawathie.

The digging of the road spoken to by Chandrawathie was

corroborated by the Police Officer's evidence. According to the

Police Officer there were marks on the trunk of the tree

indicating that stones had been hurled. Police Officer further

stated that there were stains of blood near the tree. The

learned counsel appearing for the Accused-Appellants

submitted the following grounds.

1) The learned trial Judge should have, on the evidence led

at the trial, convicted the Accused-Appellant of the

offence of culpable homicide not amounting to murder

on the basis that they did not have murderous intention.

2) The learned trial judge erred by passing the sentence of

death notwithstanding the provisions set out in Children

and Young Persons Ordinance, Youthful Offenders

Ordinance, Section 53 of the Penal Code and Section

281 of the Criminal Procedure Code.

4

The Learned counsel for the Accused-Appellants however

agreed that the said legal provisions would be applicable only

at the time of conviction. The learned counsel made an

application under Section 351 of the Criminal Procedure Code

to admit fresh evidence to prove that the Accused-Appellants

were, at the time of the incident, below 16 years of age. The

contention of the learned counsel for the Accused-Appellant

was that they were under 16 years of age at the time of the

incident. But we note that no such evidence has been led at

the trial. The 181 Accused-Appellant who made a dock

statement did not even state his age. The 2nd Accused did not

make a dock statement. If they were under 16 years of age at

the time of the incident there were enough opportunities for

them to produce the said material at the trial. Learned

counsel who appeared for the Accused-Appellants did not,

even at the beginning of the trial, bring to the notice of court

about the age of the Accused-Appellant. When the Police

Officer gave evidence, learned Defence Counsel who appeared

for the Accused at the trial did not even question the Police

Officer on the age of the Accused-Appellant. When we consider

5

all these matters, we are unable to permit the application

made by the learned counsel for the Accused-Appellant under

Section 351 of the Criminal Procedure Code. We have gone

through the evidence and are of the opinion that there is no

evidence to conclude that the Accused-Appellant was, at the

time of the incident, under 16 years of age. When we consider

the above matters, we hold that there is no merit in ground No

2 urged by learned counsel for the Accused-Appellant.

The learned counsel submitted that contradictions

marked V2, V3 and VS are vital. According to V2, V3 and VS

Chandrawathie when giving evidence at the inquest has

implicated the mother of the Accused-Appellant. Mother of the

accused is not an accused person in this case. We have

considered the contradictions marked V2,V3 and VS and are

of opinion that the said contradictions do not create a

reasonable doubt in the prosecution case.

The learned counsel for the accused-Appellant

submitted that the Accused at the time of committing the

Offence did not entertain murderous intention. When deciding

6

whether an accused person had murderous intention or not

the Court can consider various factors. Some of them may be

set out as follows. The weapons used by them. Number of

injuries caused by the accused-appellant. The place of injury.

The force used by the assailant to cause the injury.

These are some of the factors that court should consider

when deciding whether the assailant had murderous

intention or not. In this case, the 2nd accused had used a

mammoty and the 1st Accused had used an iron rod.

Deceased had sustained injuries on the head and on the face.

According to the Medical Evidence the skull has been

fractured and this fracture has extended to the base of the

skull. The deceased had sustained other injuries on the face.

After the Ist attack on the deceased person, he ran away from

the scene. The Accused-Appellant chased after the deceased

who climbed a tree. The Accused-Appellant did not stop at

that stage and pelted stones at the deceased person. When

the deceased person got down from the tree, the accused-

appellants attacked the deceased person. All these matters

·' 7

indicate that the both accused-appellants had murderous

intention at the time of the incident. When we consider all

these matters, we hold that there is no merit in the 1st ground

urged by the Accused-Appellant.

We have gone through the evidence led at the trial and are

of the opinion that the prosecution has proved the case

beyond reasonable doubt. We hold that there is no merit in

this appeal. For the reasons stated above we affirm the

convictions and the sentences of both accused-appellants and

dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake,J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APEPAL

Jmr/-