==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A. 176/2010 H.C. Negombo Case No: 200/2002

Hon. Attorney General, Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

Complainant -Vs-

Sellamuttu Jeewa Malar

Defendant Appellant

C.A. 176/2010

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

Sisira.J. de A brew ,J.

1

H.C. Negombo Case No: 200/2002

Sisira.J. de Abrew,J. &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

Dr. Ranjit Fernando with Ms. Samanthie

Rajapakshe for the accused-appellant.

W.N. Bandara DSG. for the A.G.

21.06.2013.

********

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted for importing and

being in possession of 991 grams of heroin. Learned trial Judge, on

both counts, imposed life imprisonment on the accused-appellant.

2

Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence she has

appealed to this Court.

Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as follows:

The accused-appellant who arrived at Bandaranayake

International Air Port from India was arrested by the officers

"V' attached to Police Narcotic"S Bureau. At the time of the arrest she

was having three travelling bags and two boxes on the trolley that

she was pushing. The officers attached to the Police Narcotics

Bureau examined the bags and in one bag, they found 20

containers which indicate that there was Calgate tooth powder

inside the containers. When they examined each containers they

found heroin in 13 containers. The accused-appellant in his dock

statement did not deny the possession of the said 20 containers.

She took up the position that somebody at the Indian Airport gave

this bag to her and requested her to handover the bag to a person

in Colombo. Her position was that she was unaware of the contents

of the 20 containers.

3

The learned counsel appearing for the accused-appellant

contended that she did not have any knowledge of heroin found in

the containers and that therefore she cannot be convicted for the

two offences that I have described above. This was the main

contention of the learned counsel for the accused-appellant. I now

advert to this contention. In deciding whether there is any truth in

the dock statement of the accused-appellant and whether the

argument of learned counsel for the accused-appellant can be

accepted or not following matters are relevant.

1) Whether the accused-appellant would accept a bag given by an

unknown person in India.

2) Whether the said unknown person gave his address to her.

3) Whether she would undertake to handover a bag to a person

unknown to her.

4) She, in her dock statement, does not indicate the name of the

person who gave the bag and the name of the person to whom

the bag to be handed over.

4

5) The bag was unlocked. If the bag was unlocked why didn't

she open the bag and examine.

In my view no reasonable prudent person will accept a bag

from an unknown person in India to be given to another person in

Colombo. When I consider all these matters, I am unable to accept

the contention that the accused-appellant did not have any

knowledge of the contents of the 13 containers of heroin found in

the bag carried by the accused-appellant. Further I am unable to

accept the dock statement of the accused-appellant.

I further hold that the dock statement of the accused-

appellant is not capable of creating any reasonable doubt in the

prosecution case. When I consider the evidence led at the trial, I

hold the view that the prosecution has proved its case beyond

reasonable doubt. I therefore refuse to interfere with the judgment

of the learned High Court Judge.

5

For the above reasons, I affirm the convictions and the

sentences imposed by the learned trial Judge and dismiss the

appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Jmr/-