==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

I I I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRILANKA

C A 1364/2000 (F) D.C. Embilipitiya 3985 / L

Abekoon J alath Pathiranage Karunawathie, Dematapelassa, Kiri Ibbanwewa.

Vs.

Suduhakuruge Methoris, Dematapelassa, Kiri Ibbanwewa.

NOW BETWEEN

Plaintiff

Defendant

Abekoon Jalath Pathiranage Karunawathie, Dematapelassa, Kiri Ibbanwewa.

Plaintiff Appellant

Vs.

Suduhakuruge Methoris, Dematapelassa, Kiri Ibbanwewa.

Defendant Respondent

I 1

I

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

Anuruddha Dharmaratne with Indika J ayaweera for the Plaintiff Appellant

P.P. Gunasena for the Defendant Respondent

06.l2.2013

17.02.2014

The Plaintiff Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant)

instituted the said action in the District Court of Embilipitiya praying for a

declaration of title and to eject the Defendant Respondent (hereinafter referred to

as the Respondent) from the land described in the 2

nd and 3rd schedules to the

plaint. The Respondent prayed for a dismissal of the Appellants' action and a

judgment as prayed for in the answer. The case proceeded to trial upon 22 issues.

After trial the learned Additional District Judge dismissed the Appellants' action as

well as the Respondent's claim in reconvention with costs. Being aggrieved by the

said judgment dated 21.09.2000 the Appellant has preferred the instant appeal to

this court.

The learned Counsel for the Appellant contended that the learned

Additional District Judge has not answered the issues raised by the parties.

I I

I I

f

\

I I

3

I have perused the proceedings of the said case and the judgment. The

Appellant and the Respondent both have raised issues. The learned Additional

District Judge has not answered the said issues. No doubt that the said judgment of

the learned Additional District Judge is not in conformity with the requisites of

Section 187 of the Civil Procedure Code.

This Court has abundantly stressed that the judgments should be in

compliance with the provisions contained in Section 187 of the Civil Procedure

Code. When writing a judgment the trial judge should safely consider the points

for determination and should record his decision thereon. It must be born in mind

of the trial judge that the issues which have been accepted by him should not be

left unanswered. He is bound by a legal duty under section 187 of the Civil

Procedure Code to deliver a proper and complete judgment answering the issues

raised at the trial.

Section 187 of the Civil Procedure Code stipulates that: - "The

judgment shall contain a concise statement of the case, the points for

determination, the decision thereon, and the reasons for such decision." It is sad to

note that in his judgment the learned District judge has not stated the points for

determination and the decision thereon.

In the case of Dona Lucihamy Vs Ciciliyanahamy 59 NLR 214 it was

held that "Bare answers, without reasons, to issues or points of contest raised in a

trial are not a compliance with the requirements of section 187 of the Civil

Procedure Code." In the case of Warnakula Vs. Ramani Jayawardane [1990] 1

SLR 206 it was held that "Bare answers to issues without reasons are not in

compliance with the requirements of Section 187 of the Civil Procedure Code. The

evidence germane to each issue must be reviewed or examined. The judge must

I

)

I I\

I;

I ! ,

I

I

\ I

I \

1tII

l

tI

4

evaluate and consider the totality of the evidence. Giving a short summary of the

evidence of the parties and witnesses and stating that he prefers to accept the

evidence of one party without giving reasons are insufficient."

Hence I am of the view that the failure of the learned trial judge to

state in his judgment the points for determination and to answer them IS III

violation of statutory provisions contained in the Civil Procedure Code.

Therefore I set aside the judgment and decree of the learned

Additional District Judge dated 21.09.2000 and allow the prayer (a) of the petition

of appeal of the Appellant without cost. I accordingly order a re-trial. The Registrar

of this court is directed to send the main case record to the District Court of

Embilipitiya. The learned District Judge of Embilipitiya is directed to hear and

conclude the case expeditiously.

Re-trial ordered.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

I I

~ I tI fI

\

I

I