==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

1 1 I I I I

I

I

!

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA.

C.A. No. 534/97(F)

DC Kandy 16866/L

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON :

Anulawathie Menike alias Mallika

Samarathunga, 685, Pallegama,

Meddepattuwa, Ampitiya, Kandy.

Defendant-Appellant -I

1. D.M.M. Fernando

2. L.S.P. Weerasinghe

Both of Pallegama, Ampitiya,

Kandy.

Plaintiff-Respondents

Deepali Wijesundera, J. and

M.M.A. Gaffoor, J

D.M.G. Dissanayake with S.c. Balasuriya for the

Defendant Appellant.

Shantha Jayawardena with Chamara Nanayakkarawasam

for the Plaintiff Respondent.

13.02.2015

16.07.2015

f

2

Gaffoor J.,

The 1st and 2nd Plaintiffs have on 02.10.1991 filed this action in the District

Court of Kandy for a declaration of title of the lands morefully described in

schedule It q, q), qz of the Plaintiffs, ejectment of the Defendant therefrom,

damages and costs.

They state that the lands described in Itq q) schedules are depicted as lot 1

in Plan No. 18/35 made by CG. Kreltszhein, Licensed Surveyor, and the full land

including the land described in schedule Itqz . Is shown as Lot 1 and 2 in Plan No.

2252 made by G.W. Wijewardena, Licensed Surveyor.

The Plaintiffs further say that on or about 19.12.1989 the Defendant

disputed the south-east portion of the said land and thereby caused damages in a

sum of Rs. 3000/- and further damages in a sum of Rs. 500/- per month. However,

it will be noted that the plaintiffs have failed to give a schedule of the portion in

south-eastern side of their land in the Plaint, this is a grave irregularity. When the

Plaintiffs are asking for ejectment of the Defendant from a portion of their land,

they must state the exact portion with metes and bounds in their plaint.

Section 41 of the Civil Procedure Code states: Itwhen the claim made in the

action is for some specific portion of land, or for some share or interest in a

specific portion of land then the portion of land must be described in the plaint,

so far as possible by reference to physical mates and bounds or by reference to a

sufficient sketch, map, or plan to be appended to the plaint, and not by name

only". In otherwords the Plaintiff must describe the portion disputed by the

Defendant in a separate schedule in the plaint.

t t

\

tI

3

In Dayawathie vs Baby Nona Panditharatne CA 728/93{F} - District Court

Kalutara case No. 3597/L, CA. Minute dated 10.05.2001, it was held that, a party

who claims prescriptive title to a particular allotment of land is obliged to clearly

describe it either by boundaries or extent of the land that he claims to have

prescribed. Section 41 of the Civil Procedure Code requires to define such land

with reference to physical metes and bounds or by map or sketch.

It is, thus, an imperative requirement on the part of the Plaintiff to-give or

described the portion of their land described or alleged to be possessed by the

Defendant.

Furthermore, the Plaintiff say that their lands are shown as Lot 1 and 2 in

Plan No. 2252 made by P.W. Wijewardena, Licensed Surveyor. If that be so, they

must be owning their land dividedly and with clear boundaries. But they have not

stated who are the owners of Lot 1 and Lot 2. In other words, the Plaintiffs have

failed to state which lot belongs to 1st Plaintiff and which lot to the 2nd Plaintiff.

This is important because the court must know if the south-eastern portion is

disturbed by the Defendant, this south eastern portion falls within which lot is to

be clearly ascertained.

In paragraph 18 of the amended Plaint the Plaintiffs state that their

possession on the eastern portion of the land is disturbed. But in paragraph 21{b},

the Plaintiffs are asking to eject the Defendant from these lands {referring to the

lands described in schedule "A", liB" and "C" of the Plaint}. This prayer contradicts

the averment in para. 18 of the Plaint. The plaintiffs clearly state that the

Defendant had disturbed only the south eastern and not the entire land. Then

how can they ask for relief for ejectment from the entire land? This relief cannot

4

be granted, as they have not alleged that this Defendant had disturbed possession

ofthe entire land.

When the Surveyor P.W. Wijewardena gave evidence, the Plaintiff's

attorney or the court had failed to elicit evidence to identify the south-eastern

portion alleged to be disturbed by the Defendant through the Surveyor. This is a

fatal irregularity. Also when considering the boundaries given for the three lots

and the boundaries shown in Plan No. 18/35 (P3) they are not the same. Surveyor

Wijewardena also admitted that these three lots are separate lots and their

boundaries differ from each other (page 97 of the appeal brief). This evidence of

the Surveyor corroborates the position of the Appellant that these three portions

of the land described in schedules A, Band C of the Plaint have three different

names, different extents and different boundaries which do not tally with the lots

shown in Plan No. 2252.

The Plaintiff's position is that the lands described in schedule A, Band C of

the plaint depicted as Lots 1 and 2 in Plan No. 2252(Pl) made by P.W.

Wijewardena, Licensed Surveyor (para 6 of the amended plaint). But the 1st

Plaintiff in her cross examination admitted that the 12 boundaries given for the

three lands are not described in Pl (page 133). It is, therefore, clear that the

boundaries given in the plaint and in P 1 are not identical but differ, as such, it

cannot be clearly said that the lands of the Plaintiffs have been clearly identified

by the Surveyor. Though there are several plans submitted by the plaintiffs, none

of the plans show the land in dispute with clear metes and bounds. The 1st

Plaintiff has admitted in her evidence that except for Plan marked P2, all other

plans were made after she bought the lands in dispute by deed marked P16.

(pages 151 and 155 of the appeal brief).

• 5

The 1st Plaintiff states in her cross examination that she and her son (2nd

Plaintiff) are the owners of the lands A, Band C which she bought on 25.02.1981

and after she bought the lands she got the lands surveyed by the Surveyor

Wijewardena on 28.02.1981 (Pl). She also says that her vendor showed the

boundaries of the land. From this evidence, it is clear that when the lands were

bought by the 1st Plaintiff she did not know the boundaries of the land (see pages

151, 152 of the appeal brief).

When the case was taken up for trial, 1 -15 issues had been raised by the

Plaintiffs and 16-31 Issues by the Defendant. One admission was recorded to the

effect that in respect of the lands the Plaintiff had instituted an action No.

13242/L against the Defendant's mother and after her death, the Defendant was

substituted in her place and thereafter the Plaintiff had withdrawn the action

with liberty to file a fresh action. However, no reason is given as to why or on

which ground the action was withdrawn. If the Defendant had been substituted in

place of the deceased Defendant, that action could have been continued and

decided by court without a fresh action. There was no necessity to withdraw the

action.

The Defendant has raised two Issues, Nos. 25 and 26 about a case No.

9221/91 filed in the Primary Court of Kandy in respect of the land alleged to be

possessed by the Defendant. Learned Primary Court Judge had decided the case

in favour of the Defendant, affirming her possession of the land in dispute. The

Defendant states in para. 40 of her amended Answer that in terms of the Primary

Court order, she had proved that she is in possession of the land morefully

described in schedule "A" of the Answer.

1I I I! I

6

On a careful perusal of schedules A, Band C in the Plaint it is manifest that the

said two lots, as stated by the Plaintiff are depicted as Lot 1 and 2 in Plan No.

2252. The Plan is marked as P1. In her evidence in chief (page 42 of the appeal

brief) the Plaintiff says that Lots 1 and 2 in Plan No. 2276(Vl). I claim rights and

also I claim right to a portion of Lot 3. Whereas the Defendant in her answer (see

schedule "A" and "B") claims rights to schedule I and 2 morefully described in Plan

No. 2276(Vl).

On a comparison of Plan No. 2252 and 2276 only lot 1 in 2252 resembles lot

3 in 2276 and other lots in 2252 and 2296 differ in shape, size and extent, when

both parties are claiming the same land with some discrepancies, the lands

claimed by the Plaintiff and the Defendant should be clearly identified in the said

Plans, which has not been done in this case. As such the Plaintiffs have failed to

identify the lands claimed by them. With regard to this the learned District

Judge's observation is important. He says "Defendant says that she possesses lot

2 and 3 in Plan Vl and that Lot 3 is shown as Lot 2 and 3 in Plan marked V3 (Plan

No. 2002 Several Plans are submitted in connection with this case. On an

examination of all these plans, the only reason that is clear is that the lots claimed

by the Plaintiffs and the land (lots) belonged and claimed by the Defendant are all

situated adjoining each other" - (see page 7 and 8 of the judgment).

If this is the findings of the learned Judge, it is manifestly clear that the

learned Judge has failed to identify the lands claimed by the Plaintiffs and the

Defendant. Hence, the judgment is misconceived and wrong.

III

f

~ Ii Il

~

;1

r I 7

If the lands claimed by the Plaintiff and the Defendant are adjacent lands, it

is easy to identify with the help of superimposition of the Plans submitted in this

case. But it has not been done. Identification of the corpus is necessary in a rei-

vindicatory action.

In the absence of the identification of the portion on the south eastern side

with metes and bounds, the judgment is on a wrong footing.

For the reason stated, we allow the appeal and set aside the judgment of

the learned District Judge. We make no order as to costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Wijesundera J.,

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

i

~ I It

r ; , I