==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I i IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

Kiriyage Susil Rajapakshe

Accused -Appellan t.

C.A. Appeal No. 109/2010

H.C. Puttalam Case No: 72/2006

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

-Vs-

Republic of Sri Lanka

Respondent

Sisira J. de Abrew ,J. (Acting PICA) &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

A.K. Chandrakantha for the Accused-Appellant.

Kapila Waidyaratne DSG for the Respondent.

09.12.2013

1

Iti

f t

ifI

Sisira J. de Abrew,J. (Acting PICA)

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases. The accused-

appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of his own brother named

Kiriyage Abeyruwan and was sentenced to death.

Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence he has

appealed to this Court. Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as

follows. On the day of the incident the accused was seen taking the

deceased person to a cadjan hut after placing a noose round the neck of the

deceased person. At this time one end of the noose of the rope was in the

hands of the accused person. This was witnessed by the brother and brother

in law of the accused person. After 10-15 times the accused was seen

loitering around the said hut in which the police found the deceased

hanging. The accused-appellant in his allocutus said that the deceased

was hanged by his brother Denzil Rajapakshe and his brother in law Nimal

Tilakaratne. Both Nimal Tilakaratne and Denzil Rajapakse gave evidence at

the trial. But the accused-appellant did not suggest to them that murder

was committed by them. The accused-appellant in his dock statement took

up the position that the deceased person tried to commit suicide by hanging

himself but he prevented it.

2

(

t

II

I,

f

~ I ! II I t

Learned counsel appearing for the accused-appellant invites this

Court to consider the statement made in his allocutus and acquit him. But

the accused-appellant has taken 2 contradictory positions in his allocutus

and dock statement. Therefore we are unable to act on the allocutus of the

accused -appellan t.

The Doctor who gave evidence had stated that the deceased person

could not have committed suicide as the deceased person was suffering

from an old fracture in his left hand. Thus the fact that the deceased person

committed suicide by hanging himself has to be rejected. Therefore the

position taken up by the accused-appellant in his dock statement cannot be

accepted and is not capable of creating a reasonable doubt in the

prosecution case. Therefore the learned trial judge is correct when he

rejected the dock statement. According to the medical evidence the deceased

person had sustained an injury on his head. He had also sustained an

injury on his left knee. According to the medical evidence there was smell

of alcohol in the stomach contents of the deceased person. When we

consider the medical evidence it appears that the deceased person had

suffered an injury on the head and an injury on his knee. This suggests

that, prior to the hanging, he had been assaulted.

Doctor in his evidence has said that for one person to hang the

deceased he ( the deceased) should have been made partly unconscious.

3

(II,f II

t ! f II j

He has also expressed opinion that if it did not happen, person who did it

would need assistance of several people. But as I pointed out earlier the

deceased had suffered a head injury and an injury on the knee. This

suggests that the deceased person had been debilitated prior to the

hanging. Therefore the said evidence given by the Doctor does not create

a reasonable doubt in the prosecution case. When we consider the evidence

led at the trial, we hold that the prosecution has proved its case beyond

reasonable doubt.

We hold that there is no merit in this appeal. For the above

reasons, we affirm the conviction and the sentence and dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Kpmj-

4

! f i ,

I

ft I • ! ,! ! ,