==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

CA 25/09

B. Upali Senarathne alias Buddadasage Upali

Accused Appellant

HC-Anuradhapura-l27/00

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

Vs

The Attorney General

Respondent

Sisira J. de Abrew, J. (P/CA) &

P.W.D.C. Jatathilaka, J.

Sudath Karavita for Accused Appellant

Thusith Mudalige, SSC for AG

06.03.2014

1

Sisira J. de Abrew, J. (PiCA)

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused appellant in this case was convicted for raping

a girl named Disna Udayangani and was sentenced to a term

of 8 years Rigorous Imprisonment, to pay a fine of

Rs. 5000/- carrying a default sentence of 6 months Rigorous

Imprisonment and to pay a sum of Rs. 200,000/-as

compensation to the prosecutrix carrying a default sentence

of 4 years Rigorous Imprisonment. Being aggrieved by the

said conviction and the sentence he has appealed to this

court. He was acquitted of the charge of abduction.

Before I deal with the facts of this case, I would like to

observe that the default sentence imposed by the learned

trial judge for non-payment of the compensation is illegal.

The maximum default sentence that can be imposed for non-

payment of compensation ordered by the judge In respect of

a charge of rape is 2 years (vide Section 364 (4) of the

Penal Code as amended by Act No.22 of 1995).

2

The facts of this case may be briefly summarized as

follows;

The prosecutrix Udayangani eloped with the accused

appellant on 17.05.1999 as she was harassed by her

grandmother. On this day, her mother too had been present

at home. However she eloped with the accused appellant.

Both the accused appellant and Udayangani went to the house

of one Jayarathne. They both slept together in the house

of Jayarathne on 17.05.1999. Prosecutrix says that the

accused appellant committed sexual intercourse on her in

the night of 17th May without her consent. She further says

that prior to this incident she had not had sexual

intercourse with anyone. The Doctor who examined

Udayangani on 22.05.1999 was questioned on this point.

According to the Doctor, there were old tears in the hymen.

Doctor says if sexual intercourse was first committed on

17.05.1999, the old tears observed by him could not have

3

taken place. Therefore, it appears that the evidence of

the prosecutrix has been contradicted by the Medical

Evidence.

In a case of rape, it is dangerous to act on the

uncorroborated evidence of the prosecutrix. This view was

expressed by His Lordship Justice Ranj i th Dheerarathne in

Sunil Vs. Attorney General 1986 1 SLR page 230 wherein His

Lordship held thus "It is very dangerous to act on

uncorroborated testimony of a woman of a sex offence, but

if her evidence is convincing such evidence could be acted

on even in the absence of corroboration". In king Vs.

Athukorala 50 NLR 256 Gratiaen, J. held that "when an

accused is charged with rape, corroboration of the story of

the prosecutrix must come from some independent quarter and

not from the prosecutrix herself. A complaint made by the

prosecutrix to the Police in which she implicated the

accused cannot be regarded as corroboration of her

evidence".

4

As I pointed out earlier, the medical evidence has

contradicted the evidence of the prosecutrix. Learned

trial judge at page 175 of the brief concluded that

Udayangani had had sex with one of her classmates. But

there is no such evidence led at the trial. The

prosecutrix Udayangani had said that she was having a love

affair with one of her classmates but did not have

sz~ (V\.t~e...ou.,y-(!~ ~ (Vide page 92 of the brief). /'

Therefore, we hold that

the learned trial judge has committed a misdirection on

this point.

When we consider the evidence of the prosecutrix Udayangani

and the Medical evidence, it is difficult to accept, beyond

reasonable doubt, the story of the prosecutrix. That is to

say that she had had first sexual intercourse on

17.05.1999. We feel that there is a reasonable doubt on

this point. Learned Senior State counsel too submits that

he has no answer to this question and unable to support the

conviction. For the above reasons, we set aside the

5

I

conviction and the sentence and acquit the accused

appellant of the charge of rape.

Appeal is allowed.

PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

LA/-

6

i ! l I i t ! t i r

I

t i

~ t