==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Galapitagedara Shelton Seelarathne,

Dankanda, Dambagolla.

Plaintiff

C.A Appeal No: 1256/99(F}

D,C,Matale Case No: 2087/P Vs

1. Galapita Gedara Dingiri Banda,

Dankanda, Dambagolla.

And 3 Others

Defendants

And now between

Damagolle Gedara Gnanawathi,

Dankanda, Dambagolla.

3A Defendant-Appellant

Vs

Galapita Gedara Shelton

Seelarathna,

Dankanda, Dambagolla.

Plaintiff-Respondent

I I I

Before: H.N.J.Perera, J

1. Galapita Gedara Dingiri

Banda,

Dankanda, Dambagolla.

And 2 others

Defenda nts-Respondents

Counsel: Widura Ranawake with A.D.H.Gunawardena for the

3A Defendant-Appellant

Argued On: 20.09.2013

Written Submissions: 23.09.2013

Decided On: 22.11.2013

H.N.J.Perera,J.

The Plaintiff instituted this action for the partition of a land called

Nagahamulahena described in the schedule to the plaint. According

to the plaint the parties are entitled to undivided shares of the

corpus as described in paragraph 13 of the plaint as per the pedigree

set out in the plaint.

At the commencement of the trial before the District Court of Matale

on 03.04.1997, the parties admitted that the land described in the

schedule to the plaint and to be partitioned is depicted in the

preliminary plan No. 3537 dated 06.03.1996 and certified by

S.Ranchagoda, Licenced Surveyor, and also the jurisdiction of the

court. ,

, i!

J

j )

I

Issue number 1 and 2 were raised by the plaintiff and the 4th

defendant raised issues bearing number 3 and 4. The 4th defendant

stated in her statement of claim that she received an undivided share

of the corpus by deed bearing No 30460 dated 03.08.1957. However

she did not give evidence at the trial nor produce this deed in

evidence. By issue no 3 and 4, the 4th defendant claimed prescriptive

title to the entire land sought to be partitioned in this action.

The plaintiff gave evidence and produced documents marked Pi to P

10 in support of his claim. Although the 4th defendant had claimed

prescriptive title to the entire land she did not give evidence or

produce any evidence to establish that she has prescribed to the land

sought to be partitioned. She had also stated in her statement of

claim that she is a co-owner of the said land. The 3A defendant-

Appellant gave evidence on her behalf. The learned District Judge

after trial delivered judgment on 23.04.1999 and held that lot No 4

of the preliminary plan to be allotted to the 4th defendant since she

had prescribed the aforesaid portion and the balance portion of the

corpus to be divided amongst the plaintiff and the 1st to 3rd

defendant's per shares given in the judgment.

It was contended by the Counsel for the 3rd defendant-Appellant that

the learned District Judge had erred in law by deciding deed P4 as a

valid revocation of gift and accepting same as evidence to prove the

pedigree of the plaintiff. The plaintiff in his plaint as well as in giving

evidence had stated that a person called Waduge Themis was the

original owner of the land sought to be partitioned and the said

Themis had transferred the land to Waduge Balahamy deed of

transfer bearing No 1925 dated 27.12.1924, marked P2. The plaintiff

further stated that the said Balahamy gifted the land to her children

Agnus (3 rd defendant), Wimalarathna, Lilawathie (2

nd defendant)

Jemis Appuhamy, Dingiri Banda (1st defendant), Kusumawathie and

iJ

i

Jayasinghe deed of gift bearing No 17495 dated 01.02.1955 marked

P3.lt is the position of the 3

rd defendant that she had accepted the

aforesaid gift on her behalf as well as the other donees who were

minors at the time of the execution of deed P3.

The plaintiff stated that the deed of gift marked P3 had been

revoked by the donor by deed of revocation of gift bearing No 18144

dated 05.12.1955 marked P4.lt was the position of the plaintiff that

the said Balahamy after the said revocation transferred her rights by

deeds marked P5, P8 and P9.

It is the contention of the Counsel for the 3

rd Defendant-Appellant

that Waduge Balahamy had executed deed of cancellation of gift

marked P4 unilaterally, without the consent of the donees in P3 and

that the donor Balahamy had not reserved her right to revoke the

gift at the time of execution of the deed of gift marked P3, and

therefore the donation made by P3 was an absolute gift which is

under Roman Dutch Law irrevocable. It is further submitted that the

deed of gift P3 could not have been revoked by the donor by

execution of the deed of revocation of gift P4 and therefore P4 has

no force in law and therefore no title had passed to the vendees in

P5, P8, and P9 since the vendor in all three deeds had no title to the

corpus at the time of execution of those deeds.

The purpose to raise issues and admissions in terms of the Civil

Procedure Code is in one respect to identify each party's case before

court. Issues are generally raised from the pleadings. It is also

permissible to raise issues when evidence transpire in court and

based on the evidence issues could be suggested.

In the case of The Tasmania (1890) 15 App. Cases 223 Lord Herschell

said {/ It appears to me that under these circumstances, a court of

Appeal ought only to decide in favour of an appellant on a ground

rI!

there put forward for the first time, if it is satisfied beyond doubt,

first, that it has before it all the facts bearing upon the new

contention, as completely as would have been the case if the

controversy had arisen at the trial; and, next, that no satisfactory

explanation could have been offered by those whose conduct is

impugned, if an opportunity for explanation had been afforded them

when in the witness box.

In Appuhamy Vs Nona 15 NLR 311 it was held by Pereira, J that:-

"Under our procedure all the contentious matter between the

parties to a civil suit is, so to say, focussed in the issues of law and

fact framed. Whatever is not involved in the issues is to be taken as

admitted by one party or the other, and under our procedure it is not

open to a party to put forward a ground for the first time in appeal

unless it might have been put forward in the court below under

some, one or other of the issues framed, and when such a ground

that is to say, a ground that might have been put forward in appeal

for the first time, the cautions indicated in the Tesmania may well be

observed."

The learned district judge had entered judgment in favour of the

plaintiff-respondent based on admissions and evidence recorded at

the trial. The plaintiff in his evidence has stated that the said

Balahamy gifted the land to her children by a deed of gift bearing No

17495 marked P3, and that the said deed marked P3 was revoked by

the donor by a deed of revocation No 18144 marked P4. The plaintiff

had stated further that the said Balaharny e:Kecuted deeds P5, P8 and

P9 on the strength of the title acquired by her by the aforesaid deed

of revocation of gift. All these matters had been pleaded by the

plaintiff in the plaint and accordingly evidence had been led to prove

the pedigree put forward by the plaintiff In this case. The plaintiff

had marked deeds P1 to P10 in giving evidence without any

objections from any other party to this case.

In Wijewardene Vs Ellawala 1991 (2) SLR 14 it was held that the

failure to object to the deed being received in evidence would

amount to a waiver of the objections.

In Cinemas Limited Vs Sounderajan 1998 (2) Sri L.R. 17 it was held

that in a civil case when a document is tendered the opposing party

should immediately object to the document. Where the opposing

party fails to object, the trial judge has to admit the document unless

the document is forbidden by law to be received and no objection

can be taken in appeal

In Muttaiya Chetty Vs Harmanis Appu 4 N.L.R. where a promissory

note not duly cancelled having been tendered in evidence, without

objection taken, and judgment given for plaintiff, it was held that it

was too late in appeal to take that objection, and that the proper

course was to have made that question an issue in the case.

In Silva Vs Kindersley 18 NLR 85 it was held that in a civil suit, when a

document tendered in evidence by one party is not objected to by

the other, the document is to be deemed to constitute legally

admissible evidence as against the party who is sought to be

affected by it. It was further held in this case that it would be

manifestly unfair to a party who tenders a document in evidence if,

after he has been lu!led Llto security by lack of objection by his

opponent, he is suddenly required to meet for the first time in

appellate Court obje,:::tions to the receipt of the document in

evidence.

In this case it was a matter of which the 3

rd defendant- appellant was

perfectly cognizant when the action was tried in the court below,

and when she was called upon to meet the plaintiff's case she should

have asked the Judge to make that question an issue. I

In Cinemas Limited Vs Sounderanjan Jayasuriya, J further stated

that:-

"Thus In civil proceedings, it is of paramount importance for the

opponent to object to a document of it is inadmissible having regard

to the provisions of the Evidence Ordinance. Where he fails to do so,

the objections to admissibility cannot be raised for the first time in

appeal. The principle and rationale behind this rule is easily

understood. Had objection been taken, the party proposing to to

adduce the document would have tendered to the court evidence

aliunde and by the failure to take the objection the opposing party

has waived the objection."

The 3

A defendant- Appellant has filed her statement of claim and was

represented by a Counsel at the trial. No issue has been raised on her

behalf at the trial and the evidence given by the plaintiff has not

been challenged by the 3A defendant-appellant with regard to deed

marked P3 and P4. In fact the plaintiff had marked the deed P8

without any objection from the 3A defendant and proved some

rights to her. In fact the p1aintiff has tendered the deed No 30467

marked P8 and had stated that the 3

rd defendant, the mother of the

3A defendant is entitled to a 1/5 of 7/8 share of the corpus to be

partitioned. By P8 j the mother of the 3A defendant had purchase

shares from Balahamy, after she (Balahamy) had revoked the original

deed of gift marked P3 by PL!.. It could be said that the 3

rd defendant

had conceded the fac: that Balanamy became the owner of the said

property after she had revoked the said deed of gift P3 by the said

deed P4.

It is to be seen that the position taken up by the 3A defendant-

Appellant in appeal for the first time is not in accord with the case

presented by her in the District Court.

In Candappa Nee Bastian Vs Ponnambalampillai (1993) 1 Sri L.R 185

that a party cannot be permitted to present a case different from

that presented in the trial court where matters of fact are involved

which were not in issue at the trial such case not being one which

raises a pure question of law.

In Setha Vs Weerakoon 49 NLR 226 it was held that:-

'A new point which was not raised in the issues or in the course of

the trial cannot be raised for the first time in appeal, unless such

point might have been raised at the trial under one of the issues

framed, and the court of appeal has before it all the requisite

material for deciding the point, or the question is one of law and

nothing more./I

In Thilagaratnam Vs Athpunathan and others [1996] 2 Sri L.R. 66 it

was held:-

(1)Although there i$ a duty cast on Court to investigate title in a

partition action, the court can do so only within the limits of

pleadings, admissions, points of contest, evidence both

documentary and oral.

Per Anandacoomaraswamy, J

"court cannot go on a voyage of discovery tracing the title and

finding the shares in the corpus for them; otherwise parties will

tender their pleadings and expect the court to do their work and

their Attorneys-at-Law's work for them to get title to those shares in

the corpus./I

I

I am, therefore of opinion that this is not a matter which can be

raised for the first time in appeal.

It was also contended by the Counsel for the 3A defendant-Appellant

that the learned District Judge erred in law by deciding that

Karunawathie had inherited the entirety of Jayasinghe's share by

way of matrimonial inheritance.

The plaintiff whilst giving evidence had stated that Jayasinghe

received an undivided 7/8 x4/5 x1/3 by deed marked pg was married

to Karunawathie and died without having children. The widow of

Jayasinghe by deed marked P10 had transferred the entire rights of

the deceased Jayasinghe to plaintiff. The plaintiff also claimed the

entire rights of Jayasinghe by the said deed P10.lt is the contention

of the 3A defendant-Appellant that the entirety of Jayasingh's share

could not have devolved on karunawathie in view of the provisions in

section 25 and 26 of the Matrimonial Rights and Inheritance

Ordinance and Karunawathie :nherits only one half share of

Jayasinghe's rights. Brothers and sisters of deceased Jayasinghe

inherit the balance half share ~n view of t~1e said provisions in the

Matrimonial Rights and Inheritance Ordinance. This position had

been put to the plaintiff even at the t(ial by the Counsel for the 3A

defendant-Appellant. The learned District Judge had erred by

deciding that the entire rights of Jayainghe ,Jassed on to the plaintiff

in terms of deed P10.Therefore half share of the rights of deceased

Jayasinghe that is half of 7/8 x 4/5 x 1/3 share should devolve on his

sisters and brothers. Therefore that part o·~ the Judgment awarding

entire rights of Jayasinghe to the plaintiff ;nust be set aside. Those

shares awarded by the judgm2nt and interlocutory decree to the

plaintiff must be kept unt.ll:otted. The sisters and brothers of the

, i

i

deceased Jayasinghe are entitled to make an application to the

District court and to obtain the shares they are entitled to from the

share that is kept unallotted in this case.

Finally it is the contention of the Counsel for the 3A Defendant-

Appellant that the learned District Judge had erred in law deciding

that the 4th defendant had prescribed lot 4 of the preliminary Plan

marked Pl.

The 4th defendant filed a statement of claim and claimed that she

received an undivided share of the corpus by deed No 30460 dated

03.08.1957. However she did not give evidence or produce the said

deed at the trial. Issue No 3 and 4 was raised by the 4th defendant

and she claimed prescriptive title to the entire land sought to be

partitioned in this case.

The learned District Judge had held that the 4th defendant had

prescribed to lot 4 in preliminary Plan marked P1. It is contended on

'h behalf of the 3A defendant that the 4

L defendant could not

prescribe to the entire land since the plaintiff and 2nd and 3rd

defendants were also in possession and residing upon the land

sought to be partitioned. It is further submitted that the 4th

defendant did not give evidence and call or produce any evidence to

establish that she prescribEd th~ land scught to be partitioned and

or any portion thereof.

It is to be noted that plaintiff in cross examination had denied this

position taken up by the 4th defendant. The 3A defendant whilst

giving evidence had merely admitted that the 4th defendant was in

possession of a portion of the land over a period of time. It is

submitted that the learned District Judge had based his finding solely

on the answers given by the 3A defendant during cross examination.

The burden is cast on the 4th defendant to prove that by virtue of

adverse possession she had obtained a title adverse and

independent of the paper title of plaintiff and the other co-owners.

In Sirajudeen and others Vs Abbas [1994] 2 Sri L.R. 365 it was held

that:-

"Where a party invokes the prOViSions of section 3 of the

Prescription Ordinance in order to defeat the ownership of an

adverse claimant to immovable property, the burden of proof rests

squarely and fairly on him to establish a starting point for his or her

acquisition of prescriptive rights.

As regard the mode of proof of prescriptive possession, mere general

statements of witnesses that the plaintiff possessed the land in f

dispute for a number of years exceeding the prescriptive period are

not evidence of the uninterrupted and adverse possession necessary

to support a title by prescription. It is necessary that the witnesses

should speak to specific facts and the question of possession has to

be decided thereupon by court.

One of the essential elements of the plea of prescriptive title as

provided for in section 3 of the Prescription Ordinance is proof of

possession by a title adverse to or independent of that of the

claimant or plaintiff. The occupation of the premises must be such

character as is incompatible with the title of the owner.

In Hassan Vs Romanishamy 66 c.L.W 112, it was held 'That mere

statements of a witness, "I possessed the land" or "We possessed

the land" and "I planted plantain bushes and also vegetables", are

not sufficient to entitle him to a decree under section 3 of the

Prescription Ordinance, nor is the fact of payment of rates by itself

proof of possession for the purposes of this section.'

The burden was cast on the 4th defendant to prove that by virtue of

as adverse possession she had obtained a title adverse to and

independent of the paper title of the plaintiff and other owners.

According to section 3 of the Prescription Ordinance such a

possession must be undisturbed, uninterrupted, adverse to or

independent of that of the former possessor and should have lasted

for at least ten years before she could transform such possession

into prescriptive title. Here in the instant case the 4th defendant had

not given evidence. The mere statement of the 3A defendant that

she (the 4th) possessed this land is not sufficient to prove prescriptive

title. One of the essential elements of the plea of prescriptive title as

provided for in sectio:1 3 of the Prescription Ordinance is proof of

possession by a title adverse to or independent of that of the plaintiff

and other owners. There must be ptoof that the 4th defendant's

occupation of the premises was such chat dcter as is incompatible

with the title of others. It seems to me thot the trial Judge has not

properly addressed his mind to the importc.nt fact that the burden is

definitely on the 4th defendant to establish her plea of prescriptive

title. In my view in tr.2 present case tbere L; a significant absence of

clear and specific evidence on such acts of possession as would

entitle the 4th defendant to a decree in favour in terms of section 3

of the Prescription Ordinance. For reasons stated above J am of the

opinion that the learned District Judge had erred :n ~3W in deciding

that the 4th defendant had presc:ibed to lot 4 of the preliminary plan

marked P1.

Accordingly I answer the issues in the following manner.

(1) Yes. Subject to what is stated in my judgment.

(2) Yes. Lots 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the Prenmin:lry Plan marked Pl.

(3) No.

(4) No.

Parties are entitled to shares in the following manner.

(1)Plaintiff:-42/120

(2)1st Defendant :- 28/120

(3) 2nd Defendant:- 15/120

(4) 3

rd Defendant:- 21/120

(5)Unallotted:-14/120

The parties are entitle to improvements as stated in the judgment of

the District judge dated 23.04.1999.

The interlocutory decree is to be amended accordingly. I make no

order for costs.

Interlocutory decree -varied

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

!t II

l III I

f Jt I t

~ I

J