==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for Mandates

in the nature of Writs of Certiorari and

Mandamus under and in terms of Article

140 of the Constitution.

*******

Finlay Cold Storage (Private) Ltd.

309/7, Negombo Road,

Welisara.

PETITIONER

C.A. (Writ) Application No.630/2011

1

Vs

1. Public Utilities Commission of Sri

Lanka

6th Floor, BOC Merchant Tower

St. Michael's Road,

Colombo 03.

2. Dr. ]ayatissa De Costa PC

Chairman

Public Utilities Commission of Sri

Lanka

6th Floor, BOC Merchant Tower

St. Michael's Road, Colombo 03.

3. Mr. Damitha Kumarasinghe

Director General

Public Utilities Commission of Sri ,Lanka iI6th Floor, BOC Merchant Tower II,st. Michael's Road, iI

Colombo 03.

I4. Ms. Janaki Vithanagama ; ISecretary IPublic Utilities Commission of Sri ILanka

i

6th Floor, BOC Merchant Tower ~

St. Michael's Road,

Colombo 03. I!I5. Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) !i

50, Sir Chittampalam Gardiner Iii Mw, Colombo 02. I

6. Lanka Electricity Company i

(Private) Limited (LECO) tE411, Galle Road, l fColombo 03.

f tf

RESPONDENTS

ii

~Ifif!t

~ I

2 ii Ii I

BEFORE : Deepali Wijesundera J.

COUNSEL : Sanjeewa Jayawardhana PC

With Sen any Dayarathna for the

Petitioner.

Daya Guruge for the 1st to 4th

Respondents.

Riad Ameen for the 5th

Respondent.

Shantha Jayawardhana with

D.lmbuldeniya for the 6th

Respondent.

ARGUED ON : 04th August, 2014.

DECIDED ON : 31st October, 2014.

Deepali Wijesundera J.

The petitioner has filed this application to quash the decision P12

of the Public Utilities Commission dated 01/03/2011 not recommending

the changing of the existing General purpose Tariff Category of the

petitioner into Industrial Tariff Category as per Sec. 4 of the Gazette

3

Notification No. 1572/25 of 24/10/2008. And for a writ of Mandamus to

direct the 5th and 6th respondents to clarify the petitioner company's cold

chain facility as an "Industrial Installation' in terms of Industrial Tariff

Category for the purpose of computing Tariffs.

The petitioner by the relief prayed for in the petition is seeking to

have the refrigerated warehouse classified as an "Industrial Installation",

from the 'General purpose category'. The petitioner submitted that the

electricity supplied to his business facility is mainly utilized for the

generation of motive power and hence his facility falls within the

industries mentioned as being eligible to be charged an Industrial Tariff

under and in terms of Gazette notification No. 1572/25 dated

24/10/2008 marked as P2C.

The petitioner's argument was that on the basis of the

respondents report filed as AS his facility is primarily dependent on

motive power and as such his cold chain facility must be categorized as

an 'Industrial Installation' in terms of Industrial Tariff Category 2 (1 :2) for

the purpose of electricity tariffs. The petitioner also stated that it is

unreasonable and unfair for the respondents to refuse to grant the

relevant concessions lawfully available to industrial installations.

4

Producing some pictures of the petitioner's company as X the

petitioner stated that his cold chain logistical service is providing an

extension to the manufacturing facility and thereby clearly could be

classified as an industry under the said gazette P2C.

The petitioner further submitted that the petitioner's company

provided cold chain logistical services to all leading dairy and processed

meat manufactures thereby provided a temperature control

environment. The petitioner stated that the respondents have illogically

and with mala fides attempted to disregard the primary objectives of the

petitioner's company and have unreasonably focused their reasoning on

the term warehouse, merely because goods are stored there.

The learned counsel for the 5th respondent made an application to

be discharged from the instant case since the petitioner has not prayed

any relief from the 5th respondent.

The other respondents submitted that the petitioner's application

is misconceived in law. The respondents submitted that the 1st

respondent is empowered under Sri Lanka Electricity Act No. 20 of 2009

to regulate tariffs and other charges and that one of the ways the 1 st

5

respondent regulates tariffs is by way of the approval granted by it to the

cost reflective methodology used to set tariffs and 1 st respondent

approves the tariffs in accordance with the policy guidelines formulated

by the Cabinet of Ministers. He further submitted that the petitioner

failed to challenge tariff methodology under which the General Tariff and

Industrial Tariff Category is found and that the only instance the

petitioner sought the intervention of Public Utilities Commission to

resolve the dispute in terms of Sec. 39(1) of the SLEA is shown by P8.

The petitioner submitted that the Public Utilities Commission has

merely interpreted its own guidelines which is logically and legally within

their purview and has only clarified it and that no act has been done to

determine any right of the petitioner other than stating and identifying

what the parameters of its own classification, therefore in the absence of

a determination by the Public Utilities Commission a writ of certiorari can

not be enforced against the 1 st respondent and its members.

The respondents stated though the petitioner contends that his

business is a "cold chain logistics facility" and is an integral part of

certain manufacturing processes and therefore an 'Industrial Installation"

the 6th respondent and the 1 st to 4th respondents contended that the

6

petitioner is a 'warehouse' and is not part of any industrial or

manufacturing process.

The 6th respondent's preliminary objection to the instant case on

the ground that the certificate of incorporation was not annexed can not

stand as the petitioner has submitted the same with the counter

affidavits.

The main question this court has to decide in this application is

whether the petitioner's business falls within the definition provided in

Gazettes marked P2(a) and P2(c) of those activities falling within the

"Industrial tariff". This is a evident in document AS which after

considering facts states thus;

"According to the above schedule, the motor driven machinery

and the electrical equipment installed in the premises could be

categorized into two types (A and B) as shown below.

(A) Motive power used in the warehouse (given in the column A)

- 1308.38 Kw (Percentage of motive power = 90.18%)

(B)Non motive power used in the warehouse (given in the column

B) - 142.44 Kw (Percentage of motive power = 9.82%)

7

5.0 Executive summary of findings

5.1. Since there is no mechanized manufacturing process in the

premises and also, as per the item 3.2 given above the Finlay Cold

Storage (Private) Limited'; has to be considered as a warehouse.

5.2 According to the Extraordinary Gazette Notification of No.

1572/25 dated October, 24, 2008 on Tariffs and Charges under

Section 4 (copy attached), the General Purpose tariff applicable to

quote: "the rates GP1, GP2, and GP3 shall be applicable to a supply

of electricity to be used in shops, offices, banks, warehouses,

public buildings, hospitals, educational establishments, places of

entertainment and other premises not covered under any other

tariffs" unquote. Since, the Finlay Cold Storage (Pvt) Limited is a

warehouse the General Purpose tariff category is applicable.

6.0 Recommendations:

It is not recommended to change the existing General Purpose

tariff category obtained under AIC No. 0207151307 of Finlay Cold

Storage (Pvt) Limited. 309/7, Negombo Road, Welisara to Industrial

purpose tariff category since it is a warehouse.

This is a report from two experts on the issue.

8

Gazette notification 1572/25 dated 24/10/2008 describes

Industrial tariff as;

"This rate 1.1, 1.2 and 1.3 set out below shall be applicable to a

supply of electricity used wholly or mainly for motive power or

for electro-chemical process in factories, workshops, foundries,

oil mills, spinning and weaving mills, water supply and irrigation

pumping stations, port and dock installations and other similar

industrial installation but shall not be applicable to a supply of

electricity covered under Section 6 of this Schedule."

General tariff as;

liThe rates G.P.l, G.P.2 and G.P.3 set out below shall be applicable

to a supply of electricity to be used in shops, offices, banks,

warehouses, public buildings, hospitals, educational

establishments, places of entertainment and other premises not

covered under any other tariffs in this schedule".

Therefore it is evident that the petitioner's company is operating

as a warehouse and not as a manufacturing industry, the photographs

marked as X proves nothing in petitioner's favours. Though the

petitioner supplied cold storage to different producers the petitioner

9

does not produce any goods in the storage facility. Operating a cold

storage facility and the mere supply of cold storage to different suppliers

in different temperatures does not make the petitioner an Industrialist.

For the afore stated reasons there is no merit in the petitioner's

application to issue a writ of certiorari or Mandamus against the

respondents. The petitioner's application is dismissed with costs fixed at

Rs.50,000/=.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

10