==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Vs

K. K. Karunadasa

No.21, New Lane

Maitipe, Galle

Defendant-Appellant

Jinadasa Subasinghe

No.21/8, New Lane Maitipe, Galle

Deceased Plaintiff-Respondent

C.A.NO.1172/98 (F) D.C.GALLE CASE NO. 12773/L

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON

DECIDED ON

Dhanwathie Subasinghe (Also known as M.A. Dayawathie) No.21/8, New Lane Maitipe, Galle

And others Substituted-Plaintiff-Respondents

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J.

Priyantha Alagiyawanna for the Defendant-Appellant

Chandana Premathilake for the 1 st to 3rd Substituted Plaintiff- Respondents

25.07.2013, 14.11. 2013 and 05.05.2014

06.12.2013 by the Defendant-Appellant

02.12.2013 by the 1 st to 3rd Substituted-Plaintiff-Respondents

16TH JUNE 2014

1

CHITRASIRI, J.

This is an appeal preferred by the defendant-appellant seeking inter alia to

set aside the judgment dated 9 th January 1998 of the learned Additional District

Judge of Galle. In the petition of appeal, the appellant also has sought to have

the action of the plaintiff dismissed. The said action of the deceased plaintiff is

basically to have a decision securing his right of way or in other words his access

to the premises where he is in occupation.

Learned Counsel for the appellant contented that the plaintiff-respondent

has no right to file this action to have the respondent prevented from using the

roadway referred to as Lot 5 in Plan 424 marked PI, as he has no soil rights over

the said strip of land referred to as lot 5. Though, it was not raised as an issue in

the Court below, the appellant has every right to take up such an issue at this

appeal stage since it involves a pure question of law. [Talagala Vs. Gangodawila

Co-operative Store Society, (48 N. L. R. 472) Jayawickrema Vs. David Silva,

(76 N.L.R. at 427) Dassanayake Vs. Eastern Produce and Estates Co. Ltd.

1986 (1) S.L.R. at 258] Admittedly, the appellant has no soil rights over the

aforesaid Lot 5 which is being used as a roadway. Lot 5 is a sub division of Lot 8

of a larger land depicted in Plan 934A marked VI0. (at page 242 in the appeal

brief)

Lot 8 in the larger land shown in the Plan 934A had been owned by one

Kumarasinghe and he has sold it to various parties having sub divided the same,

as shown in plan marked PI. However, the said Kumarasinghe has retained with

him the soil rights of the said roadway referred to as lot 5 in Plan PI when he

2

disposed of some other lots depicted in that plan PI. Hence, the respondent has

only the right ,to use lot 5 in plan PI, as the access road to lot 4 where he is in

occupation.

Then the question arises whether the respondent has the right to file and

maintain this action to secure his right of way exercising his servitude and to

prevent others using the roadway referred to as lot 5 in plan marked PI to which

he has no soil rights. Law as to the actions available to secure servitudes could

be found in the authorities referred to herein below.

Hall and Kellaway on Servitudes 02nd Edition at p.135 & 136, states that -

"The actions recognized by Roman Dutch Law were the actio

confessoria and the actio negatoria or contra ria, the former being an

action to enforce a servitude, and the latter to declare a property free

from a servitude. The actio confessoria embraced (a) the removal of

all obstructions or replacement of anything destroyed, through

which the servitude is rendered useless (b) .... (c) .... (Voet, B.S.3).

The actio negatoria could be brought by an owner against anyone

claiming the right to exercise servitude over his property for the

purpose of ascertaining whether the servitude existed."

Massdorp's Institutes of South African Law Volume II page 177, states

that-

"The old actions were called the actio confessoria and actio negatoria

or contraria and the principles which governed them are still applied

3

tIf

to some extent, although the procedure has altered and at p.l 78

states that the general rule is that only a person in whose favour a

servitude has been created can enforce it, because servitudes are

indivisible in their nature. "

Wille citing Voet 8.5.5. has stated as follows:

"If a person unlawfully claims a servitude over land or claims greater rights

under a servitude than it actually comprises, the owner of the land may

bring an action against him, known as the action negatoria for a

declaration that his land is free from the servitude claimed, or free from the

excessive burdens as the case may be. This action can be instituted by

none but the owner of the land in question."

[Wille's Principles of South African Law - 8th Edition at page 326]

In the case of Saparamadu v. Melder, [2004 (3) S.L.R. at page 148]

having applied the law referred to above has held that an action for a

declaration that the defendant is not entitled to use the road reservation can be

filed only by a person who has soil rights and not by a person who himself

enjoys only a servitude." (at pg.lSl). Even in this same action, when the Court

of Appeal was invited to make a decision in respect of an interlocutory order

issued by the learned District Judge, Sarath.N.Silva, J (as he then was) held

thus:

"We have considered the submissions of learned counsel. We are inclined

to agree with the submissions of learned counsel for the petitioner that the

plaintiff being a person who is entitled only to the use of the right of way

4

(servitude) cannot injunct another person from the use of that right of way.

He can only injunct another person from obstructing or preventing

his use .. o/that right o/way.".

In the circumstances, it is clear that the actions to secure servitudes are

of two fold. They are actio negatoria and actio confessoria. Actio negatoria is

available to an owner of a land who has soil rights while actio confessoria is

available to a person holding a servitude without soil rights. Actio confessoria is

an action to enforce a servitude that can be instituted by a person in whose

favour a servitude has been created. Actio negatoria or contraria is an action to

declare a property free from a servitude which could only be filed by the owner

of a person who has soil rights.

In this instance, the respondent among other things also has sought to

have a declaration to secure his servitude, namely to use the roadway and to

have it free from obstructions. [items q) and qz in the prayer to the plaint] At the

same time he also has sought to prevent the respondent using the roadway.

[items qt, ~ O~ G in the prayer to the plaint]. Hence it is partly, an action known

as "actio confessoria" when it comes to the second and the third items in the

prayer to the plaint. As mentioned above, the respondent in this case is entitled

to maintain this action to secure his servitude so long as he is not seeking to

prevent others using the same. Therefore, he need not establish soil rights to

the land over which he claims a servitude to obtain the reliefs other than the

reliefs qt, ~ O~ G. Accordingly, I am not inclined to accept the contention of the

5

learned Counsel for the appellant as far as the second and the third reliefs of the

plaintiff is concerned.

Having discussed the issue as to the right of the respondent to file this

action, I will now turn to consider whether the learned Additional District Judge

is correct when he concluded the case against the appellant. Final outcome of

the findings of the learned trial judge is seen in the answer given to the issue

No.4.

The answer given to the said issue No.4 reads thus:

"Answer

[Vide proceedings at page 151 in the appeal briefl

Accordingly, it is clear that the decision that is being challenged in this

appeal depends on the manner in which the aforesaid answer given to issue No.4.

Hence, it is necessary to look at the reliefs prayed for in the plaint of the

respondent. Reliefs so prayed for, in the plaint read thus:

"(q) (i®G3 O~tD o@@ GO(i~Q)@€)(icl o~~o!if (i(O@ Ol®~@c)Ol o~ iVC)o gC))(3)

C)Oo!5) (i@O~

(q)) (i®G3 O~tD (i(C)o!5) GO(i~Q)@€)(icl o~~o!if ®)6m g(ia(3)C) ~t53 (i(O@O g8(Q

®)6m(icl SO (i~C)af ®)iVB(io (i(C)o!5) og®m (i~C)af ®)<3'B(io q~af og®m So

6

· -qC)G)Oct.I\.!if (iC»OC) oOG)Oa')C t.I\~®o qcSO)ccl qzO) Q)C)o gtl))a;)ccl tl)0a')

(Oa') tl)zQ)z(9(i(9 Q)cla'»)~o ®)CS(iS t.I\8~ q)tl))OCtl) 5C)occl O:>z~® (iG)J

(iC)a')o:f ~ q)tl))O BcC)ocl O:>z~® C)(9clC»)(9a') q)~C)cl tl)0a') (i(90~

(C§') 5o:fO)tl)o z qz~CS oo~ CO(io:f ~®tl)~ O)a') or® S9CS (i(a'»)® ~65 (i(C)a')

CO(i(9Q)~(id o~G).!if (i(O@.!if (ia')OO) ~~ o!5jog(9 G2clO)c oz®Sil@tl)ozo

(a) C§'G)O:> 17 C)a') (id«(id o~G).!if oO~ 1994 ®zcS ®o 09 C)a') ~a') So ®Otl)O

OzBc(9 500/- Q)z<33.!if q(9)(5) 5o:fO)tl)Oz(i(3).!if qCtl)O (i(a') (i(9o~

(c) OG)O:> (i(C)a') CO(i(9Q)~(id 500:>0 tl)0 qzO) ®)~(3) g(iE)a;)c CO(icJ<33

tl)0(i(3)a') 5o:fO)tl)oz(i(3j' C§'c:l®O OOC»)G)a') qz~CS t.I\~® (iG)J ~65 ®)~(3) 9(iE)a;)C

CO(icJG3 tl)0(i(3)a') 5o:fO)tl)oz(i(3j' gQ)a') ®)~(3)CO OOC»)G)a') (3)z~®~ ~65

0:>G)a')~ o!5j(icJ(3) ~.!if~®cl 5o:fO)tl)oz (iC)0:> o!5j~o:f tl)0a') (i(90~

(C')) (is q8tl)0~cO ~czcS 63o~c tl)0a') (iC)a')o:f OG) C)z~®a')cl OG)a') (iE) a')~

[Vide proceedings at pages 44 & 45 in the appeal brief].

Only the reliefs prayed for in the first five items in the prayer to the plaint

have been granted by the learned District Judge in favour of the respondent.

7

First relief mentioned therein is to have a judgment declaring that the respondent

is the owner of the land morefully described in the first schedule to the plaint. It

is the lot 4 in Plan marked Pl. Ownership of which is not being disputed by the

appellant. Appellant has no right or title to the said land occupied by the

respondent. Indeed, the parties at the commencement of the trial have admitted

that the aforesaid land referred to in the first schedule to the plaint which is lot 4

in plan 424 (PI) is owned by the respondent (admission No.2). [Vide proceedings

at page 73 in the appeal brief].

Second relief prayed for is to have a declaration declaring that the roadway

referred to in the second schedule to the plaint is a roadway commencing from

the main road leading to the property occupied by the respondent and it is his

exclusive and private access to reach lot 4 in Plan Pl. Appellant does not dispute

the said right of way claimed by the respondent. Neither has he challenged the

entitlement of the respondent using lot 5 as the access road to the respondent's

land referred to in the first schedule to the plaint which commences from the

main road.

Next relief is to have a declaration allowing the respondent to use the

aforesaid roadway without any obstruction being made. It is connected to the

second relief as well. The appellant has no objection for the use of the said right

of way by the respondent. Evidence also reveals that the respondent has the right

to use the said roadway without any obstruction being made by the appellant.

Therefore, it is clear that the appellant cannot obstruct the said roadway being

used by the respondent.

8

Therefore, I do not see any wrong in granting the reliefs prayed for in the

first three items in the prayer to the plaint, namely prayers q, q) and qz, in favour

of the respondent. Indeed, the appellant is not affected by granting those reliefs

referred to in the first three items in the prayer to the plaint. In the

circumstances, I do not see any error in the decision of the learned Additional

District Judge, granting relief in favour of the respondent as prayed for in the first

three items found in the prayer to the plaint.

Remaining two reliefs that have been granted in favour of the respondent

are the reliefs "ql" and "cg>". Relief "qt" in the prayer to the plaint is to prevent the

appellant having an opening on the western boundary of Lot No.5 whilst the relief

"cg>" mentioned therein is to have the appellant evicted from lot 5 in Plan marked

PI. Clearly, those two reliefs are to obtain a declaration securing the property

rights of the respondent preventing others enjoying servitudes over the roadway

referred to as lot 5 mentioned above.

As mentioned hereinbefore in this judgment, reliefs referred to in the

preceding paragraph could only be obtained by filing an action known as Actio

negatoria or contraria. Such an action is available to a person who has soil rights

over the land he holds a servitude. Admittedly, the respondent has no soil rights

to the land over which he has a servitude which is the road way referred to as lot

5 in Plan marked PI. Soil rights of the said lot 5 is with Kumarasinghe at the

time the action was instituted. Therefore, the plaintiff-respondent has no legal

9

•

right to file action seeking to prevent the defendant-appellant performing any act

on the land over which the respondent claims that he enjoys a servitude. Hence, - .. --. . ~-

the respondent is not entitled to file action to obtain the reliefs prayed for in the

items "q{ and "~" referred to in the prayer to the plaint.

In the circumstances, it is my OpInIOn that the learned District Judge

misdirected himself as to the law when he granted the reliefs prayed for in the

prayers "q{ and "C§''' to the plaint. For the aforesaid reasons, the judgment dated

9th January 1998 is varied to read it as; the plaintiff is entitled only to the reliefs

prayed for in paragraphs "q", "q)" , and "qz" in the prayer to the plaint and is not

entitled to the rest of the reliefs prayed for in the plaint.

Subject to the above variations, this appeal is dismissed. Parties are to bear

their own costs of this appeal. Having considered the circumstances of the case,

the order made by the learned District Judge as to the costs of the action is set

aside. Accordingly, the plaintiff-respondent is not entitled to the costs of the

action filed in the District Court.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

10