==== BLOCKS ==== 

7

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A.No.930/98 F C.A.No.939/98 F

01. Ruby Jayasinghe 02. Mala Priyadarshini De Silva No. 42A, 1st Cross Street, Borupane Road, Ratmalana.

DEFENDANT APPELLANTS Vs.

J.N. Jayamanna No. 42A, 1st Cross Street, Borupana Road, Rathmalana. And presently residing C/O Suraweera Jayamanna, Mahyala Junction, Malwala, Via Ratnapura.

PLAINTIFF - RESPONDENT

.'

C.A.No.930/98 F

C.A.No.939/98 F

BEFORE

COUNSEL

DECIDED ON

K. T. CHITRASIRI, J.

D.C.Mt.Lavinia Case No.444/95L

D.C.Mt.Lavinia Case No.446/95L

K. T. CHITRASIRI, J.

Laksiri Hewage for the Defendant-Appellants in both appeals [C.A.No.930/98 (F) and C.A.939/98 (F)]

Vijaya Neranjan Perera with Jeevani Perera for the Plaintiff-Respondent in both the appeals

1 ph December, 2013

These two appeals have been filed seeking to set aside the judgment of the

learned District Judge of Mt.Lavinia delivered on 3rd March 1998. It is a

judgment pertaining to both the cases bearing Nos.444/95 Land 446/95 L filed

in the District Court of Mt.Lavinia. Therefore, these two appeals have been filed

in respect of those two cases though only one judgment had been delivered in

both the cases. The reason to have one judgment for both cases is reflected at

pages 49 and 50 of the appeal brief.

When the two appeals were taken up today, the learned Counsel for the

appellants referring to the motion dated 06.12.2013 moved to have the argument

re-ftxed for another date. Learned Counsel for the respondent vehemently

1

\ I .'

objected for a date being given and then he submitted that no acceptable reason

has been mentioned for a postponement in the motion filed by the appellants.

The reason to have another date is that the date of argument already been fIxed

is not suitable for the Counsel. Counsel for the respondent further submitted

that merely because the date is not suitable, it should not be regarded as a

ground to have a postponement since this date was given to suit the Counsel

when the matter was mentioned on the last occasion. Against this background, I

will consider whether it is appropriate to grant another date as moved by the

learned Counsel for the appellants.

Having perused the journal entries recorded on the previous occasions, it

is found that number of dates of argument had been postponed on applications

of the Counsel who appeared for the appellants. Even on 2.9.2013, when the

matter was taken up, once again it has been postponed on an application made

by the registered attorney of the appellants enabling him to revoke his proxy.

On that date the argument was re-fIxed for 22.11.2013. On this particular day,

no one appeared for the appellants neither were they present in Court

personally. Accordingly, the Court could have taken up the argument on

22.11.2013 itself. However, since no one was present in Court on that date on

behalf of the appellants, Court made order to issue notice on the appellants as

well as to their registered attorney and the matter was then re-fIxed for

argument. The aforesaid circumstances also may amount to have evaded the

date of argument by the appellants. It has caused inconvenience and

2

\

i J "

J unnecessary expenses as well to the Respondent. Under those circumstances, I

am not inclined to grant a date for a postponement.

Accordingly, Counsel for the appellants is directed to make submissions in

support of these two appeals. He then submitted that he has only limited

instructions to move for a date. He therefore is not making any submissions in

support of the two appeals. Accordingly, the Counsel for the respondent was

heard in this regard.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the judgment dated 3rd July

1998. By that judgment both the cases bearing Nos.444/95L and

446/95 L filed in the District Court of Mount Lavinia were decided in

favour of the plaintiff-respondent. As a result the relief prayed for in the

prayer to the two plaints was granted in favour of the plaintiff-

respondents.

The plaintiff basically sought to have a declaration declaring that

the premises referred to in the two schedules found in the two cases are

being held in trust for him by the two defendants. Admittedly, the two

premises are in the names of the two defendants. Having considered the

evidence learned District Judge decided that the defendants are holding

the property in trust for the plaintiff.

Then the issue is to ascertain whether the learned District Judge

was correct when he decided that the properties In suit

are being held by the appellants in trust for the plaintiff-respondent.

3

iI!! IIII!

t I! I

I ,

Section 83 of the Trust Ordinance stipulates the manner in which

a constructive trust is determined. Basically it is on the basis of the

attendant circumstances of each and every case, it is being decided. In

this instance, clear evidence is found to show that the money that was

used to purchase the properties in suit in both cases have been given by

the respondent making use of the money that he has earned from his

employment abroad. This fact had been admitted by the two appellants

as well while they were giving evidence. This issue had been carefully

considered by the learned District Judge. The relevant portion in the

judgment in this connection is as follows:-

~.!5)C)® q(l(9 cg>e:Je ®(9cC) CiG).!5) qz6) Q)atD, ~® cg>e:Je ®(9C)C) G)z~Cie~

Ciao!i)tD ~8® CitDCi.!5)~Ci<35 @~(9cl CiC))~a) 6)el.!5) Q)atD, ~ q~a ~® ~e:Je

(vide proceedings at page 250 of the appeal brief.)

4

,

l I

I

f ,

I

\ I ,

In the circumstances, it is my considered VIew that the learned

District Judge has evaluated the attendant circumstances involved In

this case in the proper manner and has come to the correct decision.

Moreover, the best person to determine the issues in relation to the

facts of the case is the trial judge who hears and sees the witnesses.

This proposition in law was upheld in the cases including that of:

• De Silva and others v. Seneviratne and another [1981 (2) SLR 8J • Fradd v. Brown & Co. Ltd. [20 NLR at page 282J • D.S.Mahawithana v. Commissioner of Inland Revenue [64 NLR 217] • S.D.M.Farook v. L.B.Finance [C.A.44198, C.A.Minutes of 15.3.2013J • W.M.Gunatillake vs. M.M.S.Puspakumara [C.A.151198 C.A.Minutes of 9.5.2013J In Alwis v. Piyasena Fernando [1993 (1) SLR at page 119], His

Lordship G.P.S.de Silva, J held thus:

"It is well established that findings of primary facts by a trial Judge who hears and sees the witnesses are not to be lightly disturbed on appeal".

In keeping with the authorities referred to above, I do not wish to

interfere with the decision of the learned District Judge since the issue in

this instance involves a pure question of fact.

In the petition of appeal the appellants have also taken up the

position that the cause of action of the respondent has been prescribed.

Learned District Judge has answered this issue of prescription in favour

5 It I

\

J j j

"

of the respondent. In this regard I wish to refer to the matters contained

in Section 14 of the Trust Ordinance.

Section 14 of the Trust Ordinance stipulates that:

"the Trustee must not for himself or another set up or aid

any title to the trust property adverse to the interests of the beneficiary".

This particular Section gives the protection for the beneficiaries to

protect their rights to the trust property against the claims made by the

trustees to that trust property. Therefore, the rights given to the

respondent in terms of the aforesaid Section 14 should be decided

despite the defence of prescription raised by the appellants. Even under

Section 111(1), it specifically precludes taking up the cover of

prescription when a claim to recover a trust property is made against the

trustees.

Furthermore, In the case of Daniel Appuhamy v. Arnolis Appu,

[30 N.L.R. at 247] it was held thus:

"As regards the question of prescription, I think that a cause

of action in a case like the present does not arise until the person in the position of the defendant, definitely declines to

do what is requested of him, when so requested, or, until it comes to the knowledge of the plaintiff that the defendant has taken a definite step which can only indicate that he regards himself as the absolute owner".

6

\ ! ,

1 I I i I 1 l i 'i

j

\

1

J 1

The law referred to above would preclude a defendant taking up

the defence of prescription in the cases where the beneficiaries making

claims against the trustees in respect of trust properties. Therefore, the

prescriptive claim of the appellants made in this instance also fails.

For the aforesaid reasons both the appeals are dismissed with

costs fixed at Rs. 75,000 / =.

Appeals dismissed

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Kwk/=

7

r\II

I,!

t