==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA 10/98 (F) DC Kuliyapitiya 7176/P

Jayakodi Arachchige Don Pedri Reginold Meril Thabakandawa, Sadalankawa.

Defendant – Appellant Vs. Subasingha Mudiyanselage Premachandra Subasinghe Sandalankawa. And others

Plaintiff - Respondents

C.A. No. 10/98(F) D.C. Kuliyapitiya Case No. 71761P

Before

Counsel

Argued & Decided on

Anil Gooneratne, J.

Chula Bandara for the 1 st and 3rd Defendant-Appellant.

S,N. Vijithsingh with C. Liyanage for the Plaintiff-Respondents.

03.08.2012.

*********

Anil Goonerathne, J.

1

Vide journal entry of 27.07.2012, this Court directed

Counsel on either side to have a consent motion filed of record and

accordingly motion (03.08.2012) is presented to Court today. This is a

case where several parties lA, 3A and 4th defendant-respondent expired

pending the judgment in the District Court. No substitution have been

effected in the District Court. As such the judgment of the learned

District Judge becomes defective. However by this motion of August

2012 parties have agreed that in view of the legal provisions and the

judgment being defective, to have the record sent back to District

Court, in view of the fact that the judgment delivered by the learned

District Judge is a nullity. By this motion names of parties to be

, 2

substituted are mentioned and all parties have signed, namely 3A

Defendant-Appellant, lA Plaintiff-Respondent, 2nd Plaintiff-Respondent,

2A Defendant-Respondent and 4A Defendant-Respondent.

In VIew of the motion filed of record (August 2012) I

direct the Registrar of this Court to return the original brief to the

Registrar of the respective District Court. I also declare that the

judgment of the original court is a nullity. Learned District Judge is

directed to Endeavour to expedite proceedings in the District Court

since the parties have now agreed on the allocation of shares. Parties

have endeavored to settle this matter and also have agreed to have

the shares allocated in the manner described in the motion of August

2012.

Proceedings terminated.

Registrar is directed to have the proper date entered III

the motion filed of record.

CiJ..;Y Gcud

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

AKN