==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 152 I 2000 F

D.C. Kandy No. 11892 I X

Mohamed Muhutar Sitti Rahuma Beebi,

29 I 2, Gonawala Road,

Digana, Rajawella.

Plaintiff

Vs.

Mohomed Mustapha Mohamed Raseen,

29 I 2, Gonawala Road,

Digana, Rajawella

Defendant

AND NOW BETWEEN

Mohamed Muhutar Sitti Rahuma Beebi,

29 I 2, Gonawala Road,

Digana, Rajawella.

Plaintiff Appellant

Vs

D.C. Kandy No. 11892 I X

29 I 2, Gonawala Road,

Digana, Rajawella

Defendant Respondent

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

Plaintiff Appellant is absent and unrepresented.

Shamir Zavahir with Murshid Maharoof for the Defendant Respondent

02.03.2012

15.03.2013

The Plaintiff Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant) has

instituted the said action against the Defendant Respondent (hereinafter referred to

as the Respondent) to recover a sum ofRs 80,000/- per month from October 1994.

She has averred that she was a partner of the partnership business called "Dumbara

Fertilizer" and the Respondent has failed to pay the Appellant's share of the

partnership profit at the rate of Rs. 80.000/- per month. The Respondent took up

the position that there was no written partnership agreement and in terms of

Section 18 of the Prevention of Frauds Ordinance the Appellant could not maintain

the action.

After trial the learned Additional District Judge has dismissed the

Appellant's action with costs by a judgment delivered on 25.02.2000. Being

aggrieved by the said judgment the Appellant has appealed to this Court.

At the trial the Appellant did not produce a partnership agreement.

Hence I now consider whether the Appellant can maintain this action in view of

3

the provisions contained in Section 18 of the Prevention of Frauds Ordinance

which stipulates as follows;

18. No promise, contract, bargain, or agreement, unless it be in writing and

signed by the party making the same, or by some person thereto lawfully

authorized by him or her, shall be of force or avail in law for any of the

following purposes : -

a. for charging any person with the debt, default, or miscarriage of another ;

b. for pledging movable property, unless the same shall have been actually

delivered to the person to whom it is alleged to have been pledged ;

c. for establishing a partnership where the capital exceeds one thousand

rupees : Provided that this shall not be construed to prevent third parties

from suing partners, or persons acting as such, and offering in evidence

circumstances to prove a partnership existing between such persons, or to

exclude parol testimony concerning transactions by or the settlement of

any account between partners.

In the case of Rajaratnam Vs the Commissioner of Stamps 39 NLR

481 it was held that "the partnership could not be established in the absence of a

written agreement."

In the case of Sivakumaran Vs Rajasegaram 63 NLR 556 it was held

that "the evidence led in the case established that the business was a de facto

partnership and not a co-ownership, although the shares of the plaintiff and

defendant were unequal in the proportion of two-thirds and one-third respectively.

The rights of the plaintiff and defendant in the business, derived though they were

from the father, were the result of the creation of the de facto partnership and not

something independent of it. In the circumstances, since there was no agreement in

4

writing as required by section 18 (c) of the Prevention of Frauds Ordinance, the

present action was not maintainable."

When I come back to the present case it was common ground that

there had been no partnership agreement in writing. If so the law is very clear that

in such a situation the Appellant cannot have and maintain an action in relation to

the partnership business called 'Dumbara Fertilizers' without a written agreement.

It seems that the learned Additional District Judge has dismissed the Appellant's

action on the said basis. Hence I find no reason to interfere with the said judgment

of the learned Additional District Judge delivered on 25.02.2000. Therefore I

dismiss the instant appeal of the Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal