==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 273/2007 (Writ)

Sri Lankan Airlines Limited

Level 22, East Tower,

World Trade Centre,

Echelon Square, Colombo 1.

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. Han. Gamini Lokuge M.P.,

Minister of Labour Relations & Productivity

Improvement

Ministry of Labour Relations & Productivity

Improvement

2nd Floor, Labour Secretariat

Colombo 5.

2. Mr. D. Somaweera Edirisinghe

Commissioner General of Labour

Labour Secretariat

Colombo 5.

3. Mr. Mahinda Madihahewa,

Secretary,

Ministry of Labour Relations & Manpower

and former Commissioner General of

Labour

2nd Floor, Labour Secretariat

Colombo 5.

4. Mr. V. Vimalarajah

153/1, Kirulapone Avenue,

Colombo 5.

1

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

Respondent

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERATNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J. &

H. N.J. Perera J.

5. Mr. T. Raveendran

No. 151/1, Collingwood Place,

Colombo 6.

RESPONDENTS

Sanjeeva Jayawardena P.C., with Senani Dayaratne

For the Petitioner

M.A. Sumanthiran with Ms.E. Tegal & S. Arulanantham for 5th

Arjuna Obeysekera D.S.G., for 1

5\ 2nd & 3rd Respondents

20.02.2013 & 21.02.2013

28.03.2012

2

Mandates in the nature of Writs of Certiorari and Mandamus are

sought by the Petitioner Company namely Sri Lankan Airlines Limited~ to quash

the arbitration award marked P17 & P17(a) (as in sub paragraphs b1 c & d of the

prayer to the petition) and as in sub paragraphs (e) & (f) of the prayer t" the

petition for a Writ of Mandamus respectively.

3

The facts are set out in the affidavit filed in this court by the Senior

Manager- Human Resources of the Petitioner Company. The sth Respondent was

an employee of the Petitioner Company who joined the organization in June 1991

and whose services were terminated on or about 26.3.1999. As at the date of

termination sth Respondent was an Air Craft Technician. It was submitted to this

court by learned President's Counsel for the Petitioner that the nature of work

entrusted to the 5th Respondent is constant and highly sensitive which gives

access to aircraft, at all important time intervals. By an internal memo marked P2

information was received that the sth Respondent was arrested on 23.3.1999 by

the Terrorist Investigation Unit of the Sri Lanka Police, on suspicion of having

close links, with members of the Liberation of Tigers of Tamil Elem {LTIE). Letter

P3 sent by the Terrorist Investigation Unit of the police gives details of arres(. and

the connection sth Respondent had with the above terrorist organization and

remanding him to fiscal custody. Documents P4, PS & P6 relate to interdiction,

recommendation to terminate services and termination of services of the sth

Respondent respectively.

Thereafter the Petitioner Company, was by letter marked P7a & P7b

{by Attorney at Law and 5th Respondent) informed of the 5th Respondent being

discharged by the Magistrate on 1.12.1999. By P7b Petitioner had sought

reinstatement in the company. The letter P7a is self explanatory of the sth

Respondent's position in the process of requesting for reinstatement. The learned

President's Counsel for Petitioner drew the attention of this court to documents

P9 & P10. Learned President's Counsel for Petitioner very correctly and in the

spirit of a learned counsel, assisted court by disclosing all the relevant facts which

may be favourable to the sth Respondent, who in law could not be held liable or

4

responsible for any criminal prosecution under the Prevention of Terrorist Act or

the relevant Emergency Regulations in view of the decision made by the Hon.

Attorney General, not to prosecute in terms of the said laws. However

notwithstanding above it was the contention of learned President's Counsel for

the Petitioner Company that the relationship of employer and employee is not

and cannot be dependent on a mere discharge or exoneration of charges

preferred against its employee the sth Respondent. He added that the Arbitrator

(4th Respondent) has erred in law in his order, in ordering reinstatement of the sth

Respondent and in lieu of reinstatement the order should be made for payment

of reasonable compensation. The law mandates the award of compensation in

lieu of reinstatement when the circumstances so warrants.

In making submissions to this court by learned President's Counsel

for Petitioner, emphasized the importance of the Petitioner Company as the

National Carrier where people of all walks of life are dependent in the Petitioner

Company to travel overseas and the sensitive nature and the safety that had to be

ensured to the public and country in the performance of functions and duties of

the Petitioner Company as a national carrier. In the context of the case in hand

and in the circumstances of this case reinstatement cannot be awarded in law, as

the case itself is different to the other normal cases where reinstatement could

have been granted? This court has taken serious note of the above submissions of

learned President's Counsel for Petitioner and see no basis to disagree or retract

from the views expressed on behalf of the Petitioner Company. As such the

Petitioner Company need to very seriously consider the reports P3 & PlO issued

by the Director, Terrorists, Intelligence Division, which pin point and pose material

to demonstrate a security threat.

5

The learned counsel for the sth Respondent in reply to the above

submissions was not averse to the legal position of awarding compensation in lieu

of reinstatement. Nevertheless learned counsel sought to draw a comparison

with other cases filed under the Prevention of Terrorism Act when suspects are

held in detention for fairly long period of time and in the case in hand the sth

Respondent had been discharged and released within a short period of time (less

than 6 months). The learned counsel for sth Respondent also drew the attention

of this court that his client had been unemployed since termination of his services

for a period of over 14 years. On this basis learned counsel sought to impress that

the early or quick release from custody would indicate that no adverse inference

against the sth Respondent could be drawn, and as such sth Respondent should

not be labeled or considered to be involved in any activity of the above

organization.

In the course of arguments the learned Deputy Solicitor General

indicated to this court that he has no role to play in this case since the Petitioner

had not insisted on the relief sought in subparagraph (F) of the prayer to the

Petition (refer the matter for Arbitration afresh).

The Petitioner Company maintains that the termination of the sth

Respondent is justified in the circumstances of the case and draw the attention of

this court to the contents of documents P3 & PlO which indicate that the sth

Respondent should be perceived as a security threat, notwithstanding the failure

on the part of the Government machinery to prosecute him. The justification to

terminate the services of the sth Respondent is morefully described in paragraphs

8(k) & 9, 10 of the petition and the corresponding paragraphs of the affidavit.

However the Petitioner company was informed of an industrial dispute on or

6

about 15.9.2000 and the matter was referred for Arbitration. The statement of

the matter in dispute reads thus according to document lO(b)

((Whether the termination of the services of Mr. T.Raveendran who was in

employed at Sri Lankan Airlines by the said Company is justified and if not,

to which relief is he entitled."

The Arbitrator who inquired into the matter died and the matte was

referred for fresh arbitration on the same matter in dispute as above. Paragraph

32 of the Petition indicate that the 4th Respondent was appointed Arbitrator and

parties had agreed to adopt the proceedings before the earlier Arbitrator and

consented for the 4th Respondent to make his award. The award made by the 4th

Respondent, are produced P17 & P17a. According to the Petitioner the gist of the

award is as follows:

(i) Be re-instated with effect from 26.3.2007 with four years back wages (Rs. 26,8?..5/- x

48) amounting toRs. 1,287,600/-;

(ii) The period out of employment (26.03.1999 to 26.03.2007) being treated as

continuous and uninterrupted for purposes of seniority, promotions, gratuity and

other employment related benefits;

(iii) Be placed on the appropriate point of scale as if he had remained in employment

continuously and without interruption from 26.3.1999 onwards.

The grounds of review are particularly contained in paragraph 46 of the

petition and inter alia emphasis as referred to above is the contents of paragraph

46L i.e law mandates the award of compensation in lieu of reinstatement when

the circumstances so warrant it. I would attempt to briefly refer only to the

salient points in the award P17 as follows:

7

(a) The award refer to the evidence of the Petitioner Company in relation to

termination and the sth Respondent's evidence, which support illegal

termination. On the letter of 14.6.1999 (R6 & PS), the Arbitrator states and

that the reasons for termination are far from satisfactory ana not

acceptable. The reasons being as in R6 i.e taking into custody, producing

before a Magistrate and remanding. Arbitrator holds that termination of 5th

Respondent for reasons stated in the said letter is unjust unfair and

unreasonable.

Perusal of R6 very plainly state that annexed is a report from

Director, Terrorist Investigation Division an involvement of 5th Respondent

in L TIE activities.

This court observes that there is also the fact that the sth Respondent

is a security threat. This is an internal memo. One cannot expect a full

disclosure of facts other than representing L TIE involvement and security

threat in the given circumstances and the period in which the authorities

took the sth Respondent into custody. Further this is only an internal memo

and only correspondence between officials of the Petitioner Company.

Arbitrator has erred in his conclusions by stating that the reasons stated in

letter (PS & P6) is unjust. The Company obviously had to consider the

annexed report and take steps accordingly. Petitioner Company is certainly

not equipped or required to ascertain information provided by the Terrorist

Investigation Unit. Company would be entirely dependent on such

information to take the required steps based on confidential information of

a highly sensitive nature.

(b) Award point out that the evidence offered by the Petitioner Company was

weak and inadequate to establish allegations against the sth Respondent.

The learned Arbitrator states that 5th Respondent's employment

terminated without; calling for explanation, a charge sheet being served

and an independent investigation. Evidence of the Petitioner Company as

stated by the learned Arbitrator does not reveal any involvement or

complaint of the sth Respondent during his period of service. No adverse

report against 5th Respondent by the Petitioner Company.

8

This court would not on the above matters fault or interfere with the

learned Arbitrator's views on same. However the peculiar nature of this

case is such that even if termination of the employee could be held to be

unlawful it is certainly a case where reinstatement cannot possibly ordered

when the matter concerns a national security threat. I agree with the views

of the learned President's Counsel for the Petitioner that the Petitioner

Company cannot have the capacity or expertise or authority to inquire into

a matter of this nature, and cannot conduct an independent inquirv. As

such need to be totally dependent in the material furnished by the

Government machinery on investigating terrorist activity.

(c) In the analysis of evidence the learned Arbitrator having observed that the

evidence of the Petitioner Company is weak and inadequate to establish a

serious allegation, and support the position of the sth Respondent

employee, to demonstrate his non-involvement with subversive activities.

The learned Arbitrator seems to rely heavily on the discharge procedure of

the sth Respondent and or his non-prosecution in criminal proceedings to

express his views on unjustifiable termination of employment.

This court cannot endorse the views of the learned Arbitrator in so

far as granting relief to reinstate the sth Respondent. Reasons to conclude in this

way as observed above would as a matter of law be demcnstrated by reference

to case law.

The award of the learned Arbitrator ha~ r·eferred to the following

case law to support the view when reinstatement awardable. as follows:

9

Bank of India Ltd Vs. LAT 1955 (2) LU 214 (cal) deals with the powers in regard to re-

instatement. Held -

"The normal rule should be re-instatement. The past record of the employee the nature

of the alleged, present lapse and the grounds on which the order of the managen,cnt is

set aside are also relevant factors for consideration:

In the case of workman employed in Ennore Foundries Ltd. Vs. Manager of Ennore-

Foundries Ltd. 1970 (2) LU 222 and 227 Held-

"The normal relief in cases of unjustified dismissal is re-instatement and compensation

in lieu is awarded only in special or exceptional circumstances"

In Brooke Bond (Ceylon) Ltd. Vs. Tea Rubber Coconut and General Produce Workers'

Union (1974) 77 NLR 6.

Held - "A workman's past record is relevant to the issue of re-instatement anr' may

result in an order for compensation even where termination is unjustified.

No doubt the normal relief in case of unjustified termination is

reinstatement. Compensation is granted in exceptional and special cases. This

court take the view without any reservation that this case is a exceptional and a

special case which is directly connected with terrorist activities, notwithstanding

the discharge of the 5th Respondent from criminal prosecution. All this took place

during the worst era of this country. As such I have no hesitation in puttint> this

case to the category of exceptional case, with a pl'imary security concern of the

country, and has to be distinguished from the above cases cited in the award. Nor

can I support the views of the learned Arbitrator who re'y on another case (FR

case No. 54/95). The above case was a case involv,~g 2 Clerk attached to the

Telecommunication Department who had been arrested for subversive activities. I

10

reject the learned Arbitrators comparison with the above case which link the

LITE. The case in hand falls into a category of a very high degree of national

security, which could, if not correctly decided be disastrous to the country as a

whole inclusive of the national carrier.

I wish to fortify my views with the judgment of the Supreme Court in

Jayasuriya Vs. Sri Lanka Plantations Corporation 199.5 {2) SLR 379. It is a case

where due consideration is given to circumstances when compensation rather

than reinstatement will be awarded for wrongful termination.

It was held inter alia as stated in the head note.

Even where the dismissal is unlawful, reinstatement will not invariably be

ordered where it is not expedient or where there are unusual features. In such event an

award of compensation instead of reinstatement will rneet the ends of justice.

Considering the petitioner's uneasy relationship with the Trade Unions and the

likelihood of industrial strife if he is reinstated and the fact that the employer had

alleged a lack of confidence in the petitioner, compen5ation rather than reinstatement

would be the appropriate remedy.

Justice Dr. Amarasinghe at pg. 405 referring to the judgment of a

case where dismissal was wrongful and it may be ordered that Petitioner be

reinstated as observed by Sharvananda J. in Caledonan Estates Vs. Hillman {Supra)

at P. 435, see also per Silva Supramaniam J. in United Industrial Local Government

& General Workers Union Vs. Independent Newspapers Ltd. {1) {1992) 75 NLR

529, 531, that remedy is "not absolute or of universal application. There can be

cases where it might not be expedient ...

Having considered all the facts and circumstances of this case, we are

of the view that the award in so far as it relates to reinstatement of t~ ~ 5th

Respondent need to be quashed by way of a Writ of Certiorari. The Arbitrator

11

must give his mind to the question of determining compensation after weighing

the evidence and probabilities of the case. That is best left in the hands of the

learned Arbitrator. As such we grant the remedy prayed for in sub paragraph (e)

of the prayer to the petition without costs

Application allowed in terms of prayer (e).

~y&l'J~

\_--d/o~E OF ~F APPEAL

H. N.J. Perera J.

I agree.