==== BLOCKS ==== 

C.A 112/2011

High Court Galle Case

No: 2942/07

Before

Counsel

Argued & decided on

Sisira. J. de Abrew J.

1

T.Muththusamy,

Vs.

The Attorney General,

Sisira. J. de Abrew J. & P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J.

Suranga Bandara for the Accused- Appellant.

Chethiya Gunasekeara SSC for the

Attorney-General.

29.05.2013.

The Accused-Appellant produced by the Prison Authorities is

present in court.

2

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases. The

accused-appellant in this case was convicted for raping a

woman named Karunawathie and for the robbery of gold

chain from the possession of said Karunawathie which is an

offence punishable under section 380 of the Penal Code.

The learned trial Judge sentenced the accused-appellant,

on the charge of rape, to a term of 12 years rigorous

imprisonment, to pay a fine of Rs. 7500/- carrying a default

sentence of 12 months simple imprisonment and to pay

sum of Rs. 100,000/-to the victim as compensation

carrying a default sentence of 24 months simple

imprisonment. On the second count ( the charge of

robbery ) he was sentenced to a term of 18 months

ngorous imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs.SOOO/-

carrying a default sentence of 6 months simple

imprisonment. Being aggrieved by the said convictions and

the sentences the accused-appellant has appealed to this

court. Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as

follows:-

3

On 31.05.2004 around 7.30 p.m. Karunawathie after

getting down from a bus was walking to her daughter's

place. On the way a person without clothes appeared in

front of her, drag her to nearby jungle and committed

sexual intercourse on her. This person snatched her gold

chain too. According to Karunawathie this was done without

her consent. After the sexual act, she without going to her

daughter's place, ran back to the junction where there was

a boutique. She immediately complained to the inmates of

the boutique and on the instructions of the boutique owner

one Padmasiri who was working in the boutique went with

her to the daughter's house. She complained the incident to

the mother-in-law of the daughter and after taking a wash

she with her son-in-law, mother-in-law of the daughter and

Padmasiri set off for the police station. On the way

Padmasiri and the others knocked on the door of a house

which was close to the place of incident in order to find out

whether anybody was in the vicinity. When a person from

this house opened the door she immediately identified the

person as the person who committed the act of sexual

4

intercourse and snatched her gold chain. The fact that she

identified this person ( the accused-appellant ) as the

person who committed the act of rape and snatched the gold

chain was corroborated by the evidence of Padmasiri and

Somawathie who is the mother -in-law of the daughter of

the victim. It is therefore seen that at the very first

opportunity she identified the accused-appellant as the

person who committed this crime. According to her

evidence, she, on previous occasions, had seen this person

when she came to her daughter's place but she was

unaware of the name of the accused -appellant. Learned

counsel for the accused -appellant contended that the

identity of the accused-appellant has not been established

beyond reasonable doubt by the prosecution. I now advert

to this contention. It is in evidence that Karunawathie

identified the accused-appellant at the very first opportunity

as the person who snatched the gold chain and committed

sexual intercourse. When she came back to the accused

house with the police officers she again identified the

accused-appellant. She, on previous occasions had seen

5

the accused -appellant. When I consider all these matters,

I am of the opinion the identity of the accused-appellant

has been established beyond reasonable doubt. I therefore

reject the submission of the learned counsel for the accused-

appellant.

Learned counsel next contended that the evidence of the

accused appellant has not been properly evaluated by the

learned trial Judge. The accused appellant who gave

evidence under oath admitted that, on 31.05.2004,

Karunawathie, and the others came to his house.

According to the evidence of the accused-appellant, when

Karunawathie and others came to his house, Karunawathie

pointing out the accused-appellant had said that the person

who committed the crime was a person like him. But

Karunawathie denying this position stated that she pointed

out the accused - appellant as the person who raped her.

Somawathie and Padmasiri corroborate the evidence of

Karunawathie on this point. The learned trial Judge after

considering the evidence led by both sides, came to the

• 6

conclusion that the accused -appellant's evidence on this

matter cannot be accepted. The learned trial Judge has

rejected the evidence of the accused-appellant. I have gone

through the evidence led at the trial. I see no reason to

find fault with the conclusion reached by the learned trial

Judge in rejecting the accused-appellant's evidence. For the

above reasons, I am unable to agree with the submissions of

the learned counsel for the accused-appellant.

To prove a charge of rape the prosecution must prove

the following matters beyond reasonable doubt.

( 1) Sexual intercourse was committed on the woman.

(2)It was committed without her consent or against her

will.

(3)It was committed by the accused-appellant.

The doctor, who examined the victim four days after the

incident, has found a laceration in the victim's vagina.

According to the doctor the wound was red in colour. He

expressed the opinion that there was recent vaginal

penetration. Karunawathie has said that the accused -

• 7

appellant committed the act of sexual intercourse on her.

She has, soon after the incident, identified the accused -

appellant. Karunawathie in her evidence has said that

sexual intercourse was committed against her will and

without her consent. When I consider all these matters I

hold the view that the prosecution has proved all three

ingredients set-out above beyond reasonable doubt.

I therefore see no reason to interfere with the learned trial

Judge's judgment. For the above reasons, I affirm the

convictions and the sentences and dismiss the appeal. I

direct the prison authorities to implement the sentence from

the date of this judgment.

Appeal dismissed.

P.W.D.C Javathilaka. I agree.

Vkg/-

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL