==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE OURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA 216/2014 HC Gampaha 80/09

M.S. Guneratne Nittabuwa

Appellant Vs. Hon. Attorney General Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

I

•• • I

\

I \ I 1 I I

I ! ;

CA 216/2014 HC Gampaha 80/09

BEFORE H.N.J. Perera, J. &

K.K. Wickramasinghe, J.

COUNSEL Manoja Gunawardena for the accused-appellant.

Shavindra Fernando PC, ASG for the AG.

DECIDED ON: 06.10.2015

H.N.J. PERERA, J.

Accused-appellant IS present In Court produced by the Prison

Authorities.

Counsel for the accused-appellant submits to Court that he would

confine this appeal only to the sentence imposed by the learned High

Court Judge on the accused-appellant and submits that the deceased

is the father of the accused-appellant. He has been convicted for

committing an offence punishable under Section 297 of the Penal Code.

The learned trial Judge has come to the conclusion that there had been

a sudden fight and as a result of that, the deceased has succumbed to

the injuries. Counsel submits that the accused-appellant was 40 years

of age at the time of the incident and has one child and that he has no

previous convictions and that the accused-appellant never intended to

do any harm to his father, but unfortunately this incident had taken

place. Counsel further submits that the accused-appellant was in

remand pending trial of this case before the High Court as he was

unable to furnish the bail that had been ordered by the Magistrate. In

taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of this case

Counsel for the accused-appellant moves to impose a lenient sentence

on the accused-appellant and also to back date the said sentence from

t I I

I ! , II

r r I i ( [

\I\

ft

~ l

•• "

the date of conviction under Section 359 of the Criminal Procedure

Code. Learned counsel for the respondent leaves the sentence in the

hands of Court.

After considering the facts and circumstances of this case and the age

of the accused-appellant and taking into consideration the fact that the

accused-appellant was in remand pending trial in this case and also

the submissions made by the Counsel, we substitute a term of ten

years rigorous imprisonment on the accused-appellant. We also direct

that the sentence be implemented from the date of conviction namely,

10.11.2014. Subject to the said variation of the sentence, we dismiss

the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

K.K. WICKRAMASINGHE, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

KRLj-

2

I ( ; i I

~

I

f I I

\ II

f