==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C. A 390/2013 (Writ)

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

1.

2.

H. A. K. Chandrapala

146/1, Seruwila Road, Balummahara,

Mudungoda.

PETITIONER

Vs.

People's Bank

No. 75, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner

Mawatha, Colombo 2.

Gamini Sedara Senarath,

Chairman,

People's Bank

No. 75, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner

Mawatha, Colombo 2.

And 13 others

RESPONDENTS

Shantha Jayawardena for the Petitioner

02.12.2013

1

I I II ,

f 1

I

II

I

2

1 DECIDED ON: 10.12.2013

GOONERATNE J.

Learned Counsel for Petitioner supported this application on

01.12.2013 seeking mainly a Writ of Prohibition, to prevent the Respondent

considering document P11 as in sub paragraph la' (repeated twice) of the prayer

to the petition, and by the petition filed of record the Petitioner had also sought

an interim order from this court. The Petitioner joined the 1st Respondent Bank on

or about 1981 as a Grade I -Security Guard (P1). The body of the petition

indicates that he had been promoted at various stages and in the year 2004

promoted as Grade I - Security Inspector P4(a). However letter at P4(b) indicates

that the post is changed to Security Inspector - Grade II. Why this is done in that

way of change of Grade in 2008, is not explained in the petition. The Petitioner

also state that he was an active member of the Ceylon Bank Employees Union and

had been in the Executive Committee from 2002 - 2005. Petitioner became a

General Council member of the union from the year 2005.

I

t lI

I1! 1

I

\III

f i i

3

The Petitioner also refer to the several activities of the above union

and the way the Petitioner got involved in these activities. Learned counsel also

submitted to court that active participation in union activities resulted in

displeasure of the Senior Management of the Bank. In the year 2012 the

Petitioner had been transferred to the Gampaha Branch for the reason stated in

paragraph 12 of the petition, which was challenged in the District Court. It was

the case of the Petitioner that the District Court had initially granted certain relief

but orders had been canvassed in the Civil Appellate High Court by the

Defendants and the High Court suspended the orders made by the District Court.

Thereafter Petitioner served the Gampaha branch of the People's Bank as

pleaded in paragraph 15/16 of the petition where on the date mentioned therein

resulted in some damage to the vehicles belonging to the Bank where he

attempted to reverse his vehicle as described in the said paragraphs.

The Petitioner also state that the damaged vehicles were repaire:i by

him as directed by the Regional Manager. He also made a statement (vide

paragraphs 18/19). It was the submission of learned counsel for the Petitioner

that a charge sheet was issued and a disciplinary order (Pll) was made against

him without a proper inquiry pertaining to the above incident stated above.

Petitioner complains about the charge sheet and the Disciplinary Order Pll i.e no

II I I I i I

r I

~ i I 1 I

\ ,, I

J ! f i

4

inquiry held prior to issuing P11. It is pleaded in paragraph 30 of the petition that

the disciplinary action against the petitioner is illega" unreasonable and ultra

vires, the provisions of the Disciplinary Code of the Bank and the People's Bank

Act and void adintio inasmuch as:

(a) The Petitioner was not afforded a hearing as expressly provided by Clause 24.1 of the

Disciplinary Code;

(b) The Petitioner has been found guilty of charges that were not contained in the charge

sheet dated 12.08.2013 and which charges could not therefore even be addressed by

the Petitioner in his letter of explanation;

(c) The Respondents have not made a complaint to the police regarding any damage

caused to Bank property by the Petitioner as required;

(d) The Petitioner has been punished in violation of the rules of natural justice;

(e) The punishment imposed on the Petitioner is against the rules of proportionality, is

unreasonable and excessive;

(f) The said DiSciplinary Order and the purported disciplinary inquiry are tainted with

malice;

The Petitioner has applied for an extension of service (P1S) since he is due

to reach the age of S7 years, and if the extension is not granted he would have to

retire from service. Petitioner fears that in view of the alleged Disciplinary Order

P1l, which he claims to be illegal, should not be considered and the authorities be

prohibited from considering Pl1 in assessing the Petitioner's application P1S. A

Writ of Prohibition is sought in prohibiting the Respondents from considering Pl1

regarding his application for extension of service (PlS).

f I,

I II ! 1

5

The granting of an extension of service in any organization has to be

regulated according to the rules of the organization, state, statutory body etc. In

doing so the employer or the authority concerned should be left alone to arrive at

a reasonable valid decision. Extraneous matters cannot be considered. There is

no valid decision as regards document P11. In other words P11 has not been

challenged by the Petitioner in any court of competent jurisdiction other a

statement in the petition to the effect that the Petitioner has appealed against

the Disciplinary Order (P11). The outcome of the so called appeal is not known.

Whether the hearing of the so called appeal is delayed deliberately is not a matter

for this court to consider. In the absence of a valid decision on P11 (not sought in

this application) this court should not exercise the Writ Jurisdiction by using its

discretionary powers at a premature stage. In doing so endorsing Petitioner's

application by way of Writ of Prohibition, this court would unnecessarily cause

public/administrative inconvenience to the organization though that term t'"'o is

incapable of precise definition. Prohibition could be issued in a case where there

is going to be an invalid exercise of power or invalid action in the future, though

similar rules apply as in certiorari.

The People's Bank (1st Respondent) could very well ignore P11 and

still arrive at a decision regarding Petitioner's extension of service. It can either

1 l I i

6

grant or refuse an extension of service in the absence of Pll. In the absence of a I

glaring illegality which court could consider, it would not be the role of this court

I I

to issue formal notice on the Respondents in anticipation of Petitioner's plea

being rejected, for extension of service. As such we are not inclined to grant

formal notice, in this application. However there cannot be a bar for the

Petitioner to move a Court of competent jurisdiction in the future if the need

arises.

We refuse, formal notice.

Application dismissed. No costs.

Q~}s~

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Malinie Gunaratne J.

I agree. I,

! JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL