==== BLOCKS ==== 

I 1 I l I I f

,

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 1015/2000 F

D.C. Polonnaruwa No. 3812 / L

Pedric Appuhamy (deceased) Herath Mudiyanselage Bandara Menike, No. 1029, Unagalavehera, J ayanthipura.

Substituted Plaintiff

Vs.

N agahawatta Ralalage Gunaratne Banda, No. 1025, Unagalavehera, J ayanthipura.

Defendant

AND NOW BETWEEN

Nagahawatta Ralalage Gunaratne Banda, No. 1025, Unagalavehera, J ayanthipura.

Defendant Appellant

Vs

Pedric Appuhamy (deceased) Herath Mudiyanselage Bandara Menike, No. 1029, Unagalavehera, J ayanthipura.

Substituted Plaintiff Respondent

I1! r

I

i

I

j It

1lI

IIIIf III

BEFORE

COUNSELS

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

Defendant Appellant-Absent and unrepresented

Plaintiff Respondent- Absent and unrepresented

08.10.2013

The Plaintiff Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the Respondent)

instituted the said action against the Defendant Appellant (hereinafter referred to as

the Appellant) in the District Court ofPolonnaruwa seeking inter alia a declaration

of title to the land described in the 1 st schedule to the plaint.

The Appellant has filed an answer denying the averments contained in

the plaint and praying for a dismissal of the Respondent's action. The case

proceeded to trial upon 11 issues. After trial the learned Additional District Judge

has delivered a judgment in favour of the Respondent. Being aggrieved by the said

judgment dated 14.11.2000 the Appellant has appealed to this Court.

The Appellant has set out several grounds of appeal in paragraph 05

of the petition of appeal. The main grievance of the Appellant was that the

judgment was against the weight of the evidence adduced at the trial.

! i I i

ff

J!I t f I ! I

1I

I

I I I

,

3

I have carefully considered the impugned judgment of the learned

Additional District Judge and the evidence adduced at the trial. When I consider

the said evidence I am of the view that the learned trial judge has come to a right

conclusion after going through the evidence led before court.

In the said circumstances I see no reason to interfere with the said

judgement of the learned Additional District Judge dated 14.11.2000. Therefore I

dismiss the appeal of the Appellant without costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

1! ! ,! fIf Il

~ If I

III

II I r