==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for mandates in the nature of

writs of certiorari, mandamus and prohibition under Article

140 of the Constitution of Sri Lanka

C.A. (Writ) Application

No: 439/ 2011

KAPS Angulugaha, Group Captain

(Temporary Air Commodore), Sri Lanka Air

Force.

Petitioner

- Vs-

1. Air Marshal HD Abeywickrama, Commander of Sri Lanka Air Force, Headquarters, Colombo 2.

2. Gotabhaya Rajapakasha,

Secretary Ministry of Defence.

3. Air Vice Marshall

PB Premachandra, (Former Chief of Staff)

4. Air Vice Marshall, KRA Ranasinghe,

Director Administration Sri Lanka Air Force

5. Air Vice Marshall Kolitha Gunathilake

Chief of Staff, Sri Lanka Air Force.

6. Group Captain Roshan Biyanwila,

Secretary to the Commander of

Sri Lanka Air Force.

7. Hon. Attomey General

Respondents.

Before

Counsel

Argued on

Decided on

Sisira de Abrew J & Sunil Rajapakshe J

2

JC Waliamuna with M Ratnayake for the Petitioner.

Vickum De Abrew SSC for the Respondents.

10. 10.2012, 17.10.2012

24. 01. 2013.

Sisira de Abrew J.

This is a petition to set aside the decision of the 1st respondent

not to recommend the petitioner's promotion to the substantive rank of Air

Commodore and his decision to forward retirement papers in respect of the

petitioner to His Excellency the President for approval. Although there are

several prayers in the petition learned counsel for the petitioner at the

hearing before us submitted that he would restrict his relief only to

paragraphs (b) and (d) of the prayer to the petition.

The petitioner was a Group Captain in Sri Lanka Air Force

(SLAF). He was, with effect from 1.1.201 0, promoted to the rank of

Temporary Acting Air Commodore and was interviewed by the Annual

Promotion Board (APB) for confinnation in the rank of Air Commodore.

The petitioner states that the recommendation of the APB to confirm him in

the substantive rank of Air Commodore had been approved and signed by

the then Commander of SLAF and was due to be forwarded to His

Excellency the President for his approval. However the petitioner has later

learnt that the 1st respondent who is the present commander of SLAF had

decided not to recommend his promotion to the substantive rank of Air

3

Commodore to His Excellency the President but to forward his retirement

papers to His Excellency the President for approval. These are the two

decisions of the 1st respondent that the petitioner challenges in this case. The

petitioner challenges that the said decisions of the 1st respondent are

unreasonable, unfair, arbitrary, irrational, in violation of his legitimate

expectation and against the principles of natural justice. The petitioner by

way of writ of certiorari seeks to quash the said two decisions of the 1st

respondent. What does the 1st respondent say on this matter? He m

paragraph 15(e) and (f) of his affidavit states as follows:

15(e) "The petitioner's promotion was not forwarded to His Excellency the

President having considered the facts of merit, age and seniority of other

officers in the best interest of the Air Force."

15(f) "Since the petitioner reached the maximum period in the rank of

Group Captain, the approval of His Excellency was sought to send the

petitioner on retirement under para 3(2) of the Air Force Pension and

Gratuity Code. (The Respondents reserved the right to produce relevant

documentation to Your Lordships' Court at the stage of arguments)." Thus

the 1st respondent admits that the petitioner's promotion was not forwarded

to His Excellency the President and that the petitioner's retirement papers

were forwarded to His Excellency the President. Learned SSC contended

that when 1st respondent did not forward the documents relating to the

petitioner's promotion to HE the President there was no decision by the 1st

respondent. But it is very clear from the 1st respondent's statement of

objection and his affidavit that he had decided not to forward the petitioners

papers relating to the promotion to HE the President. For these reasons I am

unable to agree with the contention of the learned SSe on this Point.

Learned SSe further contended when the 1st respondent forwarded the

4

petitioner's retirement papers to HE the President it was only a

recommendation and not a decision and that therefore it could not be

quashed by way of certiorari. I now advert to this contention. When the 1st

respondent decided not to forward the petitioner's papers relating to the

promotion of Air Commodore, he knew that the petitioner after reaching the

maximum period, had to retire. Thus how can it be said that the 1st

respondent had not decided to forward retirement papers to HE the

President? From the statement of objection and the affidavit of the 1st

respondent, it is very clear that the 1st respondent had decided to forward the

retirement papers of the petitioner to HE the President. I am therefore unable

to agree with the above contention of the learned sse.

Learned SSC next contended that the petitioner had not submitted

these two decisions in court and that therefore they could not be quashed by

a writ of certiorari. Although learned SSC contended so, he himself, in the

course of his submission, submitted that these documents were confidential

documents. If that is so how can the petitioner obtain copies of these

documents? Even the 1st respondent with his statement of objection has not

submitted these documents. For the above reasons I am unable to agree with

the submission of learned sse.

Learned SSC next contended that in any event granting relief

claimed by the petitioner is now futile as HE the President has now signed

the retirement papers and that the decision of HE the President could not be

challenged. Learned counsel for the petitioner replying this submission

contended that if the said decision of the 1st respondent are quashed it would

not be futile as he could appeal to HE the President to reconsider his case.

Learned sse cited Siddeek Vs Jacolyn Seneviratne [1984] 1SLR 83 wherein

the Supreme Court at page 90 held thus: "The writ of certiorari clearly will

5

not Issue where the end result will be futility, frustration, injustice and

illegality." In the case of Air Vice Marshall Elmo Perera Vs Liyanage [2003]

1 SLR 331 Court of Appeal held thus: "Writ will not lie if the final relief

sought is a futile remedy." I must consider whether quashing of two

decisions of the 1st respondent would be futile. The 1st respondent in his

statement of objection admits that he sought approval of HE the President to

send the petitioner on retirement. Thus it appears that the petitioner was sent

on retirement on the decision of the 1st respondent. If this decision of the 1st

respondent is quashed, it is possible for He the President to reconsider his

decision on an appeal submitted by the petitioner. Therefore one cannot say

that quashing of two decisions of the 1st respondent would be futile. For

these reasons I am unable to agree with the submission of the learned SSC.

Learned SSC next contended that it will not be possible for the

petitioner to appeal to HE the President as he had already submitted an

appeal to HE the President by document marked P7 c and that HE the

President had taken the decision to send him on retirement after considering

his grievances. Learned SSC contended that the 1st respondent had submitted

the document marked P7 c to HE the President. Has the 1st respondent in fact

sent this document to HE the President? If he has sent it there should be a

covering letter addressed to HE the President or his secretary. No such letter

has been produced by the 1st respondent. In these circumstances it is not

possible to decide that the 1st respondent had sent the document marked P7c

to HE the President. For these reasons I am unable to agree with the

submission of lean1ed sse.

Learned SSC next contended that the petitioner is not entitled to

the relief claimed as there is a delay in coming to court. I now advert to this

contention. According to the petitioner he first came to know the decision of

6

the 1st respondent not to recommend him to his promotion only on 28.4.

2011 (vide paragraph 18 of the petition). He filed this case on 29.6.2011.

Therefore it is clear that within two months he has come to this court. Thus

can it be said that there was a delay in coming to this court. I think not. For

these reasons, I am unable to agree with the submission of learned SSC.

The petitioner, in paragraph 18 of his petition says that the APB

and the former Commander of the SLAF had recommended the petitioner's

promotion to the substantive rank of Air Commodore. The 1st respondent has

not denied this paragraph. The 1st respondent, in his statement of objection,

admits that he did not forward the papers relating to the petitioner's

promotion to HE the President on the ground of merit, age and seniority of

other officers. According to him this was done in the best interest of the Air

force. On what basis did he come to this conclusion especially when the

APB of which the 1st respondent himself was a member and the former

Commander of the SLAF had recommended the petitioner's promotion? The

1st respondent has not explained these matters. Has he forwarded his reasons

for his decision? The answer is no. Has he given any hearing to the

petitioner before he took his decision? The answer is no. Therefore I hold

that his decision not to forward the petitioner's promotion to HE the

President is unreasonable, arbitrary, irrational and against the principles of

natural justice. I further hold that his decision is wrong. Since his above

decision is wrong, his subsequent decision to forward petitioner's retirement

papers to HE the President is also wrong.

For the above reasons, I hold that the said two decisions of the 1st

respondent should be quashed by issuing a writ of certiorari. I therefore

issuing a writ of certiorari quash the decision of the 1st respondent not to

recommend the petitioner's promotion to the substantive rank of Air

7

Commodore and his decision to forward the retirement papers of the

petitioner to His Excellency the President for approval. I grant the relief

claimed in paragraphs (b) and (d) of the prayer to the petition.

Sunil Rajapakshe J

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.