==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA 292/2007

Nanayakkara Kappetiduwage Thilakananda Nanyakkara

Accused-Appellant

Vs The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Complainant Respondent

HC Gampaha 162/2004

Before

Counsel

Argued on Decided on

Sisira J de Abrew J & PWDC J ayathilakeJ

Anil Silva President's Counsel for the appellant Kapila Waidyarathne DSG for the Respondent

2.4.2013 and 3.4.2013 30.5.2013

Sisira J de Abrew J.

The charges levelled against the accused appellant in this case are that

he with others unknown to the prosecution, by throwing a bomb, caused injuries to

IP Jayasiri, YP Wilson, WP Gamini Wijesundara, IP Rasika Chaminda, DM

Piyarathne, WP Pushpasiri alias Robert, WP Somaweera and ~ Nihal. He was

charged under Section 4(2) of the Offensive Weapons Act No 18 of 1966. The

learned trial Judge after trial convicted the accused appellant of all eight counts and

sentenced him on each count to a term of ten years rigorous imprisonment (RI) and

to pay a fine ofRs.2,500/- carrying a default sentence of six months imprisonment.

2

The learned trial Judge directed that ten year RI imposed on each count should run

concurrently. Being aggrieved by the said convictions and the sentences the

accused appellant has appealed to this court. Facts of this case may be briefly

summarized as follows.

Jayasiri who is one of the injured persons in this case took possession of the

boutique owned by the accused appellant's mother-in-law on a lease agreement.

He was, even at the time of the incident, running the boutique. This boutique which

was very close to the house of the mother-in-law of the accused appellant was

situated on Naiwala- Diwulapitiya road. On 28.11.99 the accused appellant who

was living in the house of the mother-in-law came to the boutique and asked

Jayasiri as to when he would be leaving the boutique. Jayasiri told him that he

would be leaving on 30.12.99. The accused appellant then told Jayasiri to take the

garbage in front of the boutique when leaving the boutique. Around 8.00 p.m. on

the same day the accused appellant with four others came to this boutique and two

of them entered the boutique. One person gave a slap to Jayasiri's son. Other

person took a knife which was in the boutique and assaulted Jayasiri who sustained

a cut injury in his mouth. J ayasiri after closing the boutique went and lodged a

complaint at the police station. When Jayasiri came back around 11.30.p.m. he met

the people who had gathered in front of his boutique. At this time Jayasiri and the

crowd saw the accused appellant's car coming from the direction of Naiwala on

Naiwala Diwulapitiya road. Before it reached the house of the mother-in-law, the

accused appellant reversed the car, turned towards Naiwala and stopped the car.

They also saw a motor cycle that came behind the car stooped near the car. A

person on the pillion of the motor cycle threw some object at the crowd. At this

time the accused appellant got down from his car and threw something which

exploded. The accused appellant thereafter drove away the car. Jayasiri and seven

others sustained injuries from the explosion which was later proved to be a bomb

3

explosion. This was the summary of the evidence of Jayasiri and other injured

persons. The investigating police officer who came to the scene found a handle of a

bomb and an unexploded bomb which was later defused by the bomb disposal

squad of the Army. He also noticed some blood stains and damage caused to the

road.

The accused appellant gave evidence under oath. His evidence may be

briefly summarized as follows. On 28.11.1999 when he went to the boutique run

by Jayasiri there was an exchange of words between both of them. Later in the

evening (he does not indicate the time) when he with Upalie and Saman came to

the boutique, he again had an exchange of words with Jayasiri. At this stage,

Upalie and Saman assaulted Jayasiri. When Jayasiri's son took a knife one of them

snatched the knife. Thereafter all three went to Upalie's house as Upalie was

getting ready to give an alms-giving on the following day. Later when he was at

Uplaie's house, he received a message from his wife to the effect that around 100

people were waiting to kill him. He after spending some time at Upalie's place,

without going to the police station, set off for his house with Upalie and Saman.

When he was coming on Naiwala Diwulapitiya road around 11.30 p.m. he saw

around 100 people carrying clubs and Jayasiri having an object like a bomb. He,

due to fear, reversed the car and turned back facing Naiwala. Saman got down

from the car to give directions when he was reversing. When he accelerated he

heard a loud explosion. He thereafter went to the police station. Saman did not go

to the police station with him and got down on the way to the police station. He

went to the police station with Uplaie. But he does not know whether Upalie made

a statement to the police. The accused appellant denied all charges. This was the

summary of evidence of the accused appellant.

Although the accused appellant takes up the position that he went with

Uplaie to the police station when he was confronted with a portion of his statement

4

made to the police wherein he had stated that he was unable to produce Saman and

Uplaie as he was unaware of their whereabouts, he admitted the said statement to

be a correct one. Thus his evidence that he took Uplaie to the police station

becomes false. Further Prosecuting State counsel during the cross examination

brought to the notice of the court that he (the accused appellant) had failed to give

details of Uplaie in his statement made to the police. This was marked as an

omission. If the story of the accused appellant is true the question arises as to why

he did not give whereabouts of Saman and Uplaie to the police.

The accused appellant admits that J ayasiri and the crowd (about 1 00

people) were carrying clubs when he came to this place. He says that the bomb

brought by Jayasiri's crowd exploded. If that is so, the clubs that these people were

supposed to be carrying would have fallen at the scene. Did the police find any

club at the scene? The answer is no. These observations would demonstrate that

the stand taken up by the accused appellant is false. Learned trial Judge had

considered some of the above matters. When I consider all these matters, I hold

that the evidence of the accused appellant cannot be accepted and is not sufficient

to create a reasonable doubt in the truth of the prosecution case. Therefore in my

view the learned trial Judge was right when decided to reject the evidence of the

accused appellant.

Learned defence counsel, at the trial, brought to the notice of court a

portion of a statement made by Jayasiri to the police and sought to mark a

contradiction. According to the said portion of the statement Jayasiri had said that

he and the people gathered near his boutique went towards the place where the car

was parked in order to see why the car was stopped. J ayasiri said that he could not

remember whether he made such a statement. The leraned trial judge therefore did

not allow him to mark the said contradiction. Leraned PC appearing for the

accused appellant contended that he could not continue with his line of cross-

5

examination due to the said ruling. I now advert to this contention. What is the

evidence of Jayasiri on this point? He said that at the time that the car was parked

facing Naiwala, he and the people gathered at this place were going towards the

place where the car was parked in order go to his house. According to the

evidence, in order to go to Jyasiri's house from his boutique one has to go towards

the place where the car was parked. Thus when evidence and the statement made to

the police are considered there was no contradiction in relation to the direction in

which they were proceeding. The only difference is that according to the police

statement Jayasiri wanted to see why the car was stopped. But according to the

evidence he and the crowd were going home. Even if this contradiction was

marked can it be said that it goes to the root of the case. I think not. I therefore hold

that the ruling given by the learned trial judge not to mark the said contradiction

has not caused prejudice to the accused appellant. For the above reasons, I am

unable to agree with the submissions of the learned PC.

Learned PC drawing the attention of court to pages 484, 485 and 486 of

the brief next contended that the learned trial Judge had placed a burden on the

accused appellant to prove his defence. The evidence of the accused appellant was

that at the time of the bomb explosion Saman and Upalie were with him and that

on his way to the police station Saman got down at V eyangoda. I have earlier

pointed out that his evidence that he took Uplaie to the police station is false.

Further Prosecuting State Counsel brought to the notice of court, by way of

omission, that the accused appellant, in his statement made to the police, had failed

to give details about Uplaie. The above evidence demonstrates that Upalie and

Saman had not made statements to the police and that the accused appellant had

not taken Upalie with him to the police station. Learned trial Judge, in his

judgment, stated that Upalie and Saman did not give evidence and that they had not

6

made statements to the police. Learned trial Judge, in his judgment, further

observed that the story of the accused appellant was completely different from the

story of the prosecution but he (the accused) had failed to support his story.

According to the story of the accused appellant Saman and Upalie were present

with him at the time of the explosion and he heard it while he was moving away

from the place of explosion. At this time Saman and Upalie were present with him

in his car. The question that any reasonable prudent man would ask is why didn't

Saman and Upalie make statements to the police and support his story by giving

evidence. The accused appellant, in his evidence, stated that Saman and Upalie had

gone abroad. The fact that Saman and Upalie did not make statements to the police

and that they did not give evidence are true incidents. When the trial Judge, in his

judgment, states these true incidents it cannot be considered as placing a burden on

the accused appellant. When the defence raised by the accused is not proved by

evidence it is the duty of the trial judge to state that it had not been proved. When

he, in his judgment, makes such an observation it cannot be interpreted to say that

he had placed a burden on the accused. If such an observation is not made an

argument could be advanced that the learned trial Judge had not considered the

defence of the accused. When I consider all these matters, I am of the opinion that

when the trial judge makes an observation that the defence of the accused had not

been proved, it cannot be interpreted to say that he had placed a burden on the

accused. Learned PC did not challenge the fact that eight people had sustained

injuries as a result of a bomb explosion at the place described by the prosecution

witness.

For the above reasons I am unable to agree with the submissions of

learned PC. When I consider the evidence led at the trial and the judgment, I hold

the view that there is no ground to interfere with the judgment of the learned trial

7

Judge. I therefore affirm the conviction and the sentence and dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

PWDC Jayathilake J

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Judge of the Court of Appeal.