==== BLOCKS ==== 

! I i I

I

j 1 I 1 j i ,I

\ i ! J 1 ! i i I I j i ,

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

In the matter of an Application for Leave to

Appeal under and in terms of Section 754 (2) of

the Civil Procedure Code read with Section 757

thereof.

CA No: CALA 53/07

D.C. Horana Case No: 2947/Land

1. SeinudeenMarikkarAhamed Bari,

Bogahawatta, Atalugama,

Bandaragama.

2. Abdul KafoorMohommed Ameer

5/1, Arathusha Lane,

Colombo 06.

Plaintiffs

UpulKarunaratne,

No: 26,

1

Dhammaratana Road,

Horana.

AND

1. SeinudeenMarikkarAhamed Bari,

Bogahawatta, Atalugama,

Bandaragama.

2. Abdul KafoorMohommed Ameer

5/1, Arathusha Lane,

Colombo 06.

Plaintiffs - Petitioner

UpulKarunaratne,

No: 26,

Dhammaratana Road,

Horana.

Defendant - Respondent

2

BEFORE P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J

COUNSEL HarshaSoza p.e with A.

Dharmaratne for the Petitioner.

PrabuddhaHettiarachchi for the

Respondent.

ARGUEDON 01.07.2014

DECIDEDON 27.11.2014

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J

Action for declaration of title bearing No: 2947/L has been instituted by Plaintiff

Appellants, namely, Seinudeen Marikkar Ahamed Bari and Abdul Kapoor Mohamed

Ameer against the Defendant Respondent, namely, UpulKarunaratne seeking inter

alia a declaration that the 1st and the 2nd Plaintiffs are jOintly entitled to an undivided

89/120 share in the land described in the schedule to the plaint. They have further

asked for a declaration that the defendant has no right whatsoever to the said land.

3

, I !,r,

tI

tf

Itf1

(i

,

t

t

f

~

An interim injunction and an enjoining order against the Defendant also has been

prayed for to restrain the Defendant from causing damage and loss whatsoever to

the 1st Plaintiffs cultivation in the land and from preventing the Defendant from

cultivating the land. This is an appeal in respect of the order made by the District

Judge dismissing the application for interim injunction.

Admittedly Defendanfs father was the tenant cultivator of the land in dispute and

upon his death, it was devolved on the Defendant's mother. The point in dispute is

the claim of the Defendant for the said right on the basis that he has been nominated

as the successor to tenant cultivation in terms of the document marked Y14. The

counsel for the appellant submits that Y14 is wrong and illegal as there was no

provision under the law for the appointment of the successor to tenant cultivation as

at 23.08.1991 on which date the said nomination was made. He further submits that

according to the paddy land registers marked as X30 and X31, the Defendant is not a

registered tenant cultivator of the land in dispute. Therefore, the learned District

Judge has errored in coming to the conclusion that the Defendant was in possession

of the land according to which the decision to dismiss the application for interim

injunction has been made the learned President Counsel for the Appellants states.

The counsel for the Defendant Respondent accepts the legal position submitted by

the Counsel for the appellants under the provisions of the Agrarian Services

Development Act as it stood at the time of filing the case with regard to the

4

!t

t

~ !

I I I I I 1 1 I ,

succession of tenant cultivator. But his argument is that it could not be interpreted

to mean that the Appellants get the right to forcibly evict the Respondent without

recourse to the final judgment of the case. In support of his argument, he stresses

that Plaintiff Appellants in their plaint have asked for an order for the eviction of the

Defendant Respondent from the corpus as a main relief of the case.

On the face of the plaint it appears that even though the plaintiffs have asked for

eviction of the defendant, the case has been filled on the basis that the Plaintiffs are

in fact in the possession. But when going through the averments up to the prayer,

the impression one gets is that although the plaintiffs have made an attempt to

obtain the possession it has been disturbed by the defendant.

While admitting that he is cUltivating the paddy land cultivated by his father and the

mother as tenant cultivator and claiming the same right on the basis that he has

been nominated as the successor to the said tenancy, the defendant has stated that

he has become a co-owner of the property by purchasing an undivided share.

It appears that there is only one issue to be adjudicated in the main case, that is the

title of the land. This court is of the view that the title has become a question of law

on the above mentioned admissions of the defendant. Yet, as the possession is a

question of fact which is relevant in respect of issuing an interim injunction as prayed

for in the plaint, the court must be satisfied with the fact about the person who was

in possession of the property. As the learned District Judge has come to the

5

i

!!{

conclusion that the defendant respondent was in possession on the reasons set out

in his orderJ this court is of the opinion that there is no reason to interfere with the

order of the learned District Judge. Therefore J this court decides to dismiss the

appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

6