==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 944 / 2000 F

D.C. Colombo No. 16483 / L

Sheriff Ali M. Naufer Ali, No. 1211, Percy Dias Mawatha, Mabole, Wattala.

Plaintiff

Vs.

Minsiri J ayantha Thilakaratne, No. 09, Vinayalankara Mawatha,

Colombo 10.

Defendant

AND NOW BETWEEN

Minsiri J ayantha Thilakaratne, No. 09, Vinayalankara Mawatha, Colombo 10.

Defendant Appellant

Vs

Sheriff Ali M. Naufer Ali, No. 1211, Percy Dias Mawatha, Mabole, Wattala.

Plaintiff Respondent

f

f

I I I

1 I I I I I

BEFORE

COUNSELS

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

Defendant Appellant-Absent and unrepresented

Plaintiff Respondent - Absent and unrepresented

07.08.2013

The Plaintiff Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the Respondent)

instituted the said action against the Defendant Appellant (hereinafter referred to as

the Appellant) in the District Court of Colombo seeking inter alia a declaration of

title to the land described in the schedule to the plaint.

The Appellant has filed an answer praying for a dismissal of the

Respondent's action and for a declaration of title to the land described in the

schedule to the plaint.

The case proceeded to trial upon 25 issues. After trial the learned

District Judge has delivered a judgment in favour of the Respondent. Being

aggrieved by the said judgment dated 09.11.2000 the Appellant has appealed to

this Court.

The Appellant has set out several grounds of appeal in paragraph 20

of the petition of appeal. His main grievance is that the judgment is against the

weight of the evidence adduced at the trial and the learned Trial Judge has failed to

evaluate the evidence of the case.

f

t

ItiI

fII

I i

Il

! I I

3

The Respondent has closed his case leading evidence of the

Respondent and 02 other witnesses and producing the documents marked P 1 to P

70. The Respondent has produced his title deeds in order to prove his title to the

land in suit. He has also produced documents to prove his possession of the land in

suit. The Appellant has claimed a prescriptive title to the land in suit. The

Appellant has closed his case leading evidence of the Appellant and producing the

documents marked V 1 to V 20.

I have carefully considered the impugned judgment of the learned

District Judge and the said evidence adduced at the trial. When I consider the said

evidence I am of the view that the learned trial judge has come to a right

conclusion after evaluating the evidence led before court.

In the said circumstances I see no reason to interfere with the said

judgement of the learned District Judge dated 09.11.2000. Therefore I dismiss the

appeal of the Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

f

!