==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRILANKA

C A 850 I 2000 (F) D.C. Colombo No. 8769 I RE

M. R. Mohomad Luthfy, 3 0/7, Hamza Lane, Muthuwella Mawatha, Colombo 15.

Vs.

Izzathul Raheema, 8113 A, Hamza Lane, Muthuwella Mawatha, Colombo 15.

PLaintiff

Defendant

NOW BETWEEN

Izzathul Raheema, 8113 A, Hamza Lane, Muthuwella Mawatha, Colombo 15.

Defendant Appellant

Vs. M. R. Mohomad Luthfy, 30/7, Hamza Lane, Muthuwella Mawatha, Colombo 15.

Plaintiff Respondent

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

N.M. Shaheed with I.L.M. Azwar for the Defendant Appellant

A.H.G. Ameen with Miss Waduge for the Plaintiff Respondent

06.02.2013

14.05.2013

The Plaintiff Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the Respondent)

instituted an action in the District Court of Galle against the Defendant Appellant

(hereinafter referred to as the Appellant) seeking a judgment for a declaration of

title to the land described in the schedule to the plaint and to eject the Appellant

from the said land and to handover the vacant possession thereof. The Appellant

filed his answer praying for a dismissal of the Respondent's action. The Appellant

has taken up the position that she was the tenant of the premises in dispute. The

case proceeded to trial upon 12 issues. After trial, the learned Additional District

Judge has delivered a judgment in favour of the Respondent. Being aggrieved by

the said judgment dated 31.07.2000 the Appellant has preferred the present appeal

to this court.

The Respondent had instituted the action on the basis that the

premises in suit were given to the Appellant by the father of the Respondent

without any rent or payment to stay temporarily until the Appellant find a house

and accordingly the Appellant came in to the said premises with leave and licence

3

and occupied in the house on sympathetic grounds. The Respondent has further

averred that on 20.12.1996 he proceeded to terminate the said leave and licence

and inform the Appellant to hand over the vacant possession of the land in suit to

the Respondent.

The Appellant has taken up the position that the premises in suit were

governed by the Rent Act No 07 of 1972 and she was the statutory tenant of the

premises in suit. I now consider the said submissions of the Appellant. It is

important to note that the Appellant has not denied the Respondent's title to the

land in suit and also the receipt of the notice sent by the Respondent.

It was in evidence that the Appellant did not produce any

documentary proof in order to prove the tenancy. It was also in evidence that the

Appellant had made an application to the Rent Board for a certificate of tenancy

and the said application also had been refused by the Rent Board. The decision of

the Rent Board has been produced marked P 2. It appears from P 2 that the Rent

Board has come to a conclusion that the Appellant was a licensee.

Hence in the said circumstances I am of the view that the learned

Additional District Judge is correct in concluding that the Respondent is entitled to

a judgment for a declaration of title. For the above reasons, I dismiss the appeal of

the Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal