==== BLOCKS ==== 

! I . I •

..

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for

mandates in the nature of writs of

certiorari and/or Mandamus and/or

Prohibition under Article 140 of the

Constitution of the Democratic Socialist

Republic of Sri lanka.

Case No. C.A. Writ 99/2013 Weerakoon Mudiyanselage Weerasekara

Bandara,

Rawa Ela,

Thalakola Wewa,

Via Kurunegalla.

Petitioner

1

•

1. Capt. S.N.A.M.S.Priyashantha,

Sri lanka Electrical and Mechanical

Engineering, Regiment of Sri lanka

Army, 5th Battalion, Saliyapura Army

Camp, Anuradhapura.

2. Lt. A.M.M.C.Adikari

Sri lanka Electrical and Mechanical

Engineering, Regiment of Sri lanka

Army, 5th Battalion, Saliyapura Army

Camp, Anuradhapura.

3. Major K.M.J.N.R.K. Chandrasekara,

Sri lanka Electrical and Mechanical

Engineering, Regiment of Sri lanka

Army, 5th Battalion, Saliyapura Army

Camp, Anuradhapura.

2

4. Lt. Col. D.P. Hathurusinghe,

Commander,

Sri Lanka Electrical and Mechanical

Engineering Armored Battalion,

Saliyapura Camp, Anuradhapura.

5. Major H.P.L. de Alwis,

Second in Command,

Sri Lanka Electrical and Mechanical

Engineering Armored Battalion,

; Saliyapura Camp, Anuradhapura.

~ \ l,

I ,

6. Capt B.M.G.S. Somanatha, l¥,,I ; Adjutant,

Sri Lanka Electrical and Mechanical

Engineering Armored Battalion,

Saliyapura Camp, Anuradhapura.

!

[ I !-lj!,(

f ,. I!3 fJi

t , I

l..'

7. Major K.A.R.K. Dias,

j I Regimental Executive, I Sri lanka Electrical and Mechanical l-

t Engineering Regimental Centre, J ! J ' Malay Street, Colombo 02. 1 .

l-

8. Major J.P.P.Muthumala, 1

~

1 1 ~ Administrative Officer, I , ! l . ,. Sri lanka Electrical and Mechanical

! t Engineering Regimental Centre, l i , i 1 f • Malay Street, Colombo 02. 1 1 j 1 I' 1. , 1 t j 9. Col. M.A.A.D. Sirinaga, ! f I ! Centre Commander,

i I .

Sri lanka Electrical and Mechanical

Engineering Regimental Centre,

Malay Street, Colombo 02.

4

..

10.Major General Jagath Jayasuriya,

Commander of Sri Lanka Army,

Sri Lanka Army Headquarters,

Baladaksha Mawatha, Colombo 02.

11. Gotabhaya Rajapaksha,

Defence Secretary,

Ministry of Defence,

Colombo 01.

12. Hon. Attorney General,

Attorney General's Department,

Hulftsdorph, Colombo 12.

Respondents

BEFORE P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J

COUNSEL Mangala Niyanpola with

Edward Samarasekara,

5

,II

\Ii!

ft

I!,!

, ; ARGUED ON \. ;

~ . ! I I I I' .. Written Submissions field on 1 i j . I ,.

~ .

DECIDED ON

6

Subashini Kulatunga and

Hemalee Abhayawickrama for the

Petitioner.

Nayomi Kahawita sse with Rizni

Firdous, S de Almeida and

Dharshini Gamlath for

Respondents.

07.05.2014, 11.06.2014

20.06.2014

11.08.2014 and 18.11.2014

25.05.2015

i i I

IIIl I

~ , ! ,lItt

t! I

,

\ ' .

t I ! j j

/. I r t .t

j ,

, ! ' ! I ; -

, .

! I ' I

I-.

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake. J

The Petitioner was a Soldier of the regular force of Sri Lanka Army and was a

senior non-commissioned officer holding a rank of sergeant. He was attached

to SLEMP 5th battation, Saliyapura Army Camp by having served the army 24th

June 2012 for 17 years. The Petitioner, 28 other soldiers of different ranks, two

officers and one civil servant had been assigned duties at an event organized

by army held at Sevanagala, Udawalawa on the said date. The Petitioner and

J

~i I

other assignees started off from Anuradhapura, Saliyapura Camp on 22nd June

!I2012 and proceeded to Udawalawa in an Army truck, a distance of more than

360km. The Petitioner states that they were travelling in the rear of the truck

\

Iwith great difficulty due to the insufficiency of space. The Petitioner and others

spent three nights in Udawalawa where they had to sleep on a pavement after

the assigned duties. They reported to the Udawalawa Army Camp their return

7

journey to Saliyapura around 7.00 a.m on 25th June, but started off on the

journey to Saliyapura at about 7.50 a.m due to belated readiness of the

commander on travel who is the 1st Respondent. Non of the soldiers including

the Petitioner had not been provided with breakfast by Udawalawa Camp as

the travel order had already been obtained on the previous day to leave

Udawalawa Camp at 5.00 a.m. The Petitioner has described the hardship they

underwent during their return such as the lack of space of the vehicle, non

availability of food and drinks, getting wet in the rain and not stopping of the

truck for their call of nature. Finally, due to the incapability of bearing the

inconveniences, they had banged on the cabin glass to make the truck stop.

When the truck stopped, R.S.M the Petitioner and a few others had gone to

the 1st Respondent to tell about the uncomfortable situation in which they

were at that time. The 1st Respondent seated on the front seat had opened the

door and tried to kick the R.S.M. But after reaching Saliyapura Camp around

8.00 p.m the Petitioner and others came to know that the 1st Respondent had . -

complained to the second in command of the Saliyapura Camp who is the 3

rd

8

Respondent that the Petitioner had acted in a disgraceful manner by trying to

assault the 1st Respondent. After that the Petitioner was subjected to various

harassments and was served with a charge sheet on 4th March 2013 by the 9th

Respondent. The two charges were as follows.

Sec. 99(2)(a) -Whilst being in active service as a Soldier of the Regular

Force of Sri Lanka Army, "assaulting or threatening a Senior

Officer" i.e whilst on the way back to saliyapura from Uda

Walawa on 25.06.0912 after completing the organizational

duties of the Walawa Super Cross meet threatening and

attempting to assault the Tour Commander of the Army

Truck 0/66962 Capt s. N.A. M.S. Priyasantha and thereby

committing an offence punishable under Sec. 99(2)(a) of the

Army Act No. 17 of 1949.

Sec. 129(1) Whilst being in active service as a Soldier of the Regular

Force of Sri Lanka Army, "conducting in a manner prejudicial

to military discipline" i.e whilst on the way back to

saliyapura from Uda Walawa on 25.06.0912 after

completing the organizational duties of the Walawa Super

9

I

\

t

t I

~ !II

rII !

I I

f I -! t

~. -

, /.

..

Cross meet acting in a manner unbecoming of a Senior non

commissioned officer by threatening and attempting to

assault the Tour Commander of the Army Truck 0/66962

Capt S.N.A.M.S. Priyasantha and thereby committing an

offence punishable under Sec. 129(1} of the Army Act No.17

of 1949.

The Petitioner states that he is not guilty of two charges and stresses that even

though the witnesses called to establish the charges, including the 2nd

Respondent were flabbergasted over the allegations, the 9th Respondent held

him guilty of the two charges and imposed punishments on the same day,

namely, 04.03.2013. The said punishments were

(i) Demotion from the rank of Sergeant to Corporal in respect of the 1st

charge

(ii) Demotion from the rank of Corporal to Lance Corporal in respect of

the 2

nd charge.

However, the 9th Respondent had summoned the Petitioner on the following

day, namely, 5th March 2013, and informed him that the Army Commander,

10

j •

I. I

~

! .

,~ i i' l I j

j ! . , ; . 1 , i , I·

the 10th Respondent, having considered the report of the preliminary

investigation court with regard to the same incident has concluded and thus

ordered that the Petitioner be discharged from the Army on the basis that his

service was not required by the Army. The Petitioner alleged that the 9th

Respondent charge sheeted him and conducted the inquiry on 04.03.2013

while the 9th Respondent had the 10th Respondent's order in his possession.

Accordingly, the Petitioner complains to this court that the 9th Respondent

acting in collusion with the other Respondents had breached the provisions of

the Army Act and also acted violating the principles of Natural Justice.

The Preliminary Investigation Court comprising the 4th, 5th and 6th Respondents

had not conducted a proper and transparent inquiry in respect of the

difficulties and hardships undergone by the Petitioner due to the inhumane

treatment meted out to the Petitioner had complained of same in his written

statement tendered to the 3rd Respondent and also before the Preliminary

Investigation Court. The Petitioner states that the 3rd, 4th, 5th and 9th

Respondents have jointly and/or severally misled the 3

rd Respondent by

11

r i , t

misdirecting him of the real facts of the matter in an attempt to safeguard the

1st Respondent which has resulted in the 10th Respondent to arrive his

conclusion to discharge the Petitioner from the Army. The Petitioner in his

petition, has prayed for a writ in the nature of certiorari quashing the charge i ' . sheet and the finding of the 9th Respondent dated 04.03.2013 marked as P2 ; a I

• writ in the nature of certiorari quashing the relevant conclusions arrived at by

the 10th Respondent and also related orders therein relating to the Petitioner

marked as P3 and a writ in the nature of certiorari quashing the order

conveyed to the Petitioner by the i h Respondent, marked as X. He has further

prayed for a writ in the nature of prohibition preventing taking any action

against the Petitioner as per the orders made in relation to the documents

marked as P3 and X and to issue a writ, in the nature of Mandamus compelling

the 3rd to 10th Respondents to act in terms of the provisions of the Army Act to

hold a full and fair summary trial and/or court Martial into all allegations raised

against the Petitioner by the 1st Respondent and such other and further reliefs.

The Respondents in their statement of objections stated as follows.

12

I

t I· t

During the course of the return journey to Saliyapura on 25.06.2012, the

Petitioner together with the Petitioners of other connected cases had

threatened and attempted to assault the 1st Respondent who was a tour

commander and an officer superior in rank and file to them. On 25.06.2012 the

1st Respondent and the officer in second command were ready at 6.00 a.m

however, the Petitioner and other Soldiers were late and had arrived around

7.45 a.m and as a result the time of departure from Walawe was behind the

initially scheduled timer by one hour and 45 minutes. At around 10.50 a.m at

Palmadulla, the Petitioner and other Soldiers had asked the 1st Respondent to

stop the truck to have tea and the truck was stopped at Palmadulla till 11.40

a.m and they began the return journey by 11.45 a.m. While passing Pothuhara,

the driver stopped the truck to remove the water in the vacuum tank and at

that time, the Petitioner together with the other Petitioners of the connected

cases and another soldier had come near the 1st Respondent, and a petitioner

of a connected case had pulled the 1st Respondent by his uniform and had

uttered words of filth. Thereafter, there was an attempt to drag the 1st

13

f I

r ! I

II t I

t I I I ! r IIt! f I; f II III!If ,

1 1 " f I

~

L

.

~ .

•

Respondent out of the truck in order to assault him. The 1st Respondent and

his subordinate shouted at the R.S.M. to take control of this situation and to

disperse the gang which was eventually done and the Petitioner together with

his supporters retreated to the truck. This incident was immediately

communicated by the 1st Respondent to the commanding officer of the

Saliyapura Camp and by the 2

nd Respondent to the second-in-command over

the mobile phones.

Respondents state the directions by the 3rd Respondent, the Petitioners and

other Soldiers to make written statements of the events that took place was a

preliminary investigative inquiry and as per the standard procedure in the

Army, whenever an unusual or aggressive incident takes place, written

explanations are called from those involved in such an incident and based on

those statements, Army authorities decide what the appropriate course of

actions to be taken. Therefore, there is no procedural irregularity or illegality in

holding a Preliminary Court of inquiry into the incident according to the

Respondents. The Court of inquiry was convened in terms of the Army court of

14

inquiry regulations 1952 and it is also followed as a standard step in the

procedure leading to the investigation of the incident.

The Respondents have explained the matters of the court of inquiry as follows.

The court of inquiry was convened consequent to a convening order sent by

the commanding officer of the Sri Lanka Electrical and Mechanical Engineering

Regiment to which the concerned parties were attached and the court of

inquiry was commenced on 27.06.2012 and concluded on 05.07.2012. The oral

evidence of thirty witnesses were recorded and the Petitioners were given an

opportunity to ask any questions from the 1st Respondent with regard to the

incident. The court of inquiry was conducted following the rules of natural

justice. There was no formal charge sheet issued to the Petitioner at the court

of inquiry, since the charge sheet had to be formuled based on the findings of

court of inquiry. Respondents further clarify that the charge sheet P2 was

served on the Petitioner at the conclusion of the court of inquiry and the

summary trial was conducted based on the said charge sheet. On the

Petitioner's pleading not gUilty, witnesses were summoned and evidence was

15

•

led in terms of regulation 47 of the Army Discipline Regulation of 1950 and Sec.

43 of the Army Act. At the conclusion of the summary trial after analysis of all

the evidence the inquiry officer had found the Petitioner guilty of the charges

according to the Respondents.

According to Respondents the discharge of the Petitioner from military service

was a directive by the 10th Respondent in terms of regulation VIII (a) Table of

the Soldiers Service Regulations and was not a punishment culminating from

the summary trial. Therefore, Respondents move to dismiss the Application of

the Petitioner.

One of the main irregularities alleged by the Petitioner is serving the charge

sheet, conducting the summary trial and imposing the punishment on the ..

same day. The Petitioner has marked the charge sheet which includes the

conviction and the punishment as P2. P2 deals with two charges. The 1st is

under Sec. 299(2) (a) of the Army Act. The charge no.1I is under Sec.129 (1) of

the said act. The learned counsel for the Petitioner contended that both

charges are to be tried by the court martial and not by summary trial. ..

16

f 1 1 1 I I

' I I •. i

Therefore, he alleged that the Respondents have applied the Sec. 43,99 and

129 of the Act wrongfully. Yet, another complaint is that as per Sec. 129(2) of

the Act, no person shall be charged for any offence under Sec. 129(1) if any

special provision is made in any other section of the Act for such offence. The

learned counsel submitted that alleged offences framed against the Petitioner

as per the charge sheet marked as P2 clearly amounts to acting arbitrarily and

in ultra vires by the Respondents.

The learned Senior State Counsel who appeared for the Respondents

submitted that it is evident from the letter P1 that the charge sheet had been

served on the Petitioner prior to the date of P1 which is dated 03.03.2013 (a

Sunday). She further submits that however, the Petitioner has not made any

objection at the summary trial that the charge sheet was not served 24 hours

before the commencement of the summary trial. If such an objection had been

raised, the inquiry officer would have taken such into consideration and

accorded further time for the Petitioner to prepare for the inquiry submits the

learned Senior State Counsel.

17

The learned Senior State Counsel made the following submissions as against l

the allegation made by the Petitioner with regard to the charge sheet and the

summary inquiry. Sec.40 of the Army Act as amended by Act No.38 of 1990

I

refers to any offence that a person below the rank of a lieutenant colonel or is

. I

a soldier is charged with to be dealt with summarily by the authority

t

mentioned to in subparagraphs (b) (II) or (III) of Sec.40 (2) 1 of the Army Act.

The Petitioner of the instant case being a non commissioned soldier of the

army was tried summarily for the military offences charged against him under

Sec.40 (I) (b) (III) read together with Sec.42 of the Army Act as amended by Act

No. 38 of 1990.

Sec.40 (I) (iii) (b) substituted by the Act No.38 of 1990 is as follows.

(iii) Where that person is a soldier other than a warrant officer, either

deal with the case summarily, or refer the case to be dealt with

summarily by the commander of the army or by such officer not

.. below the rank of Colonel as may thereto be authorized by the

18 ..

commander of the army. Sec.42 which deals with punishments has

been amended by said Act by substitution the following sub Sec.(d)

where the accused is of a rank of sergeant or below, inflict on him all or any of

the following punishments:-

(i) Order him to be reverted to the rank or corporal if the accused is a

sergeant or to the rank of lance corporal if the accused is a corporal

or to the rank of private if the accused is a lance corporal.

It has been held in Mendis Vs Commander of the Army (2001 3 SLR 360) that in

the case of a non warrant officer it is not necessary to hold a formal inquiry

under the Army Act or to hold a court martial, since there is a clear discretion

granted by statute to hold summary trial and punish a soldier by reverting him

to the lower rank.

When considering the story of the Petitioner as a whole although there are

instances of great inconveniences and discomforts during the journey and the

situations thereafter, it appears that provisions of the Army Act have been

19

1 .

·

..

observed within the disciplinary procedure. Therefore, the court finds it

difficult to agree with the allegations of wrongful application of the provisions

of Army Act and of Respondents having acted arbitrarily and in ultra vires.

The other matter to be taken into consideration is the discharge of the

Petitioner from military service on a directive issued by the 10th Respondent. It

appears that there is no direct connection between the disciplinary inquiry and

the Petitioner's being discharged from military service. But, this court had

previously decided that the discharge of a soldier from the military service is

not a punishment arising from the court of inquiry or summary trial, but the

discharge based on Sri Lanka Soldiers' Service Regulation No.1 of 1994 on the

basis that his service is no longer required by the Sri Lanka Army.

(5. Sri Skandaraja J in CA/Writ/APP/I043/2008) It has been accepted that

discharge from Sri Lanka Army takes place in terms of clause (viii) (a) of Table A

of Soldier Service Regulation I of 1994 (2001 3 SLR 260).

Therefore, this court decides that there is no merit in the petition and as such

dismisses the petition without cost.

20

~ f 1 I

-

I ·

~

The parties in the applications bearing case numbers CA. Writ 100/2013, CA.

Writ 101/2013 are to abide by this order as this order is to be applicable in all

those applications. The Registrar of this court is directed to file a copy of this

order in all those applications.

Petition dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

21

I· t t

\ ,

II1 I i II f I I ,

i i

f