==== BLOCKS ==== 

I .

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 308 I 2000 F

D.C. Panadura No. 615/ L

Raigamage Darmadasa Perera,

15/6 "Muditha" ' ' Rukmal Mawatha, Paraththa, Keselwatta.

Plaintiff

Vs.

Raigamage Jinadasa Perera,

15/6 "Muditha" ' ' Rukmal Mawatha, Paraththa, Keselwatta.

Defendant

AND

AND NOW BETWEEN

Raigamage Darmadasa Perera,

15/6 "Muditha" ' ' Rukmal Mawatha, Paraththa, Keselwatta.

Plaintiff Appellant

Vs.

Raigamage Jinadasa Perera,

15/6 "Muditha" ' ' Rukmal Mawatha, Paraththa, Keselwatta.

Defendant Respondent

BEFORE

COUNSELS

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

T.R.S. Nanayakkara for the Plaintiff Appellant

H. Peiris for the Defendant Respondent

17.01.2013

18.03.2013

The Plaintiff Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant)

instituted the said action against the Defendant Respondent (hereinafter referred to

as the Respondent) in the District Court of Panadura praying for a declaration of

title to the land described in the schedule to the plaint.

On the date of trial the Appellant was absent in Court. The

Counsel for the Appellant had informed Court that he had no instructions to appear

and prosecute the case. Thereafter the learned trial Judge had dismissed the action

of the Appellant. Thereafter the Appellant had made an application to vacate the

said order of dismissal of the action. The Respondent had filed her statement of

objection to the said application. The learned District judge had dismissed the said

Application of the Appellant without giving him an opportunity to lead evidence to

establish reasons for his non appearance. Being aggrieved by the said order of

dismissal dated 19.05.1995 the Appellant had appealed to this Court.

The Court of Appeal set aside the said order of the learned District

Judge and sent the case back to the District Court to fix the matter for inquiry on

the petition and affidavit filed by the Plaintiff Appellant and to enable the

Appellant to lead evidence.

3

Thereafter the said application has been fixed for inquiry and the

Appellant has led evidence to establish his reasons for nonappearance on the trial

date. Thereafter the learned District Judge has dismissed the Appellant's said

Application to purge default. Being aggrieved by the said order dated 18.01.2000

the Appellant has preferred the instant appeal to this Court.

It appears from the proceedings of the case that at the aforesaid

inquiry the Appellant has led evidence to prove that on the relevant date he could

not come to Court due to his illness. In support of this fact the Appellant has

produced a medical certificate marked P 1. Said medical Certificate has been

proved by the evidence of the Doctor who had issued it. Said Doctor in his

evidence has said that he had given treatments to the Appellant. The Respondent

has not adduced any material to disbelieve the said evidence.

It is apparent from the alleged order that the learned District Judge has

dismissed the Appellant's application considering some contradiction in the

evidence with regard to the ailment of the Appellant. But he has not rejected the

medical certificate produced by the Appellant upon the said contradictions. If the

learned District Judge was of the view that the said contradictions were material

contradictions then the said medical certificate should have been rejected. He has

not done so.

In the said circumstances when I consider the said evidence it seems

to me that the learned District Judge without paying his attention to the provisions

contained in Section 87(3) of the Civil Procedure Code has dismissed the

Appellant's said Application. It must be noted that Section 87(3) of the Code has

4

not laid down such a simple procedure when an action is dismissed under Section

87( 1) of the Code. Subsection (3) of Section 87 read thus;

87(3) The plaintiff may apply within a reasonable time from the date of

dismissal, by way of petition supported by affidavit, to have the

dismissal set aside, and if on the hearing of such application, of which

the defendant shall be given notice, the court is satisfied that there

were reasonable grounds for the non-appearance of the plaintiff, the

court shall make order setting aside the dismissal upon such terms as

to costs or otherwise as it thinks fit, and shall appoint a day for

proceeding with the action as from the stage at which the dismissal for

default was made.

According to Subsection (3) if the court is satisfied that there are

reasonable grounds for the non-appearance of the plaintiff, then the court shall

make order setting aside the dismissal. Hence the duty of the trial judge is to

consider whether the evidence before him reveals reasonable grounds for setting

aside the dismissal.

In the said circumstances I am of the view that the learned District

Judge has erred in law in dismissing the action for non-appearance of the

Appellant. Hence I set aside the order of the learned District Judge dated

18.01.2000 and allow the appeal of the Appellant without costs. I direct that this

case be sent back to Panadura District Court to proceed with the trial expeditiously.

Appeal allowed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal