==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA Case No: C.A.999/98 F

Prathapage Somawathie, Karametiya,Kirama.

2nd Defendants Appellants Petitioner Vs. (1) M. Yasalin (2) M. Rosalin

Plaintiffs -Respondent-Respondent (1) Hawa Ambedolage Somawathie (2) P. Priyantha Ranjith Fernando (3) P. Gamini Siril Fernando (4) P. Kanthi Fernando (5) P. Prema Kanthi Fernando all are at Karametiya,Kirama.

Respondents

•

C.A. No. 999/98(FI D.C. Walasmulla Case No. 407/P

Before

Counsel

K. T. Chitrasiri, J.

Ronald Perera, P.C. with Nalin Amarajeewa for the

1 st and 2nd Defendant-Appellants

Asoka Fernando for the Plaintiff-Respondent and for the

3rd and 4th Defendant-Respondents

Argued &

Decided on 06.09.2013

K. T. Chitrasiri. J.

Having argued the appeal, both Counsel submit that the parties

have now arrived at a settlement of the disputes raised in this appeal, in the

following manner.

(1) The Judgment dated 08.10.1998 of the learned District Judge of

Walasmulla is to be affirmed. Accordingly, the shares allotted to the

parties in the aforesaid judgment are to remain as decided by the

learned District Judge.

(2) However, all the parties agree to amend the decision of the learned

District Judge, as to the plantations and the improvements found in

the land sought to be partitioned, as described herein below:

1

t

1I

I

(a) The plaintiff and the 3rd and 4th defendant- respondents are to

have the plantations found in the Northern portion of the

land depicted in Plan No. 719 marked "X" prepared by Ruban

Meegama, Licensed Surveyor.

(b) The plantations found in the Southern portion of the land

is to be given to the 1 st and 2nd defendant-appellants.

(c) The buildings shown in the aforesaid Plan No. 719 which are

situated within the southern portion of the land is to be

allocated exclusively to the 2nd defendant-appellant.

(d) The aforesaid allocation of the plantations and the buildings

found in the land sought to be partitioned is to be made without

any payment being made to any party to the action.

Subject to the above variations made to the judgment in respect of

the plantations and the buildings, this appeal is dismissed without

costs. Learned District Judge is directed to enter Interlocutory Decree

in terms of the Judgment having included the aforesaid terms of

settlement arrived at by the parties in respect of the plantations and

the buildings found in the land sought to be partitioned.

Appeal dismissed

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

2