==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 122/2000 (F)

D.C. Bandarawela No.5 / L

R.M. Jayasekera (deceased) R.M. Gunasiri,

'Saumyavila' , Amunudowa, Bandarawela.

Plaintiff Vs.

1. E.A. Gunasinghe, 2. E.A. Gunawathie, 3. E.A. Nandawathie, 4. E.A. Wijesinghe, 5. E.A. Janenona (deceased) 5A.E.A. Kumarasinghe, 6. E.A. Karunawathie, 7. E.A. Kamalawathie, All of Amunudowa, Bandarawela.

And Now Between

Defendants

1. E.A. Gunasinghe, 2. E.A. Gunawathie, 3. E.A. Nandawathie, 4. E.A. Wijesinghe, 5. E.A. Janenona (deceased) 5A.E.A. Kumarasinghe, 6. E.A. Karunawathie, 7. E.A. Kamalawathie, All of Amunudowa, Bandarawela.

Defendant Appellants

I

f

II

r,

~ !

t

f

j

j

t

\

i I j 1

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

Vs

R.M. Jayasekera (deceased) R.M. Gunasiri,

'Saumyavila' , Amunudowa, Bandarawela.

Plaintiff -Respondent

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

Defendant Appellants absent and unrepresented

Sunil Jayakody with Mohan Ratwatta for the

Plaintiff Respondent

28.06.2013

06.09.2013

The Defendant Appellants were absent and unrepresented on the date

of argument. It appears from the Fiscal's Report that 1 st 4th and 5th Defendant

Appellants have died. It also appears that even after the service of notice on the

said Appellants the heirs of the deceased 1 st 4th and 5th Defendant Appellants have

not shown due diligence in taking necessary steps for the purpose of prosecuting

this appeal. In the circumstances I dismissed the Appeal of the 1st 4th and 5th

Defendant Appellants without costs.

I now consider the appeal of the 2nd 3rd and 6th Defendant Appellants.

The Plaintiff Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the Respondent) instituted an

action against the 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th and 6th Defendant Appellants (hereinafter

referred to as the Appellants) in the District Court of Bandarawela seeking for a

II

\

!

~ 1 I

J

\

3

declaration of title to the land described in the schedule to the plaint and to eject

the Appellants from said land. The Appellants have filed an amended answer

denying the averments contained in the plaint and praying for a dismissal of the

Respondent's action. The case proceeded to trial upon 09 issues. After trial, the

learned District Judge has delivered a judgement in favour of the Respondent as

prayed for in prayer a, c and d of the plaint. Being aggrieved by the said judgment

dated 27.04.2000 the Appellants have preferred the present appeal to this court.

In paragraph 03 of the petition of appeal the Appellants have set out

several grounds of appeal. It seems from the said grounds of appeal that the main

grievance of the Appellants was that the learned District Judge has failed to

consider the evidence adduced on behalf of the Appellants. I now consider the said

grounds of appeal.

The Appellants have admitted the title of the Respondent. They have

claimed that they were the tenant cultivators under the Respondent. But the

Appellants have not produced documentary proof in order prove that they had been

registered as Tenant Cultivators.

When I consider the said evidence I am of the VIew that the

Appellants have failed to prove their position on a balance of probability. Hence I

see no reason to interfere with the judgement of the learned District Judge dated

27.04.2000. Therefore I dismiss the appeal of the Appellants without costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal