==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. 214/2008

Don Ranasuriya Arachchige Rohana Kithsiri

Accused -appellant

Vs.

H.C. Welikada Case No. 493/2006

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

Sisira J. de Abrew,J.

The Attorney General

Respondent

Sisira J. de Abrew,J. (Acting PICA) &

P.W.D. C. Jayathilaka,J.

Tenny Fernando for the accused-appellant

Rohantha Abeysuriya, DSG for the A.G.

11.02.2014

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

2

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted for being in possession of

43.1 grams of heroin and trafficking the said amount. The learned trial Judge after

trial, by his Judgment dated 19.12.2008, imposed Life Imprisonment on both

counts. Being aggrieved by the said convictions and the sentences, he has

appealed to this Court. Facts of this case as narrated by the prosecution witnesses

may be briefly summarized as follows. On 28.12.1998 around 9.30 - 10.00 in the

morning I P Liyanage of Narcotic Bureau went in front of the accused's house.

On seeing I P Liyanage the accused-appellant ran inside the house. Thereafter the

police party went inside the house. I P Liyanage found a parcel of heroin in the

shirt pocket of the accused-appellant. The accused-appellant gave evidence in

this case. The version of the accused-appellant is quite different from the version

of the prosecution. The evidence of the accused-appellant may be briefly

summarized as follows. On 28.12.1998 around 9.30-10.00 when he was sleeping

in his house, a person came and woke him up and took him to the front area of the

house. Thereafter the said person received a telephone call on his mobile. The

said person whom he later identified as I P Liyanage instructed two officers who

had come with him to jump over the wall which was behind the house of the

accused-appellant. Little later the two officers brought a parcel. I P Liyamige

thereafter questioned the accused-appellant as to the ownership of the parcel.

When he denied any knowledge of the parcel, I P Liyanage assaulted him. When

3

the wife of the accused-appellant shouted and told not to assault, I P Liyanage

assaulted her with an antenna wire which was the antenna wire of the adjoining

house. The accused-appellant, in his evidence, says that the two houses were

separated from a wall and the two houses were very close to each other. Wife of

the accused-appellant cursed the officers. This was the summary of the evidence

of the accused-appellant. The most important question that must be decided in

this case is whether heroin was found in the shirt pocket of the accused-appellant.

If there is any reasonable doubt on this matter accused is entitled to be acquitted.

According to the evidence of I P Liyanage, heroin was found in the shirt

pocket of the accused-appellant who was trying to jump over the wall which was

behind the accused-appellant's house. If this evidence is true, then there was no

necessity for I P Liyanage to go to the adjoining land. However, I P Liyanage" at

page 129 of the brief, admitted that he went to the adjoining land. This was the

land, according to the accused-appellant, that the two officers went, after I P

Liyanage received a telephone call. I P Liyanage, in his evidence, admits that he

went to the adjoining land and observed the height of the wall. According to him,

the height of the wall from the adjoining land is three feet and the height of the

wall from the accused's land is six feet. This shows that I P Liyanage had gone to

the adjoining land. If the heroin was found inside the shirt pocket of the accused-

1 ) j I

i I 1 I 1 1

1

~ I

i I ! I 1

4

appellant as claimed by I P Liyanage and the police party, there was no necessity

for I P Liyanage to go to the adjoining land. This evidence of I P Liyanage

therefore, creates a reasonable doubt in the version taken up by him. Further, this

evidence corroborates the position taken up by the accused-appellant in his

evidence. The accused-appellant says that two officers went to the adjoining land

probably after jumping over the wall and thereafter the two officers brought a

parcel in which heroin was found. The accused-appellant claims that this parcel of

heroin was foisted on him. Learned Deputy Solicitor General upholding the best

traditions of the Attorney General's Department informs Court that he too is

unable to understand as to why I P Liyanage went to the adjoining land.

It is interesting to find out the reason for the rejection of the evidence of the

accused-appellant by the learned trial judge. When I P Liyanage was giving

evidence, learned defence counsel suggested to him that I P Liyanage used a wire

to assault the wife of the accused-appellant. But when accused-appellant was

giving evidence he stated that I P Liyanage used an antenna wire to assault his

wife. The learned trial Judge observed the difference between the wire and the

antenna wire and proceeded to reject the evidence of the accused-appellant. This

was one of the grounds to reject the evidence of the accused appellant by the

learned trial Judge. The above ground, in our view, is not a ground to reject the

5

evidence of the accused-appellant. Learned D.S.G. too submits that he is unable

to agree with the said ground to reject the accused appellant's evidence. We are

pleased with this submission of the learned D.S.G.. I will now consider the other

ground adduced by the learned trial Judge to reject the accused appellant's

evidence. When I P Liyanage was giving evidence, learned defendce counsel

suggested to him that he came from the adjoining land. But, when accused-

appellant was giving evidence, he took up the position that while I P Liyanage was

questioning him, he ( I P Liyanage) instructed two officers to go to the adjoining

land and they brought a parcel. Therefore, it appears there is a discrepancy

between the suggestion and the evidence of the accused appellant. This was one of

the grounds to reject the accused- appellant's evidence. When we consider the

accused appellant's evidence, it appears that he had given consistent evidence on

this point. He says that I P Liyanage instructed two officers to go to the other land

and little later the two officers brought a parcel. We have gone through the

evidence of the accused-appellant. He has been subjected to lengthy cross-

examination. But in our view his evidence has not been shaken by the cross-

examination. When I consider the evidence of the accused -appellant, I hold the

view that there is no reason to reject the accused appellant's evidence. Learned

trial Judge without properly evaluating the accused- appellant's evidence rejected

his evidence on the above two grounds. The accused -appellant, in his evidence,

l

fl

6

admitted that he was a heroin addict. It appears that he had honestly admitted that

he had two previous convictions where he was fined RsAOOO/= (four thousand

rupees). Accused-appellant, in his evidence, stated that when he was taken to the

Police Narcotic Bureau he was suffering from the withdrawal of heroin and I P

Liyanage gave him six packets of heroin. It appears that he has honestly admitted

all these facts before the learned trial Judge. When we consider his evidence, we

hold that there is no reason to reject the evidence of the accused-appellant.

Learned trial Judge, in our view, was wrong when he reject the accused

. appellant's evidence. What is the position if the Court believes the evidence of

the accused appellant or is of the opinion that the evidence of the accused

appellant creates a reasonable doubt in the prosecution case? In this connection I

would like to consider the Judgment of His Lordship Justice T.S. Fernando in

Ariyadasa V s. Queen 68 NLR 66. His Lordship in the said judgment held thus:

1. If the jury believed the accused's evidence he is entitled to be acquitted.

2. Accused is also entitled to be acquitted even if his evidence though not

believed, was such that it caused the jury to entertain a reasonable doubt in

regard to his guilt.

f

I. tt

l

7

It appears that the learned trial Judge has not followed the said

principles. Courts, in evaluating evidence, should not look at the evidence

of an accused person with a squint eye. This view is supported by the

Judgment of the Indian Supreme Court in D.N. Pandey Vs. State of

Uththarapredesh AIR 1981 Supreme Court 911. Indian Supreme Court in

the said case held thus: "Defence witnesses are entitled to equal treatment

with those of the prosecution and, Courts ought to overcome their

traditional instinctive disbelief in defence witnesses. Quite often they tell

lies but so do the prosecution witnesses." It is the bounden duty of the trial

Judge who has the opportunity of observing the demeanor and deportment of

witnesses to come to the conclusion whether witnesses speak the truth or

not. As I pointed earlier, there is no reason to reject the accused appellant's

evidence. This means that the evidence of the accused-appellant was

capable of creating a reasonable doubt in the prosecution case. As I pointed

out earlier, the evidence of I P Liyanage creates a reasonable doubt in his

own evidence and corroborates the position taken up by the accused-

appellant. When I consider the above matters, I feel that it is unsafe to allow

the conviction to stand. For these reasons, I set aside both convictions and

the sentences and acquit the accused appellant of both charges.

tff

fi !!

•

Appeal allowed.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

I agree

JUDGE OF GTHE COURT OF APPEAL

Cr/-

8