==== BLOCKS ==== 

l I I 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 729 / 2000 F D.C. Ratnapura No. 6587 / L

Vitharamalage Don Edonis Uda Pebotuwa, Pebotuwa.

Plaintiff

Vs.

Rajapaksa Dewage Somaratne Rajapaksa, No 114, Ratnapura Road, Nivitigala.

Defendant

AND NOW BETWEEN

Vitharamalage Don Edonis Uda Pebotuwa, Pebotuwa.

Plaintiff Appellant

Vs

Rajapaksa Dewage Somaratne Rajapaksa, No 114, Ratnapura Road, Nivitigala.

Defendant Respondent

f

iIII

I!! t

f , I

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

S.N Vijithsingh for the Plaintiff Appellant

R.M.D. Bandara with C.L.W. Goonesekera

for the Defendant Respondent

25.10.2013

17.01.2014

The Plaintiff Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant)

instituted the said action against the Defendant Respondent (hereinafter referred to

as the Respondent) in the District Court of Ratnapura seeking for a declaration of

title and ejectment of the Respondent from the land described in the schedule to the

plaint. The Respondent filed an answer praying for a dismissal of the Appellant's

action. After trial the learned District Judge dismissed the Appellant's action

answering the issues No 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 in favour of the Respondent.

Being aggrieved by the said judgment dated 04.07.2000 the Appellant has

preferred the present appeal to this court.

The Respondent has raised issues No 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 claiming a

prescriptive title to the land in suit. The Appellant contended that the Respondent

has not adduced any evidence to prove a prescriptive title to the said land.

The learned District Judge has come to a conclusion that the

Appellant has failed to identify the land described in the deed bearing No. 26132

fi!t I

tI !

r I I

I

r t t

f It

3

(P 7) which was the title deed of the Appellant. According to the P 7 the land

depicted in Plan bearing No 05 dated 20.11.1966 made by S. Ramacrishnan,

Licensed Surveyor, was the land transferred by P 7. At the trial the Appellant has

produced a plan bearing No 05 dated 20.11.1976 made by S. Ramacrishnan,

Licensed Surveyor, marked P 1 which depicted partitioning of a land called

'Portion of Grand Central Estate'. The Appellant position was that Lot 42C

depicted in P 1 was the land depicted in P 7. According to P 1 the land had been

partitioned on 13.01.1978. Ifso such a land could not be transferred by P 7.

In the light of the said evidence I am of the view that the learned

District Judge was correct in concluding that the Appellant had failed to prove his

case on a balance of probability.

On the other hand the learned District Judge has concluded that the

Respondent has prescribed the land in suit. It seems from the said judgment that

the learned District Judge has come to the said conclusion upon the sole evidence

of the Respondent. According to the evidence of the Respondent he had derived

title to an undivided 1I6th share of a land described in schedules to the deeds

produced marked VI, V 2 and V 31. In his evidence the Respondent has stated

that his father commenced a tea plantation in the said land and he helped his father

since he did not go to school. Apart from that the Respondent has not explained the

nature of their possession of the land. There was no evidence to prove that the

Respondent or his father had commenced an undisturbed and uninterrupted

possession or a title adverse to or independent of that of the Appellant.

It was common ground that the Respondent's father had been m

possession of the land in suit as a co-owner. Since the Respondent also had entered

I ! I

II

rI f t II

4

In to the posseSSIOn of the land as a co-owner he cannot acqUIre title by

prescription to such property unless he get rid of character in which he commenced

to possess by doing some overt act showing an intention to possess adversely to the

Appellant. When there is a significant absence of clear and specific evidence of

such acts of possession as would entitle a party to a decree in his favour in terms of

Section 3 of the Prescription Ordinance, such a party cannot succeed on a plea of

prescription.

In the case of the government Agent, Western Province vs. Ismail

Lebbe (1908) 2 Weer 29 (Full Bench) it was observed that "where a person who

has obtained possession of a land of another in a subordinate character, e.g. as

tenant or mortgage, seeks to utilize that possession as the foundation of a title by

prescription, he must show that by an overt act, known to the person under whom

possesses he has got rid of his subordinate position, and commenced to use and

occupy the property ut dominus. "

G.P.S. De Silva CJ in the case of Sirajudeen and two oyhers vs. Abbas

(1994) 2 Sri L. R. 365 (SC), observed that" Where a party invokes the provisions

of section 3 of the Prescription Ordinance in order to defeat the ownership of an

adverse claimant to immovable property, the burden of proof rests squarely and

fairly on him to establish a starting point for his or her acquisition of prescriptive

rights ..... As regards the mode of proof of prescriptive possession, mere general

statements of witnesses that the plaintiff possessed the land in dispute for a number

of years exceeding the prescriptive period are not evidence of the uninterrupted

and adverse possession necessary to support a title by prescription. It is necessary

that the witnesses should speak to specific facts and the question of possession has

to be decided thereupon by Court. One of the essential elements of the plea of

)II I !

I

II

Il

I I i

i i

~ i ,

f I I

~

1

J I I

5

prescriptive title as provided for in section 3 of the Prescription Ordinance is proof

of possession by a title adverse to or independent of that of the claimant or

plaintiff. The occupation of the premises must be of such character as is

incompatible with the title of the owner."

The Respondent has not led evidence of any witnesses or has not

produced any supporting documents to prove that he has commenced a title

adverse to or independent of that of the Appellant.

There are two points regarding the law of prescription that should be

always well borne in mind; (1) a possessor is always presumed to hold in his own

right and as proprietor until the contrary be demonstrated; (2) the contrary been

once established, and it being shown that the possession commenced by virtue of

some other title, such as that of tenant than the possessor, is presumed to have

continued to hold on the same terms, until he distinctly proves that his title has

been changed. Hence no inference can be drawn from the evidence of the

Respondent with regard to a title adverse to or independent of that of the

Appellant. The Respondent's evidence as a whole does not show that his

possession was adverse in the sense that his possession is incompatible with the

title of the Appellant.

The learned District Judge has not address his mind to the said

requirements of Section 3 of the Prescription ordinance. Hence the issues No.9,

10, 11, 12 and 13 should be answered in the negative. Subject to the said variation

I dismiss the appeal of the Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

1,fI I t

II

}

\

!!