==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A 199/1998 (F) D.C Galle 11145

W. Vithanage Gnanawathie of Epitagederawatta, Kodagoda, Imaduwa.

PLAINTIFF

Vs.

10 Hawpe Liyanage Chandrasekera of Epitagedarawatta, Kodagoda, Imaduwa.

And Others

DEFENDANTS

NOW BETWEEN

Hawpe Liyanage Chandrasekera of Epitagedarawatta, Kodagoda, Imaduwa.

lOTH DEFENDANT-APPELLANT

Vs.

W. Vithanage Gnanawathie of Epitagederawatta, Kodagoda, Imaduwa.

PLAINTIFF -RESPONDENT

BEFORE:

COUNSEL;

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON;

GOONERA TNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J.

Sirimal D. Vithanage for the 1 01h Defendalil-Appellant

Ashoka Fernando with A.R.R. Siriwardena for the Plaintiff-Respondent

26.9.2012

31.01.2013

2

This is an appeal from a partition case from the Galle District

Court. Parties proceeded to trial on 7 points of contest and 4 admissions.

Corpus was admitted and parties admitted that the land is depicted as lot 'A'

is, 1 Rood 38.12 perches and 0.1849 Hectares. It was admitted that the

original owners of 'l4 of the corpus were Hawpe Liyanage Don Jamis,

Hawpe Liyanage Samolis and Ahangama Vithanage Jamis. There is no

dispute as to how the rights of original owners Ahangama Liyanage Caroline

:mel Vithanage Saineris devolved. The admissions recorded has in a way

helpeu tne Plaintiff-Respondent.

I do appreciate the submissions of the learned counsel for the

Plaintiff-Respondent who urge that the Petition of Appeal had been filed out

\

!

3

of time. The Petition of Appeal does not give a clear date except the seal of

the District Court bears the date 26.1.1998. Journal Entry No. 40 gives the

date as 24.3.1998, the date on which the Petition of Appeal tendered. If that

be so the Petition of Appeal need to be rejected, since judgment was entered

in November 1977. However I find the unsigned journal of the Court of

Appeal referring to the date of Petition of Appeal as 26.1.1998. On one hand

the original court had failed to maintain proper journals/records. The Court

of Appeal Registry has also, on the other hand has not given due notice to

the listing judge on the above lapses. If found to be incorrect the Petition of

Appeal should have been rejected, at the earliest opportunity. The Appellant

in his submissions has not explained the above position. As such on this

ground alone this appeal has to be rejected.

Nevertheless I have considered the merits of this case. The

Appellant inter alia urge the following:

1. The Appellant intervened the partition action as claimant before the Surveyor

and was added to the caption of the action as the 1oth Defendant.

Thereafter the 1

5\ 4th and ih to lOth defendants filed their statements of

claim dated 24th October, 1995.

2. In terms of the above-mentioned statement of claim 1st defendant and the 4th

defendant had no contest with the plaintiff. The ih, 8th, 9th and lOth defendants

have challenged the Plaintiffs pedigree.

; 'l

/

!i

fl!I

!l

lf I!rIrI! III

3.

4

As per the statement of claim of the ih to the 1 01h defendants, an undivided 'l'4

share was owned originally by Y apa Abeywardena Dona Gimhara who died

leaving Udukawe Yapagai Gimara.

The Petition of Appeal refer to certain grounds of appeal and it is

somewhat a different case to the case presented in the District Court. Such a

position cannot be maintained 1997 (2) SLR 109. It is evident that Plaintiff

produced deeds P 1 - P 14 and by that Plaintiff establish the basis of deriving

title (13/24). The said deed as urged by the Plaintiff-Respondent is ex-facie

part of the pedigree. Therefore I would reject the Appellant's contention that

Plaintiff has not established legal rights to 2/4 of the corpus. I agree with the

submissions of the Plaintiff-Respondent that the pleadings of 1st, 4t\ ih &

1oth Defendants does not seek to exclude any portion of the corpus. In this

regard the admissions recorded at the trial need to be considered and kept in

mind (corpus/lot A admitted). There is no points of contest raised on the

exclusion of land. All the admissions recorded in this case would contradict

the position of the Appellant in his attempt to find grounds of appeal.

Though the Appellant was able only to produce a photo-copy of

deed 10 V1 (rejected) the trial judge in his judgment has considered the deed

in his judgment.

\

t'i

5

There is no merit in this appeal. The trial judge has considered

the evidence led at the trial very carefully and entered judgment accordingly.

This court will not unnecessarily disturb question of fact. Primary facts

unless unacceptable need not be disturbed. Sumanawathie V s. Bandiya

2003(3) SLR 278.

In all the above circumstances of this appeal I see no basis to

interfere with the judgment of the District Court. I affirm the judgment of

the Disuict court.

Appeal dismissed with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Cd.:iJk~,-

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL