==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Case No. CA 479/96 F

D.C. (Trincomalee) 93/L

Before

Counsel

Sameer Hajiar

Noona Umma,

Ward 6, Kinniya.

Defendant-Appellant

Vs

Sameed Hajiar

Abdul Hameed

Hajiar,

Ward 6, Kinniya.

Plaintiff-Respondent

S.Sriskandarajah, J. (PICA) and

A. W.A. Salam. J.

Nizam Kariyapper for the defendant-appellant and

V Puvitharan for the plaintiff-respondent.

Written Submissions tendered on: 14.06.2011.

Decided on : 15.12.2011.

CA 479/96 F DC Trincomalee 931L Judgment 15.12.2011

A W Abdus Salam J.

This is an appeal preferred against the judgment of the

district judge of Trincomalee dated 31.5.96 granting relief to

the plaintiff in a possessory action. The facts relating to the

action briefly are that the plaintiff and the defendant are

siblings. According to the plaintiff the land in dispute had

been purchased by his father-in-law Asaman Magathum at

a fiscal sale and was granted a fiscal conveyance bearing No

6 dated 20. May 1914. Even though the title of the father-

in-law of the plaintiff is irrelevant to the action, the plaintiff

has attempted to justify his possession by virtue of his

father-in-Iaw's title. The simple complaint of the plaintiff ~s~

averred in paragraph 4 of the plaint is that the defendan~or'

about 24 March 1991 wrongfully and unlawfully taken

forcible possession of the subject matter.

The defendant having generally denied the averments in the

plaint, by way of defence maintained that she was In

undisturbed and uninterrupted possession of the land in

question for a period of well over 20 years and that she had

acquired a valid prescriptive title to the said property. The

relief sought by the defendant is the dismissal of the

plaintiffs action.

The matter of the dispute proceeded to trial on 8 issues of

which the first five were suggested by the plaintiff and the

2 CA 479/96 F DC Trincomalee 93/L Judgment 15.12.2011

rest by the defendant. At the trial the plaintiff gave evidence

and closed his case producing 4 documents. The defendant

also gave evidence and thereafter led the evidence of A.S.

Muththalif Hajiar and A.R.Segu Abdulla.

As far as the evidence adduced at the trial is concerned the

learned district judge has arrived at the definite finding that

the evidence of the defendant when compared with that of

Segu Abdulla is full of contradictions. Taking the evidence of

the defendant independently, the learned district judge has

commended that she is not inclined to accept her evidence

as being the true narration of the incidence relating to the

matter in dispute and the general background of the state of

affairs that existed in this area during the relevant period.

Having analyzed the evidence of both parties the learned

district judge has concluded that the version of the plaintiff

is more credible than that of the defendant. I am not

inclined to disturb the finding of the learned district judge

on the credibility of the witnesses, for she has had the

distinct privilege and opportunity of seeing the witnesses

testifying and had in fact observed the manner in which

they answered the questions put to them and the

demeanour they maintained during such exercise. Having

considered the totality of the evidence led at the trial, I am

unable to hold that the trial judge's findings touching upon

the credibility and testimonial trustworthiness, are

unjustified or erroneous. The learned district judge paying

attention to every careful detail to the testimony of the

witnesses has adversely commented on the contradictions

CA 479/96 F DC Trincomalee 93/L Judgment 15.12.2011 3

arising between the testimony of the plaintiff and that of

Segu Abdulla, as one of the grounds that influenced her to

rely on the plaintiffs evidence in preference to that of the

defendant and her witnesses.

The guiding principles relating to the approach towards the

manner in which the appellate court should view at the

findings relating to the credibility of witnesses and

questions of fact have been succinctly laid down in the case

of De Silva Vs Seneviratna 70 NLR 69. As the findings of a

trial judge on those matters are based upon the trial judge's

perception of evidence led at the trial, such findings are

entitled to great weight. They ought to be reversed only if it

appears to the Appellate Court that the trial judge has failed

to make the full use of his advantage of seeing and listening

to the witnesses.

In the present case when the judgment of the learned

district judge relating to the evaluation of the evidence is

even critically looked at, I am not satisfied that it deserves a

reversal based on the principle that it had ended up In a

miscarriage of justice.

When the impugned judgment IS carefully scrutinized, it

appears to me that the learned judge has fairly applied her

knowledge of men and matters and their patterns of

conduct together with the general customs, matters of

affairs and human reactions specially during the period

when there was absolute lawlessness in the area due to a

state of an ongoing civil war and the presence of Indian

4 CA 479/96 F DC Trincomalee 93/L Judgment 15.12.2011

peacekeeping Force. Hence, I am not inclined to subscribe

to the view that the learned district judge had erred in

rejecting the evidence of the defendant and accepting the

evidence of the plain tiff.

The next question that needs to be addressed is whether the

plaintiff had a legal basis to institute a possessory action

and emerge victorious over the defendant. To succeed in a

possessory action the plaintiff must prove that he was in

possession "ut dominus. In the words of Wood Renton, J.

who later adorned as the head of the judiciary stated in

Fernando et al vs. Fernando et al (13 N.L.R. 164 at 165) that

one must have possessed not alieno nomine, but with the

intention of holding and dealing with the property as his

own and a lessee who has entered into possession bona fide

under a lease is entitled to the possessory remedy even

though the lease may be technically defective, as he "had

possession "ut dominus.

A passage from the decision In Menike V s Dharmadasa is

worth reproducing so as to comprehend the true nature of

the possessory action. In that judgment reported in 50 NLR

125 Kanagaratna J explaining the nature of the possessory

action and its availability to various types of possession

stated as follows ...

"Possessory remedies were granted to persons who

had juristic possession. A person must have not

merely the corpus) but also the animus of

possession: the will coinciding with the physical

CA 479/96 F DC Trincomalee 931L Judgment 15.12.2011 5

relationship. A person not only holds the thing in

his hands, but intends to hold it for himself alone:

it is his intention to exclude every one else from

the thing. So far as the exclusion of others is

concerned, he holds the thing in just the same way

as if he were the actual owner, i.e., as if he had

legally sole control over it, whether he is really the

owner or not, and whether again, in the latter case,

he knows he is not the owner (as in the case of a

pledgee or a lessee [( 1938) 40 N. L. R. 41. ]) or

believes himself to be the owner (as in the case of a

bona fide possessor). Anyone who intends to

exclude every body else has the animus domini,

(the will of an owner), just as much as the owner

himself. The possession of the juristic possessor

entitles him to a legal remedy quite irrespectively of

his right [(1911) 14 N. L. R. 317.]".

On perusal of the evidence led at the trial and accepted by

the learned district judge, I do not think it is open to the

defendant to urge that the plaintiff had no animus of

possession. As is evident from the version of the plaintiff his

determination to be in possession of the subject matter has

coincided with this physical possession and that he had in

fact intended the property to be held in his hands, to the

exclusion of the defendant and all others. In other words his

possession was in just the same way as if he had legally sole

control over it, although he knew that his father-in-law was

the owner. As has been authoritatively stated in the decided

6 CA 479/96 F DC Trincomalee 931L Judgment 15.12.2011

cases anyone who intends to exclude every body else has

the animus domini, (the will of an owner), just as much as

the owner himself. The possession of the juristic possessor

entitles him to a legal remedy quite irrespectively of his right

[(1911) 14N. L. R. 317.].

For reasons stated above, my inclination certainly is to

justify the findings on which the learned district judge has

arrived at her judgment followed by the decree. As such, I

am compelled to dismiss this appeal.

Taking into consideration, the relationship between the

parties I make no order as to costs.

~. Judge of the Court of Appeal

I agree.

S.Sriskandarajah, J.

.~/ /<-~, President of the Court of Appeal

NT/-

CA 479/96 F DC Trincomalee 93/L Judgment 15.12.2011 7