==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A 641/98 F D.C Marawila Case No: 169/M.

Rathna Hettiarachchi No: 139, Mihidu Mawatha, Colombo 12.

Petitioner -Vs- M.K. Saimon Fernando “Sada Niwasa”, Waikkala.

Respondent

C.A 641/98 F.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED &

DECIDED ON

K. T. CHITRASIRI, J.

1

D.C Marawila Case No: 169/M.

K.T. Chitrasiri, J.

J.P. Gamage with Rasika Wellappili for the

Defendant-Appellant.

Plaintiff-Respondent is absent and unrepresented.

09.06.2014.

Plaintiff -Respondent is absent and unrepresented. Registrar of this court

has sent sev~ral notices under registered (;over to the Plaintiff -Respondent

and to his Attorney -at -Law inform.ing them to be present in this court.

When this appeal was taken on the last occasion it has been recorded

that the notice sent to the Plaintiff -Respondent had been returned. The said

notice and the cover in which this notice was sent to the Respondent, is

filed into the docket and it is marked as page No: (13). The envelop filed

with the said notice also is found in the docket and on the reverse of this

envelop it is mentioned that the addressee, namely the Plaintiff has left

the give:1 address and the premises given m the address is closed. The

notice sent to his registered Attorney R.M.S Rajapakshe has not been

returned. Accordingly, this appeal is taken up for hearing in the absence of

the Plaintiff -Respondent.

, 2

Heard the learned counsel for the Appellant. This is an appeal seeking

to set aside the judgement dated 06.10.1998 of the learned District Judge

of Marawila. By that judgment, the learned District Judge decided that the

Plaintiff -Respondent is entitled to the reliefs that he has prayed for, in the

plaint dated 22.11.1985. The reliefs so prayed in the plaint are to recover

a sum of Rs.61,513/- and the legal interest accrued thereto. The aforesaid

claim of the Plaintiff-Respondent has been made on the basis that the

Defendant has failed to pay the money for the building material supplied by

the Plaintiff to the Defendant-Appellant. In the plaint it is also stated that

the Defendant Appellant was in arrears in a sum of Rs. 61,513/- for the

supply of the said building material. The Plaintiff in his evidence has

stated the manner in which he sold the building material to the Appellant.

Finally, he has stated that the Appellant owed him Rs. 50,513/- as the

balance money for the goods that the Respondent has sold to the Appellant.

(Vide proceedings at page 96 in the appeal brief.) In support of his claim

he has marked the documents PI to P15.

The Appellant in his evidence has stated that he was prepared to pay the

money due to the Respondent (Vide the proceedings of page 125 in the

appeal brief). His position was that the goods that was purchased was not

for him but it was for the company in which he was a director. The

aforesaid position had been rejected by the learned District Judge. This

action had been filed in the name of the Defendant -Appellant in his

personal capacity. Therefore, I do not see any error in rejecting the said

I ,

I

\ 3

defence taken up by the Appellant. Accordingly, it is seen that the learned

District Judge has carefully considered the evidence of both parties and

decided the case in favour of the Respondent having assigned the reasons

thereto.

Even though the Appellant has taken up the defence of prescription in his

answer dated 23.02.1989, he has failed to raise an issue to that effect at

the trial. Therefore the merits of the said defence of prescription cannot be

considered at this appeal stage since it involves a question, mixed with

facts and the law. (Talagola V. Gangodawila Co-operative Stone Society

48 NLR 472, Jayawickrama V. David Silva 76 NLR 427, Dassanayake V.

Eastern Produce and Estates Co-Ltd 1986 (1) SLR 258). Accordingly, I do

not see any error in the findings of the learned District Judge. For the

aforesaid reasons this appeal is dismissed without costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUnGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

Vkgj-.