==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

"

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRILANKA

CA 908/96 F DC Colombo 3039/ZL

Before: A W A Salam J

MENIKGAMA ARACHCHIGE DON ANANDA, /

KELANIMULLA, another

ANGODA

SUBSTITUTE-DEFEDANT-APPELLANT

VS

and

KOLLUPITIYE SANGARAKKITHA

MAHINDA

THERO, Viharadhipathi and Trustee, KELANIYA RAJA MAHA VIHARA, KELANIYA

SUBSTITUTE-PLAINTIFF -RESPONDENT

COUNSEL: Dr SF A Cooray for the defendant-appellant and

G D C Weerasingha for the plaintiff-respondent.

Argued on: 21.07.2010

Written Submissions filed on: 13.09.2010.

Decided on: 23.04.2012.

A W Abdus Salam, J.

This is an appeal from the judgment dated 22.10.1996

of the district judge of Colombo declaring Kelani Raja

Maha Vihara as the owner of the subject matter of the

action and ejectment of the 2nd defendant therefrom.

The plaintiff came to Court as the Chief Incumbent and

Trustee of the Kelaniya Raja Maha Vihara and sought

to vindicate the title to the subject matter of the action,

to wit; the land and premises described in schedule 2

of the plaint, for and on behalf Kelaniya Raja Maha

Vihara. As has been pleaded by the plaintiff the land

set out in schedule 2 of the plaint is a portion of the

land more fully set out in schedule 1.

According to paragraph 3 of the plaint the land called

Muttettuwe Kumbura described in the 1 st schedule to

the plaint was granted and dedicated to the Kelaniya

Raja Maha Vihara long time back. Thereafter, Kelaniya

Raja Maha Vihara has prescribed to the said land. The

land which is the subject matter of this action is

morefully set out in schedule 2 of the plaint which is a

portion of the larger land described in schedule 1 of the

plaint. The 2nd defendant filed answer and admitted

certain averments in the plaint while denying the rest.

Quite significantly, on the day fixed for the hearing of

the action, the parties agreed as to the question of fact

2

and of law to be decided between them and they stated

them in the form of issues and thereafter the court

proceeded to determine the same. Whilst agreeing to

the issues to be determined, the plaintiff for reasons

best known to him, totally abandoned the claim as to

the ownership of the land set out in schedule 2 of the

plaint but framed his issues on the basis of leave and

licence. It is important to note that in suggesting the

issues the plaintiff has refrained from formulating the

question as to whether the land described in schedule

2 of the plaint is a portion of the land described in

schedule 1. It is well-established principle of law that

the pleadings recede to the background once issues are

framed under section 146 of the Civil Procedure Code.

(Vide Hanaffi Vs Nallamma 1998 1 SLR page 73 at page

77).

The issues suggested by the plaintiff are as follows ...

1. Is Kelaniya Raja Maha Vihara the owner of the land described in schedule 1 of the plaint? 2. As described in paragraph 4 of the plaint did the father of the defendant enter the land described in schedule 2 of the plaint, as a licensee with the permission of the Chief Incumbent? 3. Does the defendant wrongfully and unlawfully continue in occupation of the same causing damages to the plain tiff? . 4. If the above issues are answered in the affirmative, is the plaintiff entitled to the reliefs sought in the plaint?

From the above issues suggested by the plaintiff, it is

quite clear that the plaintiff has not made any attempt

3

/

to identify the land described in schedule 2 of the

plaint as a portion of the larger land described in

schedule 1. It is common knowledge that without

establishing title to the larger land described in

schedule 1 of the plaint, the plaintiff cannot succeed in

establishing his title to the land described in schedule

2 of the plaint. It is of paramount importance in an

action of this nature, to identify and establish the

identity of the subject matter and the title by adducing

clear evidence to obtain a declaration of title and

ejectment of the defendant.

As has been contended by the learned counsel for the

substituted 1 st defendant appellant, there being no

issue as to the title of the corpus of the action, namely

the land described in schedule 2 of the plaint, it is

hardly possible to identify the action as rei vindicatio

suit and hence the learned district judge has clearly

erred in law in granting a declaration of title to the

Kelaniya Raja Maha Vihara.

As regards the alleged admission made by the

defendant with regard to the ownership of the subject

matter, it must be remembered that the plaintiff did

not present his case on the basis that the defendant

was an overholding lessee. On the contrary the

plaintiffs case was that the defendant was the licensee

whose occupation of the property in question had

become wrongful by reason of his having asserted

4

rights to the subject matter. In such an eventuality, it

is not possible to resolve the dispute on the basis that

the defendant has admitted title.

The Viharadhipathy of a Buddhist temple, can sue for

the recovery of temporalities of the temple only if the

temple is exempted from the operation of section 4 (1)

of the Buddhist Temporalities Ordinance No 19 of

1931. On the other hand if a particular temple is not

exempted from the operation of section 4 (1) then the

resulting position would be that the Viharadhipathy of

that temple has no right to institute a suit in respect of

the temporalities of the temple.

The plaint in this case contains no averments to the

effect that the Kelaniya Raja Maha Vihara is or is not

exempted from the operation of section 4 (1). The

plaintiff has not asserted in the plaint nor is there an

admission or an issue that Kelaniya Raja Maha Vihara

is exempted from. the operation of section 4 (1) of the

Buddhist Temporalities Ordinance. The learned

counsel for the plaintiff has submitted a Photostat copy

of the book on Kandian Law and Buddhist

Ecclesiastical Law written by T B Dissanayaka and A B

Collin De Soysa to establish the exemption

contemplated under section 4 (1) of the Buddhist

Temporalities Ordinance. This in my opinion cannot

constitute proof of the exemption.

5

In the case of Dias versus Ratnapala Therunnanse

(1938) 40 NLR 41 it was held that an incumbent of a

Buddhist temple, which is not exempted from the

operation of section 4 (1) of Ordinance No. 19 of 1931,

is not entitled to vindicate title to land belonging to the

temple.

In terms of action 4 (1) of the Buddhist Temporalities

Ordinance which is applicable to the present dispute,

the management of the property belongs to a temple

shall be vested in the person/persons appointed as

trustee, unless the temple is exempted. Under section 4

(2) of the Ordinance, if the management of the property

belonging to a temple is exempted from the operation of

4 (1) but not exempted from the operation of the entire

Ordinance, shall be vested in the viharadhipati of such

temple. In this matter the plaintiff neither pleaded nor

did he put in issue the question relating to the

exemption under section 4 of the Ordinance. This being

a pure question of law, the learned counsel for the

appellant has raised the question as to the

maintainability of the plaintiffs action. In my opinion,

the objection raised with regard to the maintainability

of the plaintiffs action is with full of substance.

The plaintiff sought a declaration of title and ejectment

of the 2nd defendant from the land and premises

described in the second schedule to the plaint which is

6

a portion of the land described in 15t schedule.

It is trite law that the burden in a rei vindicatio action

is on the plaintiff to prove ownership to the subject

matter of the action. More so, when the defendant is in

possession of the corpus.

Recently in the case of Dharmadasa Vs Jayasena 1997

(3) SLR 327 this court was reiterative and persistent in

emphasizing that in an action for declaration of title,

the burden is always on the plain tiff to establish the

ownership as pleaded. It means that the defendant is

under no obligation to prove anything in such an

action. If the plaintiff fails to discharge the burden of

proof as expected of him, his action for the vindication

of title deserves no favourable consideration.

As has been pointed out by the learned counsel for the

contesting defendant the case for the plaintiff as

averred in the plaint was that the land in the 15t

schedule belongs to the plaintiff and the land in the 2nd

schedule was a part of that land. The plaintiff has

failed to prove that the land described in the 15t

schedule to the plaint was vested in the plaintiff. He

has not even put in issue, or even attempted to prove

that the land described in the 2nd schedule (which is

the subject matter of the action) is part of the land

described in the 15t schedule. He had given no evidence

whatsoever to prove it.

7

Had the learned district judge considered the issues in

the light of the above legal principles, he would have

had no alternative but to dismiss the plaintiffs action

for want of proof of title to the subject matter and

competence of the plaintiff to file action. As such this

court is bound in law to bring the impugned judgment

consistent with the principles of law enunciated

hereinbefore. In the circumstances, this appeal is

allowed and judgment of the district judge set aside. To

avoid a miscarriage of justice taking place, the learned

district judge is directed enter a decree of dismissal of

the plaintiffs action.

There shall be no costs.

Judge of the court of appeal

Kwkj-

8

\

J