==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 293 /2000 F

D.C. Kuliyapitiya No. 5384 / L

Rev. Wilakatupotha Sri

Seelanandabhidana, Chief Sanganayake of Pahala Dolospattuwa, (passed away) Rev.Nikaweratiye Mangala Thero, Viharadhipathy,

Swamabimbarama Rajamaha Vihara, U sgala, Kobeygane.

Substituted Plaintiff

Vs.

Wedanaidelage Signappu Naide alias Signappu, Kokkawilagama, Baladora Koralaya, Kobeigane.

Defendant

AND NOW BETWEEN

Rev.Nikaweratiye Mangala Thero, Viharadhipathy,

Swamabimbarama Rajamaha Vihara, U sgala, Kobeygane.

Substituted Plaintiff Appellant

Vs Wedanaidelage Signappu Naide alias Signappu, Kokkawilagama, Baladora Koralaya, Kobeigane.

Defendant Respondent

f I

!II

"

BEFORE

COUNSELS

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

Substituted Plaintiff Appellant- Absent and

unrepresented

Defendant Respondent- Absent and

unrepresented

13.12.2013

The Plaintiff instituted the said action against the Defendant

Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the Respondent) in the District Court of

Kuliyapitiya seeking inter alia a declaration that the land described in the schedule

to the plaint was a property belong to Swarnabimbarama Vihara, Usgala.

The Respondent has filed an answer denying the averments

contained in the plaint and praying for a dismissal of the Plaintiff s action. In

addition the Respondent has claimed title to the said land on prescription. The case

proceeded to trial on 07 issues. After trial the learned District judge has dismissed

the Plaintiffs action and has delivered a judgment in favour of the Respondent

upon prescription. Being aggrieved by the said judgment dated 20.06.2000 the

substituted Plaintiff Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant) has

appealed to this Court.

The Appellant has set out several grounds of appeal in the petition of

appeal. His position was that the learned District Judge has failed to consider the

3

fact that the property belong to Swarnabimbarama Vihara, Usgala was temple

property and thereby the learned District Judge has been misdirected on the facts

and law.

I have carefully considered the impugned judgment of the learned

District Judge and the evidence adduced at the trial. The Respondent has not

disputed the fact that the land in suit belong to Swarnabimbarama Vihara, Usgala.

Therefore it is clear that the said property is governed under the Buddhist

Temporalities Ordinance. Section 34 of the said Ordinance stipulates that "In the

case of any claim for the recovery of any property, movable or immovable,

belonging or alleged to belong to any temple, or for the assertion of title to any

such property, the claim shall not be held to be barred or prejudiced by any

provision of the Prescription Ordinance: Provided that this section shall not affect

rights acquired prior to the commencement of this Ordinance."

The Respondent has not led evidence to come within the proviso to

the said Section. Hence the Respondent's plea of prescription should necessarily

fail. In the said circumstances I set aside the judgement of the learned District

Judge dated 20.06.2000 and enter a decree as prayed for in the plaint. I allow the

appeal of the Appellant with costs.

Appeal allowed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

I

I