==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. Appeal No.900/98(F) D.C. Kurunegala No. 3416/P

Pushpa Henayalage Sitti Hidakaral Pokuna, Padeniya.

Appellant Vs. P.H. Kira Rathmale, Awlegama.

Respondents

C.A. Appeal No.900/98(F) D.C. Kurunegala No. 3416/P

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

K. T. Chitrasiri, J.

A.A.M.Ilyas with R. Abeysinghe for the 11A

substituted Defendant-Appellant.

P. Peramunagama for the Substituted Plaintiff-

Respondent

Thilak Wijesinghe for the 1st to 1Oth Defendant-

Respondnets.

23.07.2013.

K. T. Chitrasiri, J.

At this stage, learned counsel for the plaintiff-

respondent and the pt to lOth defendant -respondents agree to

allocate 30 perches of land in favour of the 11th -defendant. The

aforesaid 30 perches of land is to be demarcated from the land

where the two 2 sons namely Lensuwa Henalage Gedera Piyasena

(11A Substituted Defendant) and Lensuwa Henalage Gedera

Dharmadasa of the deceased 11th defendant-appellant are in

occupation. Counsel for the appellant submits that the said 30

1

perches of land is to be allocated to the aforesaid two sons of the

11th defendant in equal extents, as they are the two children of

the 11th defendant who arc living on the land.

Accordingly, the learned District Judge is directed to

enter interlocutory decree in accordance with the judgment dated

5th of June 1997 incorporating the terms of settlement referred to

above.

The commissioner is directed to prepare the final plan

according to the interlocutory decree so entered, having given the

access to the lands allocated to the said Piyasena and

Dharmadasa. However, the land that is to be made use of to have

access to Piyasena and Dharmadasa also should fall within the 30

perches allotted to the 11th defendant.

In view of the above settlement, the proceedings in this

court are terminated.

No parties are entitled to the costs of this appeal.

Proceedings terminated

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

jmds

2