==== BLOCKS ==== 

•

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A 20911998 (F) D.C.Ampara 232/L

A. R. Sumanawathie No. 30/97, Mayadunna, Kohombana, Ampara.

PLAINTIFF

Vs.

A. R. Dharmadasa Dematamal pelessa, Uhana, Ampara.

DEFENDANT

AND

A.R. Sumanawathie No. 30/97, Mayadunna, Kohombana, Ampara.

PLAINTIFF -APPELLANT

Vs.

A. R. Dharmadasa Dematamalpelessa, Uhana, Ampara.

DEFENDANT -RESPONDENT

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERA TNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J.

Athula Perera for the Plaintiff-Appellant

Defendant -Respondent absent and unrepresented

21.02.2012

16.05.2012

2

This was an action filed in the District Court of Ampara by the

Plaintiff seeking a declaration that she is the lawful permit holder of the

paddy land described in the schedule to the plaint and eviction/damages

against the Defendant-Respondent. The learned District Judge dismissed

Plaintiff-Appellant's action on the basis that Defendant has prescribed to the

land in dispute. Appeal arises from the judgment of the learned District

Judge dated 23.2.1998. Parties proceeded to trial on 11 issues. The permit

marked PI and letter Dl produced by Plaintiff and Respondent respectively

would be evidence in this case for all purposes of the law. Documents being

produced at the closure of each parties case without any objection.

3

The case of the Plaintiff-Appellant based on evidence led at the

trial was that:

(1) permit (P 1) bearing No. 22/157 issued in favour of Plaintiff-Appellant

in terms of the Land Development Ordinance. (Extent - 2 % Acres)

(2) Plaintiff's father was given a permit by the Government for 7 Acres.

He died on or about 1969.

(3) Permit for 2 % acres given by her father to Plaintiff-Respondent

which was regularised by the Government Agent (P 1 )

(4) Plaintiff worked in the paddy field till 1987.

(5) Plaintiff's son fell ill and had to be hospitalized in Kandy. As such

she permitted and requested the Defendant-Respondent to work the

field during her absence. Defendant was Plaintiff's brother.

(6) Defendant-Respondent refused to hand over possession

(7) Plaintiff complained to Government Agent and police about forceful

occupation of Defendant Respondent. No share of the corpus was

given by Defendant to Plaintiff although he agreed to give a share.

(8) Evidence in cross-examination indicates that the Plaintiff worked the

paddy filed along with her husband. During the father's life time her

husband had worked in the paddy filed with her late father.

Suggestion in cross-examination the Plaintiff never worked in the

paddy filed had been denied by Plaintiff.

(9) Permit not cancelled, and is in operation.

(10) Plaintiff's version supported by witness Indrasena Fernando from

Divisional Secretariat Office. Permit not cancelled.

4

(11 )There was a recommendation to issue a permit to the Defendant-

Respondent. No positive step taken to issue a permit. There is only a

recommendation (D 1) to issue a permit to Defendant, but not issued in

terms of the law.

Defendant-Respondent had given evidence and led evidence of

at least 4 other witnesses to prove possession. It was Defendant's position

that he has prescribed to the land in dispute.

The learned District Judge has relied on evidence of Defendant

and other witnesses regarding possession. District Judge accept the version

of the Defendant of possession at least 15 years. There is also reference to

the case of Wijesinghe V s. Kulatunga 61 NLR 223.

A Crown grant given under the provisions of the Crown Grants (Authentication)

Ordinance is not valid if it does not bear the signature of the "counter signing officer"

referred to in section 2(2). The fact, however, that the certificate bears the signature of the

Assistant Private Secretary to the Governor instead of that of the Private Secretary, is not

a ground for saying that the grant is bad on the face of it.

Where a Crown grant in respect of a field was given to certain persons in the year

1928 but the contesting defendants and their predecessors in title had sole possession of

the field from 1909 to 1947 without any acknowledgment of title in anyone else -

Held, that, in spite of the Crown grant, the contesting defendants had a good

prescriptive title.

5

Mere possession alone would not suffice. It is essential that a party who

relies on prescription prove and satisfy court that he has established the

essential ingredients in Section 3 of the Prescription Ordinance, i.e adverse

and independence possession. This aspect of the law does not seem to have

been considered by the learned District Judge. Further court should be

cautious where a permit has been issued under the Land Development

Ordinance, where such permit is not cancelled and is operative under the

Ordinance.

In all cases of prescription there must be a denial of title, an

exclusion of the contesting owner and an adverse possession. 6 CWR at 225.

In a case of this nature the starting point of possession must be clearly

established. Trial Judge seems to have ignored this aspect. There is also

evidence of consent and permission to cultivate given by the Plaintiff-

Appellant to Defendant-Respondent. Has any evidence transpired in court to

change such position and make it adverse? To this mere possession would

not alone establish a prescriptive right.

In Juliana Hamine V s. Don Thomas 59 NLR 546 per L. W. de

Silva J .... when a witness giving evidence of prescriptive possession and

states "I possessed" or "we possessed". The court should insist on those

6

words being explained and exemplified. 21 NLR 321 followed the above

dicta. (Full Bench). Thomas Vs. Thomas (1855-7 K & J. 79, 69 E.R 701)

English Court held. "Possession is never considered adverse if it can be

referred to a lawful title".

A person who wish to succeed in prescription must meet the

requirement of high order of proof to establish adverse possession, and it is

his burden to prove. Navaratne Vs. Jayatunge 44 N.L.R 517 when one gives

permission to possess, unless the possessor get rid of his character of

licensee by doing some overt act showing an intention to possess adversely,

no prescriptive rights could be established.

An allotee had sufficient title to bring a rei vindication action

56 NLR 407. On death of an allottee succession can only be in terms of the

Land Development Ordinance 62 NLR 213.

In the above circumstances I hold that the Defendant's evidence

led at the trial is not at all sufficient to prove prescriptive title. As such the

learned District Judge has erred on the question of prescription. Plaintiff

holds a lawful permit under the Land Development Ordinance which had not

been cancelled. Defendant cannot succeed since he does not have any

7

document to at least compare it with a permit issued under the Ordinance. I

set aside the judgment of the learned District Judge. Appeal allowed with

costs.

Appeal allowed .

. JJG~ ~ OF TJ~ OF APPEAL