==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA. l006/96(F) D.C. Kurunegala. 4546/L

M.A. Kiribanda No. 157, Jayanthipura, Battaramulla

Plaintiff

Vs

1. I.M. Ariyaratne, Grama Niladhari, Hangamuwa Palatha, Hangamuwa, Maeliya ,.

2. Attorney General, Attorney General's

Department, Colombo

12 Defendants

AND NOW BETWEEN

M.A. Kiribanda No. 157, Jayanthipura, Battaramulla

Plaintiff-Appellant

Vs

1. I.M. Ariyaratne, Grama Niladhari, Hangamuwa Palatha, Hangamuwa, Maeliya

2. Attorney General, General's Department,

Defendant-Respondent

Page 1 of 4

Before: A.W.A.Salam. J Parties absent and unrepresented. Argued on: 13.01.2011 Decided on: 07.06.2011

A W A Salam T

he Plaintiff-Appellant sued the

defendant-respondents by plaint dated 21 February

1994. By the said plaint the plaintiff-appellant claimed a

sum of Rs. 10,000/= from the 1st defendant-respondent

by way of damages caused by him to his property. For

reasons best known to the plaintiff-appellant he has also

made the Honourable Attorney General a party defendant.

However, quite surprisingly no relief has been sought

against the Attorney General. The 1st defendant-

respondent was represented by a member of the private

bar which indicates that the conduct of the defence on his

behalf has not been taken over by the Attorney General's

Department.

By order dated 5 September 1996 the learned

district judge upon being invited by the learned

State Counsel who represented the Attorney

General, discharged the 2"(( defendant-respondent from

the action. This appeal has been preferred by the

Plaintiff-Appellant against that order.

As a matter of law in terms of Section 18(1) of the Civil

Procedure code "The court may on or before the hearing,

upon the application of either party, and on such terms as

the court thinks just, order that the name of any party,

whether as plaintiff or as defendant improperly joined, be

struck out..."

In the case of Podihamy v. Seimon Appu (47 NLR 503), it is

laid dO'.vn that the court is not bound to dismiss an action

on the ground of misjoinder of parties and causes of action

and that it can strike out a wrongly joined defendant and

allow the action to proceed as against the others.

Section 14 of the Civil Procedure Code enacts that "All

persons may be joined as defendants against whom the

right to any relief is alleged to exist, whether jointly,

severally, or in the alternative, in respect of the same

cause of action and judgment may be given against such

one or more of the defendants as may be found to be liable,

according to their respective liabilities .............. "

In the light of the above provisions of the law there is no

obstacle in the way of the plaintiff to join as many

defendants as it pleases him if the right to any relief is

alleged to exist against all of them jointly, severally, or in

the alternative in respect of the same cause of action.

Therefore, when a plaintiff elects to sue more than one

defendant, he is obliged in law to plead in his plaint as to

the basis of his right, to sue the defendants.

As the plaintiff has failed to state in his plaint the basis on

which the Attorney General is answerable to the alleged

cause of action pleaded against him, the learned district

judge was correct in exercising his discretion to strike off

the Attorney General from being a party defendant in the

case.

In the light of the factual and legal background set out

above, it is my opinion that the Attorney General has been

improperly joined as a defendant in the caption as the

plaint contained no averments demonstrative of any right

to relief in respect of the same cause of action against the

A.G. Further, the plaintiff has not identified the capacity

In which the Attorney General has been joined as a

Defendant. As such, the impugned order of the learned

district judge warrants no intervention of this court by

way the exercise of the appellate jurisdiction of this court.

Appeal dismissed without costs.

ci~ .. Judge of the Court of Appeal

,.