==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I I j ! I j 1 1 I

I

\

l

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CASE- NO- CA (PHC)- 68/ 2009

PHC- AVISSAWElLA- 58/ 2007 REVISION

PRIMARY COURT OF KADUWELA- NO- 6731

Before K.T. Chitrasiri, J. &

P.R. Walgama, J.

Petition of Appeal against judgment dated

15.06.2009 delivered by the Provincial High Court

of the Western Province sitting at AVlssawella in

H.C. Avissawella Case No. 58/2007/Revision

Primary Court of Kaduwela Case No. 6731.

2. leslie Kumara Kariapperuma of "Wasana

Traders", Hewagama, Kaduwela.

1.

Party of 2nd Part Petitioner-Appellant

Vs-

Don leslie Marcus Amerasinghe of 167A,

Welivita, Kaduwela.

Party of 1st Part Respondent Respondent

Officer in Charge,

Police Station, Wellampitiya.

Informant Respondent Respondent

Counsel Dr. Sunil Cooray with Narmadha Nayanakanthi for the 2nd Party Petitioner

Appellant.

Srimal D. Witanage for the Respondent.

1

Argued on 02.02.2015.

Decided on 25.02.2015.

P.R. Walgama, J.

JUDGMENT

The Party of the 2nd Part Petitioner - Appellant (herein after some times called and

referred to as the party of the 2

nd Part) lodged the instant appeal sequent to the

judgment of the learned High Court Judge of Avissawella by which judgment, the

order of the learned Magistrate has been upheld. In effect the Party of the 1st

Part was placed in possession of the disputed property. Hence the Party of the

2nd Part has impugned the said judgment, and the order of the learned

Magistrate, whose order was upheld by the learned High Court Judge by the afore

said impugned judgment.

The instant matter relates to a land dispute as a result of which a breach of

the peace between the Party of the 1st Part and the Party of the 2nd Part is

threatened in respect of the said property.

The said matter was reported and an information was filed in Court by the OIC,

Wallampity Police, in terms of Section 66 of the Primary Courts Procedure Act No.

44 of 1979. Pursuant to the afore said report the parties had filed Affidavits to

establish their possession as required by the afore said Act. The learned

Magistrate after perusing the contents of the said affidavits and the exhibits

annexed thereto had arrived at the conclusion by the said order, that the Party

of the 1st Part has been dispossessed, within a period of two months prior to filing of

information in Court, and as such had placed the Party of the 1st Part in possession

accordingly.

2

1I I

I r II t i ! I

t

In the said impugned order the Learned Magistrate has adverted his attention to

the stance of the party of the 1st Part who asserts that the said party was in

possession for a long period of time and the Party of the 2nd Part has forcibly

entered the land in issue. It was observed by the Learned Magistrate that the

Party of the 2nd Part has purchased the said property and was in the process of

developing the same. It is against such activity of the part of the 2nd part the party of

the 1st part had made a complaint to the police. It is salient to note that a

matter of this nature this court is called upon to decide who was dispossessed of

the disputed land 2 months prior to the filing of the ir!form2tior. 1'1 CO'Jr~ Th<:!

purported dispute was reported to court by the police on 08.05.2007, and

according to the said report it was revealed that the Party of the 2nd Part has

disturbed the possession of the Party of the first part on 16.03.2007. Nevertheless it

is seen that the Party of the 2nd part has derived title form his predecessor only

on the 24th of March 2007.

It was also observed by the Learned Magistrate that the gramasevaka's report

marked as P3, reveals the fact that at the period relevant to this dispute non of

the parties had been in possession of the said premises bearing No. 166.

It is also pertinent to note that the information regarding the said dispute was

reported on 08.05.2007, and it was apparent that the Party of the 2nd Part has

forcibly entered the disputed land 16.03.2007, thus it is proved that the Party of

the 2M Part has dispossessed the party of the 1st part within two months prior to the

information was filed in court.

In considering the possession of the Party of the 1st Part prior to 16.03.2007, the

Learned Magistrate was of the view that according to the affidavits tendered by the

Party of the 1st Part that he had constructive possession of the said land in issue.

Therefore the Learned Magistrate has arrived at the conclusion that the Party of the 1st

Part has been dispossessed by the party of the 2nd part within 2 months prior to the said

information was filed in Court. The brief synopsis of the dispute that gave rise to the present

3

1I !

\ I

~ ,I I t ! i I

J ,

I f

adjudication, was as stated above. Taking in to consideration the facts placed before court, the

Learned Magistrate by his order has placed the Party of the 1st Part in possession accordingly.

Being aggrieved by the said order, the Party of the 2nd Part has preferred an

application by way of Revision to the High Court of Avissawella to have the said

impugned order to be vacated or set aside. After inquiring in to the Revision

application of the Party of the 2nd Part (the petitioner) the Learned High Court

Judge has by his order dated 15.06.2009, dismissed the Revision Application as

Petitioner has failed to aver the exceptional circumstance that warrants the said

Court to exercise its Revisionary jurisdiction.

The present application to this Court is by way of an appeal by the Party of the

2nd Part, for the relief, inter alia; that the judgment of the High Court dated

15.06.2009 and the order of Primary Court of Kaduwela dated 23.10.2007 be set

aside or reversed.

In the instant appeal the Appellant (the party of the 2nd part) had asserted the

following;

That the party of the 2nd part had repaired the house standing there on. But it is

salient to note that the document marked P3, the letter sent by Gramasewake is

to the contrary and had confirmed the fact that no body has been in occupation

in the said house.

The cardinal principle to be observed in resolving a dispute of this nature as

mentioned herein before is to ascertain which party was dispossessed 2 months

prior to the filing of the information in Court. At this stage would draw the

attention to the exhibit marked X10 A. According to the said document the Party

of the 2nd Part has purchased the disputed land on 24.03.2007. Therefore it is

crystal clear that the Party of the 2nd Part had forcibly entered the disputed land on

16.3.2007 and had dispossessed the party of the 1st part from the disputed land.

4

1

I

1 f

~ ! I I

( I I

i I l I!

An inquiry under the above section the Court will not embark on an investigation

of the title and rights of the parties to the disputed land. The said inquiry is

limited to ascertain the possession of the party who complains the dispossession

of the same. The salutary principle laid down in the above said inquiry, is

recognized by our Superior Courts, which has held thus; In the case of

RAMALINGAM .VS.THANGARAJAH, (1982) 2, SLR 699 His Lordship where he opined as

II the Magistrate is not to decide any question of title or the right to possession

of the parties to the land. Evidence bearing on title can be considered only when

the evidence as to possession is clearly balanced and the presumption of

possession which flows from title may tilt the balance in favour of the owner

and help in deciding the question of possession."

As per document marked PS the Party of the 1st Part has made a complaint to

Wellampitiya Police on 16.03. 2006, stating that the Party of the 2nd Part has

forcibly entered the land in question with another six people and was trying to

cause a survey of the said land. According to the above complaint it is apparent

that the Party of the 2nd Part has dispossessed the Party of the 1st Part, from the

disputed land.

Under section 68(3), "Where at an inquiry into a dispute relating to the right to the

possession of any land or any part of a land the Judge of the Primary Court is satisfied that any

person who had been in possession of the land or part has been forcibly dispossessed within a

period of two months immediately before the date on which the information was filed under

Section 66, he may make a determination to that effect and make an order

directing that the party dispossessed be restored to possession and prohibiting all

disturbance of such possession otherwise than under the authority of an order or

decree of a competent court."

5

i I I

f t I II: f I ! I t i i ,

Therefore in the above circumstances, it is abundantly clear that the Party of the 1st

Part has been dispossessed two months immediately before the information was

filed by the police under Section 66 of the Primary Courts Act.

In the said backdrop it is crystal clear that the Party of the 2nd Part by his own

admission has admitted that he gained title to the land in issue only on the

24.03.2004. Therefore the unequivocal position of the Party of the 1st Part was

that the party of the 2nd Part has dispossessed him from the land in suit immediately

two months prior to the information filed in the Magistrate court, which is a

mandatory requirement to succeed an application under Section 66 of the Primary

Courts Act.

The Party of the 1st Part has adverted court to various complaints made by him

to the police regarding the disturbances to his possession made by the Party of

the 2st Part, which is a proof of dispossession of the party of the 1st Part.

Under Section 68 (1) of the Act ... "Where the dispute relates to the possession of any land

or part thereof it shall be the duty of the Judge of the Primary Court holding the inquiry to

determine as to who was in possession of the land or the part on the date of

the filing of the information under Section 66 and make order as to who is

entitled to possession of such land or part thereof."

It is vital to consider at this juncture as to who was in actual possession of the

land in dispute. It was the stance of the party of the 2

nd Part, that although he

purchased the disputed land on the 24.03.2007, his predecessor in title had been

in possession of this land. It is intensely relevant to note that the predecessors in title of

the party of the 2nd part was the brother and the sister-in-law of the pClrt'1 of the 1

st ;J2!"t. It i~

alleged in the affidavit filed by the party of the 1st part that the disputed land was gifted by

deed No. 370 dated 22.8.1994 to him to enable him to obtain a loan. Therefore, it is said that

no beneficial interest was passed to the said predecessor in title of the party of the 2

nd part. In

6

1 , ! i i : I r I I

the above setting it is said that the predecessor in title was not in possession of the land in

dispute. Therefore, the party of the 2

nd part cannot claim possession of his predecessor in title.

It is viewed in terms of section 145 of the Indian Criminal Procedure Act that

the Magistrate has to decide "the fact of actual possession of the subject of

dispute". A similar opinion was expressed in the case of KANAGASABAI. VS.

MYLAGANAM,(78 .NLR. 280) wherein his Lordship has expressed thus;

"In an inquiry in to a dispute as to the possession of any land , where the

breach of the peace is threatened or likely under part VII of the Act, the main

point for decision is the actual possession of the land on the date of the filing

of the information under Section 66 but, where forcible dispossession took place

within two months before the date on which the said information was filed, the

main point is actual possession prior to that alleged date of dispossession."

The above principle was observed in the case of JOSEPH .VS. 0.1.e. KOTAHENA

(1986) 2 CALR 460.

The Learned Magistrate had also considered the document marked as P7 which is

a caveat filed by the Party of the 1st Part in order to prevent any alienation of

the disputed property.

The Party of the 2nd Part has also stressed the fact, that the court has failed to

observe the proper procedure in resolving the said dispute. In that it is said that the

Magistrate has failed to follow the mandatory requirement laid down in Sec. 66(6) of the said

Act. Nevertheless two judges of this court addressing their minds to the identical

issue in the case of MOHOMED NIZAM .VS. JUSTIN DIAS decided on 26.05.2011 had

viewed thus;

"The appellant in this appeal takes up the issue of jurisdict:cn Oi1!Y in

of Appeal. If the appellant or the respondent wants to take up the issue of

jurisdiction it must be taken up at the earliest opportunity."

7

I

~ , I

t t

I

f I !f

(

~ I I ! ,

~ I 1 f 1

1 I l I 1 I I I 1

Therefore in the above case Their lordships had given a vide interpretation to

section 66(6) of the above Act, and had held "that the Primary Court shall have

and is hereby vested with jurisdiction to inquire into the matter at the time the

information is filed under Section 66 (2)," which I see is more eloquent than the

interpretation given in the case of ALI.VS. ABDEEN in respect of section 66(6) of

the Primary Court Procedure Act No.44 of 1979.

Thus in the above exposition of the facts and law relating to the core issue of

the alleged dispute, this court is of the view, that the Learned Magistrate has

evaluated the same in the correct perspective, which has fortified his order. Hence

in the said backdrop it is abundantly clear that the appeal is devoid of merits

and should be dismissed accordingly, subject to a cost of Rs.10,OOO./

JUDGE OF THE COURT Of A??EAL

K.T. Chitrasiri, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

8

II

f

1

\