==== BLOCKS ==== 

;-

I •

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

High Court (Embilipitiya)

Case No: H.C.E.199/2006

CA 02/2008

In the matter of a petition of appeal in

terms of section 331 (1) of the code of

criminal Procedure Act No 15 of 1979

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

Lanka

(Complainant)

01. Hiniduma Dahanayakage Siripala

alias Kiri Mahaththaya

02. Henapita Gamage Shantha

03. Kandambige Piyarathne alias

Appuhami

04. Karivila Kandhage Upul

Priyashantha

Accused

01.Hiniduma Dahanayakage Siripala

alias Kiri Mahaththaya

Reka Stores Bare

Sudugalahena, Jandura,Panamura

1

I

1 1 i 1 J

BEFORE

COUNSEL

02. Henapita Gamage Shantha

Sisirs Stores Bare

Sudugalahena, Jandura,Panamura

Accused Appellants

The Hon Attorney General,

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

RESPONDENT

SISIRA J DE ABREW, J (P/CA)(Acting)

UPALI ABEYRATNE, J

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J

Indika Mallawarachchi for the 1st Accused

Appellant

2

Neranjan Jayasigha for the 2nd Accused

Appellant

Kapila Waidyaratne A.S.G for the

Respondent

Argued On 20.01.2014

Decided On 19.02.2014

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake J.

Accused Appellants along with two others have been indicted under Sec.296,

315 and 369 of the Penal Code for murder, grievous hurt and theft

respectively. Accused Appellants have been convicted for murder and

grievous hurt after trial and sentenced to death. Being aggrieved by the said

conviction and the sentence, Accused Appellants have submitted this appeal.

The argument raised on behalf of both the Accused Appellants was that they

have been denied a fair trial for the reason that the charges have not been

3

.""

explained to them and not been given an opportunity to plead for the charges

under Sec. 196 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act.

The Respondent has issued the indictment dated 03.10.2002 against the

Accused Appellants for committing the murder of Arachchige Premarathna

on 31.12.1997, causing grievous hurt to Kankanamge Hinnihami by stabbing

and committing the theft of Rs.5000 in the same course of action. Upon

receiving the said indictment High Court Judge of Rathnapura has ordered to

issue summons on Accused Appellants and other two accused. This order has

been made on 18.1 0.2002. On the summons returnable date namely

13.12.2002 four accused of the indictment were present before the Court and

the copies of indictment were served on them in open court of the High Court

of Rathnapura.

The relevant journal entry of the case record appears as follows;

A.

12.20.01

~.

3. D. dcoOmen

5/3

4

· ."

(page 10 of the brief)

The proceedings mentioned in thatjoumal entry appear in the page 35 of the

brief. Said proceedings appear as follows;

AA.

~es.lc.o; 2002.12.13

~ei))(S)c.o 2003.03.05 ~U5) ~es.lD 83c.o® CD6®.

2002.12.13.

5

~-

05.03.2003 was the 1st date of trial. All four Accused and witnesses No: 1,2,

4 and 5 were present and it was ordered to re-issue summons to witness No: 3

and also to summon a jury. Witnesses present were warned to appear on the

next date and trial postponed to 19.05.2003. The relevant journal entry of the

original record appears as follows.

5.3.2003.

~/

1,2 em qz;rn.

~e5)(S)('" 19.05.2003

6

The 2

nd trial date was 19.05.2003. All accused and witnesses No: 1, 2, 4 and

5 were present on that day. Court ordered to issue summons to witness No: 3

and summon a jury. Trial was postponed for 03.09.2003.

Defense Counsel filed a list of witnesses for the Accused on 12.08.2003 and

moved to issue summons on the witness. Court ordered to issue summons

accordingly.

On next three trial dates namely 03.09.2003, 29.09.2003 and 19.01.2004

Accused and the same witnesses were present while witness No: 03 was

absent. Another list of witnesses had been filed by the Defense Counsel on

03.05.2004.0n 29.09.2003 an application had been made to Court to try the

case without a jury and the said application had been allowed.

The trial was postponed for the reasons recorded as well as not recorded up to

the 10th trial date according to the record namely 26.06.2006 on which day

the accused and witnesses were informed to appear before the High Court of

Embilipitiya as this case came within the territorial jurisdiction of that newly

established court . The examination of the witnesses commenced before the

High Court Judge of Embilipiya following two postponements of the trial in

that Court as well. By then the prosecution witnesses who were present

before the Court on trial dates had been warned at least fourteen times.

Beginning of the proceeding of 19.06.2007 appears as follows;

6)~ (f0tll)C,O ;-~~.B.O. 199/2006

~C,O ;- 2007.06.19

1,2,3, ~~rn&3 s".

7

IIi I

· -,

ot®i53@@ ®e)~®e)e5S oo®CS q~8)~ g5»)es) q~~® ®ts)0» ®08>

SC).

The prosecution case has been closed on 24.07.2007 after leading evidence of

witness No: 1 to 5 and marking the productions No: 1 to 4. An application

had been made on behalf of the Accused Appellants to discharge them under

Sec.200 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act without calling the

defense for the reason that prosecution had not proved the case beyond

reasonable doubt. Learned Trial Judge rejected the said application after

hearing the submission and decided to call for the defense. As the trial had

been adjourned for the said purpose on 18.09.2007, Accused Appellants had

made dock statements and closed their case on the next trial date. When the

case was called on 07.01.2008 for addresses, the Trial Judge who so far heard

the case had been transferred and the case had been called before the

succeeding High Court Judge. It has been submitted on behalf of the Accused

Appellants that they had no objection for the adoption of proceedings which

took place before the predecessor and the judgment to be pronounced by the

succeeding High Court Judge. Accordingly the new High Court Judge had

decided to adopt the proceedings and pronounce the judgment after the

addresses. The judgment of this case had been pronounced on 21.01.2008

after the addresses of prosecuting counsel and the defense counsel.

8

\

f

~

'-

General procedure of a trial before High Court has been provided in chapter

XVIII of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act. The role of a High Court

Judge, when the indictment is received has been provided in Sec.195.

Causing the Accused to appear before the Court and serving a copy of the

indictment along with its annexes on each of the Accused, inquiring from the

Accused whether the trial be conducted with or without a jury, are the

fundamental duties.

It is now a well settled Law that the said jury option should be given directly

to the Accused irrespective of the fact that whether they were represented or

not by an Attorney at Law. It is the discretion of the Accused that should

choose either a jury trial or a non jury trial. Failure to give jury option to the

Accused necessarily causes setting aside the entire proceedings with an order

for a re-trial in an appeal against a conviction. According to the provisions

that follow, Accused shall present themselves before the Court at the

commencement of the trial, the indictment shall be read over and explained

to him and the Accused shall be asked whether he is guilty or not of the

charges.

Right of the Accused to a fair trial and qualities of a fair trial have been

discussed in the case of Attorney General V. Aponso (SC Appeal No:

2412008). It has been emphasized among the other matters that the right of an

Accused person to be informed of promptly and in detail in a language he

understands of the nature and cause of the charge against him, and that the

trial judge to inquire from the Accused at the time of the serving the

indictment whether or not the Accused elects to be tried by a jury.

Vithanage Gunawardane V. Attorney General (CA 2212002) is a case in

which the counsel who appeared for the Respondent accepted the fact that the

charge has not been read and explained to the Accused Appellant.

9

~

\

r .

\

j I

1

Accordingly the Court of Appeal has set aside the conviction and the case

was sent for a retrial.

This case has been followed in the case, Vijesingha Rajakaruna and another

V. Attorney General (CA 206-207/2010).

In that case Respondent has cited an English decision, namely, R V.Williams

reported in 1977(1) AER at page 874. It is a case where the court has decided

where an accused intended to plead not guilty, the omission of a formal

arraignment and consequent failure to take a plea did not vitiate the trial

provided that a plea of not guilty had been vicariously or tacitly conveyed or

a formal arraignment had been impliedly waved by the accused. The Court of

Appeal has not accepted this decision. Reason given is that the procedure

adopted in English Court was much different to the procedure adopted in Sri

Lanka.

In Kodituwakku V. Republic, (CA Appeal No: 144/2005 - 2010(BLR) 167)

it has been decided by Justice Sisira De Abrew & Justice Upali Abeyratne

that

a. Before the commencement of the trial, the accused must be asked

whether he is guilty or not guilty of the charge. This is a

fundamental requirement in criminal Law.

b. The right to plead guilty or not guilty to the indictment is a statutory

right given to an accused person which must be safeguarded by

courts.

According to the provisions of Law and the judicial precedents, it leaves no

room for trial judges to flout the above pre-trial requirements. Failure to

10

i IIl i

fulfill anyone of them leads to a nullification of the entire exercise. The

responsibility of this is entirely attributed to none other than the trial judge.

The procedure followed by the trial judges of the instant case has been

discussed earlier. The proceedings of 13.12.2002 deserve the attention to be

paid once again.

The knowledge as to how this practically takes place in a trial court is much

more important than what is found in books. Not a single trial judge himself

reads and explains indictments to the accused in our courts. It is always done

by the interpreter who is an officer of the court appointed by the judicial

service commission for that purpose. Similarly no trial judge record

proceedings other than making journal entries. Recording the proceedings is

done by the stenographers appointed by the judicial service commission for

that purpose.

One journal entry and proceedings thereof have been quoted in this judgment

as A and AA. Journal entry A is relevant to the proceeding referred to as AA.

Journal entry A is stated in two parts. First part of it which is in bold type is

an entry by the subject clerk. The second part is the note made by the trial

judge in his own hand writing.

The nature of these entries differs from judge to judge. Some are in detail

while others in brief. This particular journal entry is a brief one. For his

convenience there is a request to refer the proceedings. Those proceedings

which have been marked as AA in this judgment are prepared by the

stenographer, who takes notes in shorthand in open court and transformed in

to typewriting form in the office. It is forwarded for the judge's signature on

a later day. When careful attention is paid to the aforesaid proceedings, it

transpires, what actually has happened on that day. It shows that the judge

11

I l I

I I I 1 I ! I I I i

• has performed the duties and practices laid down in Sec. 195 (a) to 195(g) of

the Code of Criminal Procedure Act.

First he has served the indictment with annexes to the Accused. Next he has

followed Sec. 195( e). Thereafter he has nominated an assign Counsel

following Sec. 195(g).

Even though there is no mention about inquiring from the Accused whether

they elect a jury or not, that objection has not been raised for the Accused

Appellants because the fact that there is an order to summon a jury implies

that it has been actually inquired. The judge has followed Sec. 195 (d) by

making an order to release the Accused on bail bonds that they had already

entered.

The trial judge has further followed Sec.l95 (c) by informing the Accused of

the date of trial. This has gone to the record in the proceedings recorded by

the stenographer as "the trial fixed for 05.03.2003". The judge has stated,

''vide proceedings" in his hand writing in the journal entry made on

05.03.2003 which was the 1st date of trial. The said clause, "vide

proceedings" which appears in the original case record is not included in the

brief. There is no need for the trial judge to mention this clause unless he has

followed Sec.196 on that 1 st date of trial.

The learned Additional Solicitor General appeared for the Respondent

opposed to the application made for the Accused Appellants. He made

submission on relevant sections of Code of Criminal Procedure Act with

regard to the commencement of the trial. According to Sec. 196, if the

Accused tenders a plea of guilty and the judge is satisfied that the Accused

has accurately realized the effect of the plea the said plea shall be recorded

and the Accused could be convicted. Provided that Accused remain silent or

plead not guilty of the charges a trial shall be conducted. Accordingly three

12

Ir

• options are available to the Accused under Sec. 196 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure Act at the commencement of the trial,

Namely

(a). To admit the culpability by tendering a plea of guilty.

(b). To remain silent without tendering a plea.

(c). To tender plea of not guilty.

To choose the 1st option more likely leads to a conviction and to choose 2nd

and 3rd options necessarily result in facing a trial.

It must be noted that only in the Sec.197 necessity arises to record the "plea"

on the indictment if the Accused tenders a plea of guilty. But where the

Accused pleads "not guilty" or remains silent, recording is not a requirement.

What is to be done is accused to be tried. Learned trial judge who had taken

up the case on, 19.06.2007 has acted under Sec.l98 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure Act, as Accused were ready to face for the trial. Thus it is evident

that what is to be done has been correctly followed in this case. That is why

the learned counsel who had appeared for the Accused in the trial court has

taken early steps to get ready for the trial by filing several lists of witnesses.

At the time of the adoption of proceedings before the new trial judge, the

learned counsel who had appeared for the Accused had been courteous

enough to request the court to note the fact that the Accused had requested

the court to try them without a jury and withdrawn their 1 st application to try

before a jury. It is evident that this particular request confirms that no

irregularity had taken place during the cause of the trial proceedings.

13

IIi

t I

I

\

j I

\ \ \

\ \ \

Hence non appearance of certain words in relevant proceedings of the case

record it should not be interpreted to give the effect that the indictment was

not read and explained to the accused which necessarily results in the

nullification of the entire trial proceedings. Nullification of proceedings done

on a technical matter which leads to a retrial is only harassment to the

affected parties by enlarges is an injustice to the society.

Since the reasons discussed above are such, I am of the view that, there is no

merit in the preliminary objection raised for the Accused Appellants as a

ground of appeal. I therefore dismiss the application made on the preliminary

objection.

Application dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

UPALI ABEVRATNE, J

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

14

Ii I

I I f !

II !

I t ! { i I I i J