==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

C.A.(Writ} Application No. 674/2010

1

In the matter of an application under Article 140 of the Constitution for mandates in the Nature of Writ of Mandamus.

1. Muthukumaru Kathiravelu, Hospital Road, Chankanai.

PETITIONERS

Vs.

1. Emelda Sukumar, Government Agent, District Secretariat, Jaffna.

2. The Divisional Secretary, Valigamam West, Chankanai.

3. K. Lalithambal, Grama Niladhari, Chankanai Centre -J 181, Chankanai.

4. Geological Survey & Mines Bureau, Senanayake Building, No.04, Galle Road, Dehiwala.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued On

Decided On

P. W. D. C. Jayathilake J.

5. Thambithurai Rajeev, Project Coordinator, Maheswary Foundation, No.110, 4th Cross Street, Jaffna.

RESPONDENT

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J

M.A. Sumanthiran with Jannita

Arulananthan for the Petitioner.

Abdul Najeem for the sth Respondent.

17.01.2013

28.03.2013

The petitioner Muthukumaru Kathiravelu was in need of 3 tractor

loads of sand for the purpose of repairing his wall and well area. On his

making an application (P1) to the 3rd Respondent K. Lalithambal, Grama

Niladhari, the recommendation was obtained for the purchase and

2

removal of sand and also obtained the recommendation of the 2nd

Respondent Divisional· Secretary for the said purpose. On submitting the

said application to the Divisional Secretariat Valigamam West Chankanai,

Petitioner was given 18th October 2010 as the date on which he should call

over, after making payments to an organization called Maheswary

Foundation. He came to know that the said Foundation has been collecting

money from those in need of sand and that the 1st Respondent Emeldar

Sukumar, Government Agent of Jaffna and the 2nd and 3rd Respondents do

not issue permits unless the applicants make the said payments and

produce receipts. The petitioner found out that one has to pay Rs :

13,500.00 for 3 tractor loads of sand to the sth Respondent Thambithurai

Rajeev, the Project Coordinator of Maheswary Foundation, and that the

royalty cost due to the 4th Respondent is only Rs : 286.20.

The petitioner states that every application under the Mines and

Minerals Act No.33 of 1992 (as amended) shall be made to the Geological

Survey and Mines Bureau (the 4th Respondent) in relevant form and it shall

contain required particulars and shall be accompanied by documents as

described with the prescribed fee. Petitioner complains that he has been

compelled to make an illegal payment to the sth Respondent's Foundation

who acts as brokers in the transaction of obtaining of the licence to

transport sand. The petitioner's contention is that the conduct of the

Respondents in this regard is a violation of the provisions of the Mines and

Minerals act and thereby unauthorized, illegal and Ultra Varies. Therefore

petitioner seeks the mandate in the Nature of Writ of Mandamus to

3

compel the 1st ,2nd and 3rd Respondents to adopt the procedure

established by Law in issuing licence to transport sand and a mandate in

the Nature of a writ of prohibition restraining Respondents from,

compelling applicants needing sand transport permits to make payments

to the 5th Respondent.

4th and 5th Respondents have filed objections against the petitioners

application.

While stating the powers vested to the 4th Respondent by the Mines

and Minerals Act it has taken the position that it has acted in good faith

and in compliance with the relevant provisions stipulated in the Mines and

Minerals Act and the Regulations made there under.

According to the objections filed by the 5th Respondent the

Maheswary Foundation has obtained licence from the 4th Respondent to

engage in mining and selling of sand to the public in Jaffna with a view to

providing job opportunities to a large number of unemployed people and

also to ease the difficulties of those engaged in construction activities

finding uninterrupted and regular supply of sand at a reasonable price.

Further emphasizes that in the past public faced numerous difficulties in

obtaining sand for construction activities due to various reasons including

paying ransom to the L TTE. In the statements of it's objections sth

Respondent has explained the way that Maheswary Foundation supply

sand to the public.

4

Petitioner's complaint is that the Respondents have deprived

petitioner's of the right of collecting sand on payment of royalty which is

entitled under the normal Law. The compulsion of the practice adopted to

supply sand through the sth Respondent is a violation of Law and thereby

illegal. The sth Respondent while admits the fact that his organization is

engaged in mining and trading of sand under the lincence issued by the 4th

Respondent which was marked as 4R2 stating that the petitioner is not

entitled in Law to seek the writ of Mandamus against the sth Respondent

since the 5th Respondent is not performing any public duty.

Petitioner has prayed for a mandate in the Nature of a Writ of

prohibition restraining the Respondents from compelling the applicants for

transport permits for sand to make payments to the 5th Respondent

and/or the Maheswary Foundation. It has been submitted on behalf of the

petitioner that there is no legal requirements whatsoever under the

Mines and Minerals Act or regulations requiring any other payment to be

made to any other party for the purchase and removal of sand. It has been

argued that the exercise of non-existing power is a nullity, by citing

Gnanaprakasam V. Sabaratnam 1943 44 NLR 159. The 5th Respondent has

admitted that the Maheswary Foundation was engaged in mining, trading

and transporting sand. But as stated in the objections of the 4th

Respondent an industrial mining licence has been issued to the sth

Respondent for a period of 1 year but said licence has not been renewed

thereafter. This fact has not been denied by the 5th Respondent. As it is

obviously the fact revealed before this court is that the public in Jaffna has

5

faced the same situation in another form which they had faced in the past,

as mentioned in the objection file by the sth Respondent. There is no

wrong of 5th Respondent's organization in engaging in mining and selling of

sand to the public in Jaffna with a view to providing job opportunities to

unemployed people. But it has no legal right to intervene with the public

duties. Therefore the fact that compelling the public by the 1st, 2nd and 3rd

Respondents to make payments to the 5th Respondent in order to obtain

licence to collect sand which has not been denied by said Respondents,

cannot be justified by the purpose stated by the sth Respondent.

The main relief that has been asked by the petitioner is a writ of

mandamus to compel the 1st , 2nd and 3rd Respondents to adopt the

procedure established by Law in issuing licences to transport sand. If the

1st , 2nd and 3rd Respondents follow the procedure according to Law, it

automatically stops them from compelling the public to make payments to

any other organization which is not entitled to accept such payments.

Therefore the need of issuing a writ of prohibition in that regard does not

arise. Even though the payments made by the public to 5th Respondent's

organization have been done on the direction of the 2nd Respondent, as

those payments appear as voluntary payments on records and the sth

Respondent's organization is not a public body, this court agrees with the

submissions made by the learned counsel for the sth Respondent, that the

petitioner is not entitled in Law to seek the relief sought against the 5th

Respondent's organization. Therefore this court issues a writ of mandamus

6

r I

to compel the 1

5t , 2nd and 3rd Respondents to adopt the procedure

established by Law in issuing licences to transport sand.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

7