==== BLOCKS ==== 

f 1

J

I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL

OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. NO.1114/98 (F)

D.C.HAMBANTOTA

CASE NO. 1669/M

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

SUBMISSIONS

DECIDED ON

Ceylon Petroleum Corporation

No.113, Galle Road

Colombo 03.

Plaintiff-Appellant

Vs.

H.M. Sugathadasa

No.85, New Town

Kataragama

Defendant-Respondent

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J.

W.M.M.MALINIE GUNARATNE,J.

Arjuna Obeysekera, DSG for the Plaintiff-Appellant

Gamini Marapane, P.C. with Navin Marapane and U.Wickremasinghe for the Defendant-Respondent

22.07.2014

Not filed

05TH SEPTEMBER 2014

1

,I I I i I

CHITRASIRI, J.

1 I I

1

Plaintiff-Appellant in its plaint dated 29.03.1988, having disclosed

seven causes of action alleged to have arIsen for the supply of petroleum

products to the defendant, has prayed that a decree be entered to recover a

sum of Rs.264,090.49 from the defendant-respondent. The respondent in his

I I I answer, except for the matters as to the jurisdiction of the Court, has merely I

denied the averments in the plaint without explaining the matters relevant to

j I I

those seven causes of action which of course, he is entitled in law to do so.

In the answer, the respondent has made a counter claim as well. It had

! been made on the basis of the cancellation of the respondent's agency, had

with the appellant to sell its products. Learned District Judge dismissed the

said counter claim of the respondent. No appeal is preferred to challenge the

dismissal of the counter claim. Hence, the decision to dismiss the counter

claim of the defendant-respondent would stand as it is.

The appeal before this Court is to canvass the judgment, wherein the

learned District Judge declined to grant the reliefs prayed for in the plaint

filed by the plaintiff-appellant. It was submitted by the learned D.S.G that the

reason for the dismissal of the plaint is basically the refusal by the trial judge,

to accept the contents in the invoices marked Al to A7 and the cheques

marked B 1 to 87 as admissible evidence, for the purpose of this case. He

2

j 1 I l

therefore contended that the learned District Judge misdirected himself when

he declined to admit in evidence, the contents of those documents marked Al

to A7 and Bl to B7.

Mr.Marapane p.e. then submitted that those documents were marked

subject to proof since the person through whom those were produced in

evidence was not the person who authored those documents. Accordingly, he

contended that the learned District Judge is correct when he declined to

accept the contents of those documents as evidence admissible since those

have not been properly proved as required by law.

Learned District Judge was of the opinion that it is necessary to call the

authors of the invoices and the persons who issued the cheques, if the

contents of those are to become admissible evidence. Such a conclusion is

evident by the reasons assigned in the impugned judgment where the learned

District Judge has stated that the cheques marked B 1 to B7 could not have

been the cheques issued by the defendant. (vide proceedings at page 120 in

the appeal brief)

Remaining reason assigned by the learned District Judge to reject the

evidence in the invoices and the cheques is the failure to mark the documents

Al to A7 and Bl to B7 in evidence at the closure of the plaintiffs case. (vide

proceedings at page 121 in the appeal brief) Accordingly, having relied upon

the decision in Sri Lanka Ports Authority and another Vs Jugolinija-Boat

3

tI

IIII

It

f I 1 l I I 1

East, [1981 (1) Sri.L.R.18] he has decided that the contents of those

documents cannot be treated as admissible evidence since those documents

were not marked in evidence at the time the plaintiff closed its case.

Admittedly, at the time those documents namely, the invoices and the

cheques were marked in evidence, Counsel for the defendant had insisted

that those be marked subject to proof and in fact it was done so. Learned

State Counsel who appeared at that stage also has kept silent without

addressing his mind to the issue. Learned trial judge too, without looking at

the question of admissibility of evidence in those documents, has allowed the

stenographer to record the objection merely because an objection has been

raised. Apparently, no reason IS found as to why those documents were

allowed to mark subject to proof.

Admittedly, the person who gave evidence producing those documents

IS not the person who issued the invoices or who signed the cheques.

However, he being the officer dealing with those matters in the appellant

corporation has clearly stated that those cheques have been signed by the

defendant-respondent. He is a person who is familiar with the signature of

the defendant and the matters pertaining to invoices. His evidence so

recorded has gone into the record, unchallenged. Significantly, no questions

have been put to the witness by the defendant-respondent at least denying

the signature appears on those cheques. Moreover, there was no dispute at

4

I I I

.1 I

j I I ! i 1

~ I 1 1 ! I i I 1 I I j ) ; I

~ I I , I I I I i I I

all as to the dishonuoring of those cheques by the Bank. Therefore, the only

conclusion that could have arrived at, is that the signatures in the cheques

are of the defendant. Under those circumstances, what other proof IS

necessary to establish that those are the cheques issued by the defendant?

The said witness for the plaintiff also has stated that the defendant had

been assigned with the No.1141 by the appellant Corporation to identify the

respondent as one of its agents. Having said so, he has further stated that the

goods referred to in those invoices had been delivered to the defendant after

having perused those invoices. No questions were put to the witness by the

Counsel for the defendant denying those facts. Such evidence cannot be

rejected on the basis that the documents in which those matters are found

were marked subject to proof at the time those were marked in evidence.

As mentioned hereinbefore, learned District Judge also has relied upon

the decision in Sri Lanka Ports Authority and another v. Jugolinija-Boat

East (supra) when he declined to accept the invoices and the cheques, as

admissible in evidence. In that decision the Supreme Court has held that if

the documents referred to in evidence were not marked at the time the parties

closed their respective cases, then the contents of those documents cannot be

treated as evidence in the case. However, the manner in which the

defendant's case has commenced in this instance may have prevented the

plaintiff to mark those documents at the closure of its case. In fact, nothing is

5

l i i

I i t i I I 1 ! 1 j I i I I

I

recorded to state that the plaintiff has closed its case formally. When the

order was made refusing an application to call another witness by the

plaintiff, the defendant was directed to commence his case preventing the

plaintiff-appellant to close its case formally.

Under those circumstances, the learned District Judge should have

carefully considered the circumstances that has taken place at the time the

defendant was directed to commence his case and then he could have

distinguished the facts of this case with that of the facts in the case of Sri

Lanka Ports Authority and another v. Jugolinija-Boat East (supra) when

he applied the law referred to therein. Furthermore, ratio decidendi in that

case is that if no objection is raised at the closure of the plaintiffs case to

mark the documents that were marked subject to proof, then those

documents that were marked subject to proof will have to be admitted in

evidence. In that decision Samarakoon C.J. has held thus:

"If no objection is taken, when at the close of a case documents are read

in evidence, they are evidence"

In this instance no such objection has been raised by the defendant. In

the circumstances, it is incorrect to decide that the invoices and the cheques

that were marked subject to proof were not properly proved.

Learned D.S.G. submitted that the explanation found to explain the law

referred to in Section 154 of the Civil Procedure Code should have been

6

1 i 1 i j I I

1

1 j t I I i 1

J I ! I I

followed by the learned District Judge in this instance and accordingly he

could have admitted the invoices and the cheques in evidence in this

instance. The aforesaid explanation to Section 154 of the Civil Procedure

Code states thus:

''upon a document being tendered, if the opposing party objects to

its being admitted in evidence, then two questions arise for the

Court to decide;

Firstly, whether the document is authentic - in other words, IS

what the party tendering it represents it to be; and

Secondly, whether, supposing it to be authentic, it constitutes

legally admissible evidence as against the party who is sought to

be affected by it."

In that explanation, it is also stated that if the Court is of opinion that

the testimony adduced for the purpose of authenticity, which had been

developed and tested by cross-examination, makes out a prima facie case of

authenticity and is further of opinion that the authentic document is evidence

admissible against the opposing the party, then court should admit the

document.

Manner in which the aforesaid provision in law is to be interpreted had

been discussed by Saleem Marsoof, J in Lateef and another Vs Mansoor

and another. [S.C.Appeal No.104/05] In that decision, it was emphasized

that the authentic document is considered as evidence admissible against the

opposing party.

7

I ;

1 I I

As mentioned hereinbefore, authenticity of the documents marked Al

to A 7 and B 1 to B7 was not been questioned and neither was it in dispute.

The witness for the plaintiff, he being the accountant in charge in the credit

control division of the appellant Corporation, has clearly stated that the

defendant is an agent appointed by the Corporation assigned with a unique

number for the purpose of selling its petroleum products. He has identified

the invoices marked A 1 to A 7 as the invoices by which the goods involved in

this instance have been delivered to the defendant. Those documents were

produced in evidence through a person who has the custody of those

documents. Those have been issued in the course of duties entrusted to the

officials of the appellant-Corporation. It is not disputed that the cheques were

returned unrealized. Contents of which also was never been questioned

either. Accordingly, authenticity of the documents that were marked subject

to proof was not at all in dispute.

In the circumstances, the invoices issued by the appellant should have

been considered as admissible in evidence under Section 154 of the Civil

Procedure Code despite the fact that those were marked subject to proof.

Under those circumstances, it is clear that the learned District Judge

misdirected himself when he decided that the plaintiff has failed to prove

those invoices and the cheques, as required by law.

Learned President's Counsel for the respondent referring to Section 114

of the Civil Procedure Code submitted that no document could be placed on

8 ifti

! ii I

I I 1 I I I

~

record unless it has been proved or admitted, in accordance with the law of

evidence. Accordingly, he argued that those documents that were marked

subject to proof cannot be accepted as evidence in this case. His argument is

that when the Court has insisted proving of those documents according to

law, then those should be considered as not proved.

As described before in this judgment, learned District Judge could not

have decided that the plaintiff has not proved those documents merely

because it had been marked subject to proof. It is a question of law involved

in this instance. Hence, it is clear that the learned District Judge has

misdirected himself as to the law particularly the law referred to in Section

154 of the Civil Procedure Code when he rejected the contents of the

documents marked Al to A7 and Bl to B7.

Accordingly, it is my opinion that the contents of those documents

tendered to Court are to be considered as evidence in this case. When the

evidence contained in those documents is considered, it is abundantly clear

that the defendant-respondent has failed to pay the money due to the

plaintiff-appellant for the goods he has purchased that are reflected in the

invoices marked Al to A7. The Cheques marked Bl to B7 show that those

cheques, issued by the defendant at the time the goods were delivered to him

had been dishounored. Therefore, I decide that the plaintiff is entitled to the

reliefs prayed for in its plaint dated 29.03.1988.

9

For the reasons mentioned above, I allow this appeal and set aside the

judgment dated 10.08.1998 of the learned District Judge. Learned District

Judge in Hambantota is directed to enter decree accordingly. Plaintiff-

appellant is entitled to the costs of this appeal as well as the costs in the

court below. I i I

Appeal Allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M.MALINIE GUNARATNE, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

10

t,t

I

I! ,I,

!t

\

J

ll