==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

1 j 1 I 1

, 1

~

1 \ 1 1 1 I I I

1 I I I ,

; 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

T.P. Neel Abeyratne

Accused -Appellant

C.A. Appeal No. 134/2008

H.C. Badulla No. 233/2003

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

Sisira J. de Abrew. J.

Vs.

The Republic of Sri Lanka

Respondent

SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J. &

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA, J.

W.D. Dharmasiri Karunaratne for the

Accused -A ppellan t.

Wasantha Nawarthna Bandara D.S.G. for

the Attorney General.

08.07.2013.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

1

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of

!

! !I

I

f,f i tJ

2

Liyanaarachichige Podi Hamine, Hema Wasantha Wijesuriya,

Jayanthi Wickremasinghe, Indrani Wickremasinghe, Dayawathie

Wickremasinghe, and Nuwan Wickremasinghe and was sentenced

to death. He was also convicted of robbery of wrist watch from the

possession of Indrani Wickremasinghe (one of the deceased

women) and robbery of a pair of earrings and a sari pin from the

possession of Dayawathie Wickremasinghe (one of the deceased

women). According to the prosecution, both robberies have been

committed at the time he committed the murder of 6 persons.

Being aggrieved by the said convictions and the sentence the

accused-appellant has appealed to this court.

Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as follows:

The accused-appellant was an army soldier. He was, at the time of

the incident, attached to Walimada Army Camp. On 11th of

December 1989 around 10.00 p.m. Jayasekara, one of the army

soldiers working with the accused-appellant, complained to the

senior officers in the army camp that his gun was missing. When

he came back after dinner to his dormitory he found his gun

,

I I !

3

mIssmg. The authorities immediately conducted an inspection

and came to the conclusion that Jayasekara's gun was missing

from the army camp and that the accused-appellant was also

missing from the army camp. They further found that the gun

issued to the accused-appellant was in the dormitory of the

accused-appellant. The time was around 10.00 p.m. Around 2.00

a.m. in the following morning when the accused-appellant came to

the army camp, the officer at the gate and other senior officers

found that gun issued to J ayasekara was with the accused-

appellant. The senior officers of the army camp also found 2

empty cartridges with the accused-appellant. They also found that

26 cartridges In the magazine attached to the gun had been

used. The senior officers of the army camp also found the smell of

gun powder emanating from the barrel of the gun. This indicates

that the gun had been used little while ago. When the senior

officers searched the accused-appellant, they also found three

wrist watches, one pair of earnngs and a sari pin in the

possession of the accused-appellant. It has to be noted here that

the said three watches, the pair of earrings and the sari pin were

later identified by witness Padmini as the items belonging to the

house of the deceased women Jayanthi, Indrani and Dayawathie.

Padmini was one of the sisters of the said three deceased women.

\ !

I

.' I r f III

4

Government Analyst's confirmed that the 2 empty cartridges

found in the possession of the accused-appellant had been fired

from the gun found in the possession of the accused-appellant at

the time he entered the army camp (2.00 a.m. ) in the morning.

This is the gun that hand been issued to soldier Jayasekera. This

was the situation that was prevailing in the army camp between

10.00 p.m. to 2.00 a.m. I will now state what happened outside

the army camp.

Around 1.00 a.m. in the morning (12th December 1989), the

accused-appellant went and knocked on the house of Podi

Hamine who was the one of the deceased women in this case. She

was living in a village called Ella which is some miles away from the

Army Camp. Rathnayake who is a nephew of Podi Hamine

opened the door. Thereafter the accused-appellant took Podi

Hamine out of the house. Rathnayake identified the accused-

appellant. But it has to be noted here that no identification parade

had been held. According to Ratnayake the duration of the time

that he saw the accused-appellant is about 15 minutes. According

to Ratnayake, after the deceased women Podi Hamine was taken

out of the house he heard two gun shots. Ratnayake found that his

aunt Podi Hamine lying fallen in a pool of blood a little away

5

from the house. The accused-appellant according to the

prosecution evidence, did not stop at this place. He thereafter

went to the house of Jayanthi, Indrani, and Dayawathie which

was situated less than one mile from the house of Podi Hamine.

Gunapala and Mahindapala who were living In the adjoining

houses of Jayanthi, on hearing that somebody knocking on the

house of Indrani became vigilant. Little later they heard several

gun shots inside the house of Indrani. When they open the door

they saw the accused-appellant inside the house of Indrani where

five dead bodies were lying fallen. According to Gunapala, the

accused-appellant shot at him but he did not sustain any

InJunes as he felt that the bullet was passing near his ear. Police

found 13 empty cartridges in the house of Indrani. Government

Analysts confirmed that the 13 cartridges had been fired from

the gun which was taken into custody from the possession of the

accused-appellant. Both Gunapala and Mahindapala had seen

the accused-appellant at the scene armed with the gun. They also

had seen two other people but they were not armed with any

weapons.

\ t l ! i

f

\

\

6

Learned Counsel appearIng for the accused-appellant contended

that the identity of the accused-appellant had not been established

as no identification parade had been conducted after the incident.

In our view although no identification parade had been conducted,

there is evidence to establish his identity as the jewellery found in

the possession of the accused-appellant had been identified by

Padmini as the jewellery belonging to the house of Indrani.

Further prior to shooting at Podi Hamine's home Ratnayake spoke

to the accused-appellant for about 15 minutes and he pleaded

with the accused-appellant not to take his aunt as she was having

a four moths old baby. Therefore there was a good opportunity for

him to identify the accused-appellant. According to Padmini the

pair of earrings, the sari pin were used by her and her three sisters

Jayanthi, Indrani, and Dayawathie. Three watches found in the

possession of the accused-appellant too had been identified by

Padmini as the watches belonging to her family.

When we consider all these matters, we are of the opinion that the

identity of the accused-appellant had been established beyond

reasonable doubt. The accused-appellant denied the incident in

his dock statement.

7

When we consider the evidence led at the trial, we are of the

opinion that the all charges levelled against the accused-appellant

had been proved beyond reasonable doubt and there is no reason to

interfere with the judgment of the learned trial Judge.

For the above reasons, we affirm the convictions, the death

sentence and the sentences imposed on counts 7th and 8th and

dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

/mds

1i I i