==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA 279/98 (F) D.C. Ratnapura Case No.7528/P

Padukkage Dona Cicilina Hamine Dammoruwa, Colombugama, Nivitigala.

Plaintiff Vs. 1. I.A. Wimalasene 2. M.A. Podiappuhamy 3. M.A. Jayawardena 4. M.A.Sumanawathie 5. A. Siripala 6. A. Rosalin Nona 7. Yasawathie 8. A. Somapala 9. K.D. Saranelis Singho 10. I.A. Lokuappuhamy 11. H.M. Heenmenike.

Defendants

BETWEEN 11. Hewa Magalgodage Heenmenike Owilana, Colombugama, Nivitigala.

11th Defendant-Appellant Vs. Padukkage Dona Cicilina Hamine Dammoruwa, Colombugama, Nivitigala.

Plaintiff-Respondent And 6. A. Rosalin Nona Owilana, Colombugama, Nivitigala.

6th Defendant-Respondent

C.A 279/98 (F) D.C.Ratnapura Case No: 7528/P

Before K.T.Chitrasiri, J.

Counsel 11th Defendant -Appellant is absent and unrepresented.

Argued &

Decided on

Saman Liyanage for the Plaintiff -Respondent.

04.03.2013.

K.T.Chitrasiri, J.

When this matter was mentioned on the last occas10n

namely, 18.12.2012 Counsel for the Appellant informed Court

that the 6th Defendant -Respondent is dead. He was then directed

to file substitution papers, two weeks before today. When this fact

of death of the 6th Defendant was mentioned even on the

18.06.2012, Counsel for the Appellant was directed to file

substitution papers. So far no substitution papers have been filed

to substitute the heirs of the deceased 6th Defendant.

In the circumstances, it is clear that the Appellant is not

taking steps to substitute the heirs of the deceased 6th Defendant-

- 2-

Respondent. Without having the substitution effected, this appeal

cannot be taken up for argument. It is the duty of the appellant.

Therefore, Court makes an order abating the appeal. Appeal IS

abated and therefore, proceedings in this court are terminated.

Registrar is directed to keep the original record in this Court

for a period of two months from today and then to send the record

back to the District Court of Ratnapura for necessary action.

Proceedings are tenninated.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Vkg/-