==== BLOCKS ==== 

CA/HCC/0037/2022

1 | P a g e

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an Appeal made under

Section 331(1) of the Code of Criminal

Procedure Act No.15 of 1979, read with

Article 138 of the Constitution of the

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

Lanka.

Court of Appeal No: Hettiarachchige Ishara Shehan Perera

CA/HCC/0037/2022

High Court of Chilaw ACCUSED-APPELLANT Case No. HC/47/2018

Vs.

The Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo-12

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDENT

BEFORE : P. Kumararatnam, J.

R. P. Hettiarachchi, J.

CA/HCC/0037/2022

2 | P a g e

COUNSEL : Anil Silva, PC with Anjana Abeyratne for

the Appellant.

Wasantha Perera, DSG for the

Respondent.

ARGUED ON : 08/06/2026 DECIDED ON : 07/08/2026 *******************

JUDGMENT

P. Kumararatnam, J.

The above-named Appellant was indicted by the Attorney General under

Sections 354 and 364(2) of the Penal Code for committing the offences of

Kidnapping from lawful guardianship and committing rape on Migel Hewage

Kanchana Maheshika Kumari on 09/08/2008.

The trial commenced before the High Court Judge of Chilaw and the

prosecution had led seven witnesses and marked productions P1- P3 and

closed the case. The Learned High Court Judge having been satisfied that

the evidence presented by the prosecution warrants a case to answer, called

for the defence and explained the rights of the accused.

The Appellant had opted to make a dock statement; two witnesses were

called on his behalf and afterwards closed his case. Having considered the

CA/HCC/0037/2022

3 | P a g e

evidence presented by both parties, the Learned High Court Judge had

convicted the Appellant as charged and sentenced him as follows:

• For the first count he was sentenced to two years rigorous

imprisonment with a fine of Rs. 5,000/-.

• For the second count he was sentenced to 11 years rigorous

imprisonment with a fine of Rs.5,000/- imposed.

Additionally, a compensation of 150,000/- to be paid to PW1 was imposed

with a default sentence of 12 months simple imprisonment.

The background of the case albeit briefly is as follows:

In this case the prosecutrix was 14 years old when she faced this bitter

ordeal. As her parents were separated, she and her sister had lived with her

father. On the day of the incident, she had gone to her grandmother’s house

to attend a feast held in Taniwella Devalaya. After the feast, they had all been

served with food. After having food, all of them had gone home. When they

were about to go home, her mother had given a food parcel to be given to her

father. The victim had used her mother’s bicycle to go to her father’s house.

On the way, the Appellant had approached her and taken the food parcel

given for her father. Although she had pleaded, the Appellant had not given

it back to her. Afterwards, both of them had proceeded to her father’s house

and left the food parcel there. On the way back he had approached her once

again and taken her to a lonely spot and raped her till the following day.

When she went home and told the incident to her mother, both of them had

gone to the police and had lodged her complaint.

PW2 Rada Kumari, the mother of the victim was called next by the

prosecution.

PW11, JMO Dr. Illangarathna Banda had examined the victim on

11.08.2008, two days after the incident. In her short history to the JMO, the

victim had told that the Appellant had performed sexual intercourse against

CA/HCC/0037/2022

4 | P a g e

her will. She also had said that the Appellant had performed anal sex as well.

As the vaginal examination revealed multiple vaginal penetrations, upon

questioning, the victim had told the JMO that she had sexual intercourse

previously with several persons. In addition to vaginal penetration, the JMO

had noted recent anal penetration as well.

The Appellant had raised the following grounds of appeal:

1. Has the prosecution proved the case against the Appellant beyond

reasonable doubt?

2. Has the Learned High Court Judge not properly assessed the material

contradictions present in the prosecution case thereby did a

miscarriage of justice occur?

3. Has the Learned High Court Judge not properly analysed the defence

evidence having regard to the guidelines set by the Superior Courts

denying the Appellant a fair trial?

4. Has the Learned High Court Judge not considered the matters

favourable to the Appellant?

5. Without prejudice to the above questions of law is the imposition of the

sentence excessive?

As the appeal grounds raised by the Appellant are interconnected, all will be

considered together hereinafter.

In criminal cases, the prosecution bears the weight of proving the defendant’s

guilt to the jury and to sufficiently explain why a conviction is justified.

“Beyond a reasonable doubt” refers to the legal principle that the evidence

and arguments brought forward by the prosecution must be so strong and

convincing that any rational person could accept the guilt of the defendant

as fact. Such a standard would ensure no uncertainties exist when a

defendant is convicted.

CA/HCC/0037/2022

5 | P a g e

In the case of State of Andra Pradesh v. Garigula Satya Vani Murthy AIR

1997 SC 1588, it was held that:

“…the courts are expected to show great responsibility while trying an

accused on charges of rape. They must deal with such cases with utmost

sensitivity.”

The prosecutrix in her evidence admitted and clearly stated how she was

raped by the Appellant after he had dragged her to a lonely spot. Although,

she had said that the she had experienced sexual intercourse for the first

time, she had told the JMO that she had sexual intercourse previously. This

had been clearly revealed by the examination done by the JMO. Although the

learned President’s Counsel highlighted this contradiction during his

submission, it was submitted to this court that he is only contesting the

sentence imposed in this case.

The learned Deputy Solicitor General in keeping with the highest tradition of

the Attorney General’s Department informed Court that he will not object if

this Court reconsider the sentence imposed by the Learned High Court

Judge.

In criminal trials, sentencing takes place subsequent to a defendant being

found guilty or after the defendant pleads guilty. The judge would determine

the penalty after a dedicated sentencing hearing. This is done by a thorough

assessment of the severity of the crime, the criminal history of the defendant,

any aggravating or mitigating circumstances and victim impact statements,

in order to issue the appropriate sentence, such as incarceration, probation

or fines.

Considering the submissions made by the learned President’s Counsel with

regard to the sentence imposed on the Appellant, I deduct one year from the

sentence imposed on the second count. Therefore, now, for the second count

he has to serve 10 years rigorous imprisonment to run concurrent to the 02

years sentence imposed on the first count.

CA/HCC/0037/2022

6 | P a g e

The fine imposed and the compensation ordered will remain same with the

default sentence imposed.

Considering all the circumstances, I back date the sentence effective from

the date of conviction, namely 17.12.2021.

Subject to the above variation in the sentence, the Appeal is dismissed.

The Registrar is directed to send this judgment to the High Court of Chilaw

along with the original case record.

JUDGE OF COURT OF APPEAL

R. P. Hettiarachchi, J.

I agree.

JUDEG OF COURT OF APPEAL