==== BLOCKS ==== 

1 1 I I I

THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

W.A. Camilus Silva,

Accused -Appellant

C.A. Appeal No. 20/2003

H.C. Chilaw No. 92/2001

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General,

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

Respondent

SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J. &

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA, J.

Amila Palliyage for Accused-Appellant.

Dappula de Livera D.S.G. for the Attorney General.

02.07.2013.

1 I I ! I I i 1 I II II!

~

r

2

Sisira J. de Abrew, J.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

'IV- The accused-appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of "'-

woman named Warnakulasuriya Rohini Priyanka and the murder of

a man named Warnakulasuriya Michael Fernando and was

sentenced to death. Being aggrieved by said convictions and the

sentence the accused-appellant has appealed to this court.

Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as follows:

The accused-appellant is married to a daughter of Micheal Fernando

who was 2nd deceased in this case. Rohini Priyanka was the sister-

in-law of the accused-appellant. The accused-appellant was living in

separation from his wife after the marriage. His wife was living with

her parents. On the day of incident around 9.00 a.m. the accused-

appellant came to the house of his mother-in law and demanded the

divorce from his wife. This demand was made to his mother- in- law.

On being told that he must make a statement in the police station, he

3

went away after threatening the mother-in-law. Around 4.30 p.m.

on the same day, the accused-appellant came back and called his

son who was living in this house. When the accused-appellant who

came on a bicycle, was talking to his son, he tried to stab his son.

On seeing this incident, Rohini Priyanka the aunt of the accused's

son came to rescue the small boy. At this time the accused-appellant

stabbed Rohini Priyanka. Thereafter he ran in the direction of the

kitchen and stabbed his father- in-law. Thereafter he uttered the

following words "I will kill another". The incident was witnessed by

the accused -appellan t's own son Rumesh Chandana, Elise beth

Fernando, the mother-in-law of the accused-appellant and Geetha

the sister-in-law of the accused-appellant. All three witnesses gave

evidence at the trial. The accused-appellant in his two line dock

statement stated that he went home drunk. He further stated that

he was unaware of what happened. He did not say anything about

the incident that took place in his mother-in-Iaw's house.

Learned Counsel appearing for the accused-appellant submits that

the accused-appellant is entitled to the plea under Section 79 of the

Penal Code. He submits that at the time the accused-appellant came

to the house of his mother-in-law he was drunk. He further submits

that at the time that the police arrested him, he was drunk. He also

4

submits that at the time of the examination by the doctor he was

drunk. It has to be noted that at the time of the arrest the incident

was over. Section 79 of the Penal Code reads as follows.

"In cases where an act done is not an offence unless done with a

particular knowledge or intent, a person who does the act in a

state of intoxication shall be liable to be dealt with as if he had

the same knowledge as he would have had if he had not been

intoxicated, unless the thing which intoxicated him was

administered to him without his knowledge or against his will. JJ

In order to consider the argument of the learned counsel for the

accused-appellant it is necessary to consider some judicial decisions.

In the case of Ratnayake Vs. The Queen 73 NLR page 481 Sirimana,J

held as follows:

" For the purpose of section 79 of the Penal Code the state of

intoxication in which a person should be is one in which he is

incapable of forming a murderous intention; and whether he has

reached that state of intoxication or not is a question of fact for

the jury to determine depending on the evidence in each case;

and it is for the person who raises the plea of drunkenness to

establish on a balance of probability that he had reached the

state of intoxication in which

murderous intention. JJ

he could not have formed a

5

In King vs. Velaiden 48 NLR pg. 409 Howard C.J. held thus:

((where in a case of murder the defence of drunkenness is put

forward, the burden is on the accused to prove that by reason of

the intoxication there was an incapacity to fonn the intention

necessary to commit the crime".

I t is relevant to consider the Section 105 of the Evidence Ordinance

which reads as follows:

(( When a person is accused of any offence, the burden of

proving the existence of circumstances bringing the case within

any of the general exceptions in the Penal Code, or within any

special exception or proviso contained in any other part of the

same Code, or in any law defining the offence, is upon him, and

the Court shall presume the absence of such circumstances. "

Illustrations (a) to Section 105 of the Evidence Ordinance is relevant

in this regard. Illustrations (a) reads as follows:

A, accused of murder, alleges that, by reason of unsoundness of

mind, he did not know the nature of act. The burden of proof is

onA.

After considering the above legal literature, I hold that in a case of

murder if an accused person raises the plea of drunkenness under

f 1 !

6

Section 79 of the Penal Code, the burden is on the accused-I

appellant to prove on a balance of probability that he had reached

the state of intoxication in which he could not have formed a

murderous intention at the time of the alleged act was done.

In the present case has the accused discharged his burden?

Learned counsel submits that when the accused-appellant came to

the house of his mother-in-law at 4.30 p.m., he was drunk. At the

time of arrest and at the time of examination by doctor, he was

drunk. Is this evidence sufficient to prove that he was in a state of

intoxication at the time he stabbed the two deceased persons. For

the accused-appellant to take the defence under Section 79 of the

Penal Code, it is necessary for him to prove that he was in a state

of intoxication at the time he committed the offence.

I will now consider whether he was in a state of intoxication at the

time he committed the offence. If he was not in a state of

intoxication, he is not entitled to claim the relief under Section 79 of

the Penal Code.

Following matters are relevant in order to decide the said question.

7

01. At the time he came to his mother-in-Iaw's house around 4.30

p.m. he came on a bicycle.

02. He questioned his son as to why he did not come to see him

03. He tried to stab his own son.

04. At this time the sister-in -law of the accused-appellant

Rohini Priyanka came to rescue the accused-appellant's son. At

the time she held the hand of the accused-appellant, he

twisted her hand and stabbed her on the back.

05. After stabbing Rohini Prinka the accused-appellant ran in the

direction of the kitchen and kicked the kitchen door and

stabbed the father-in-law.

06.Thereafter he uttered the following words; "I will kill another".

07.After the stabbing, he took his bicycle and went away from the

place.

08. At the time of his arrest he threatened the police officers

with a knife uttering the following words;" If your come

closer, I will stab all of you".

When I consider the above items of evidence, 1 hold that at the time

he stabbed his sister-in-law Rohini Priyanka and his father-in-law

Michel Fernando, he had not reached the state of intoxication.

,

\ I

8

For the above reasons, I hold that he is not entitled to the benefit of

Section 79 of the Penal Code. When I consider the evidence led at

the trial, I hold the view that he was not entitled to have the benefit of

the Section 79 and 78 of the Penal Code.

For the reasons stated above, I affirm the convictions and the death

sentence and dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

jmds