==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A.NO.606/98 (F)

The Associated News Papers of Ceylon Ltd

D.R.Wijewardena Mawatha Colombo 10.

1 st Defendant-Appellant

Ajith Samaranayake Editor Sunday Observer D.R.Wijewardena Mawatha Colombo 10.

Deceased 2 nd Defendant- Appellant

Dinesh Weerawansha Editor Sunday Observer D.R.Wijewardena Mawatha Colombo 10.

Substituted 2 nd Defendant-Appellant

D.C.COLOMBO CASE NO. 15533/MR

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Vs

Brigadier L.D.S.Wijesekara

No.27B, Asiri Uyana Sumudu Pedesa Katubedda Moratuwa.

Plaintiff-Respondent

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J.

Kushan D'Alwis P.C.with Chamath Fernando for the Defendant- Appellants

Chrishmal Warnasuriya with Dushantha Kularatne for the Plaintiff-Respondent.

1

III

I. I

II

j

r

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON

DECIDED ON

CHITRASIRI, J.

27.03.2014,30.04.2014 and 19.05.2014

16.06.2014 by the Defendant-Appellants

16.06.2014 by the Plaintiff-Respondent

24TH JULY 2014

Being aggrieved by the judgment dated 20.08.1998 of the learned District

Judge of Colombo, the two defendant- appellants preferred this appeal seeking to

set aside the said judgment and also to have the action of the plaintiff dismissed.

Action of the plaintiff-respondent is to obtain damages amounting to Rupees Ten

Million with interest thereto from the defendant-respondents for defaming him by

having published a news paper article in the "Sunday Observer". The aforesaid

article had been published on 03.04.1994 in the "Sunday Observer" in its front

page as the headline news and it was marked as P4 in evidence.

The defendant-appellants in their amended answer, having denied the

averments in the amended plaint had pleaded that the matters contained in the

document P4 is of a matter of public interest and also it amounts to making a fair

comment. In the answer filed by the two defendant-appellants, they, among other

matters have also stated that the manner in which the two defendants were

joined as parties to the action is erroneous and that the 2nd defendant had been

made a party without any reason being assigned. Accordingly, they have prayed

2

II

t

~

II

I

to have the plaint dismissed on the basis of mis-joinder of parties. Learned

District Judge decided that the 2nd defendant was the editor of the Sunday

Observer, at the time the newspaper which contained the document marked P4

was published and has declined to accept the said contention of the appellants.

Moreover, it must be noted that it is settled law that no action shall be

defeated by reason of mis-joinder of parties. [Section 1 7 of the Civil Procedure

Code] Therefore, such a matter will not be a reason to have this action dismissed.

Furthermore, the 2nd defendant had been named as a party to the action merely

due to the office he held then. Also, the reliefs that had been prayed for were to

make the defendants jointly and severally liable. Therefore, this action shall not

fail due to the alleged mis-joinder of parties. Indeed, the appellants have not

pursued this ground of appeal when it came to the argument stage in this Court.

The appellants in their amended answer have also pleaded the defence of

Privilege. Instances where the defence of Privilege is applicable are referred to in

the book "The Law of Delict" by Mckerron. Accordingly, the defence of qualified

privilege is generally taken up only when the;

(1) statements made in the discharge of a duty,

(2) statements made in the furtherance or protection of an interest,

(3) statements made in the course of judicial proceedings; and

(4) reports of parliamentary, judicial and certain other proceedings.

[at page 189 in "The Law of Delict" by Mckerron 7th Edition]

3

Circumstances of this case do not fall into the categories referred to above

and therefore. the appellants are not in a position to p.~~ad the defence of privilege

in this instance. In fact, the appellants have not pursued this appeal relying on

the defence of Qualified Privilege.

I will now turn to consider whether the learned District Judge is correct or

not when he decided that the contents in the document marked P4 amounts to

defame the plaintiff-respondent. The publication of the article P4 had been

admitted by the appellants at the commencement of the trial in the District

Court. It is also not in dispute that the news paper in which this article was

published had been the news paper that had the largest circulation in this

country. The said newspaper article marked P4 is reproduced herein below for

convenience.

*****************************************************************

Permits issued to transport banned goods to Tiger territory

Brig. Wijesekera to be court martialled

Retired Brigadier Daya Wijesekara is to be court martialled on charges of misusing his official position while in service to enable the transport of banned goods to Tiger territory in the North.

One charge against him states that Brigadier Wijesekara acted outside his authority by obtaining for a trader named Yoosoof a number of permits to transport restricted items to the North.

The other charge states that while he was Officer-in-Charge of the Media Section, Operational Headquarters, Ministry of Defence, he had ordered the release of trader Yoosoof, who was under interrogation by the Military Police at Anuradhapura.

4

f

I • i I

f

I i

After retirement from service Brigadier Wijesekera was re-employed as Director of Psychological operations in the Defence Ministry.

._.> - -._._. --.. -~----------In January this year, President D.B. Wijetunga ordered a probe into how Brigadier Wijesekera's name was included in a delegation to the United Nations for Human Rights Conference.

The name of Senior State Counsel Mr.Nihara Rodrigo had been left out and Brigadier Wijesekera's name had been included instead describing him as Mr. Wijesekera Director of Human Rights in the Ministry of Justice. There is no such post in the Justice Ministry.

This was detected before the departure of the delegation and Brigadier Wijesekera was left out of it.

Following are the full charges made against him for the Court Martial on conduct prejudicial to military discipline.

In that you whilst serving as the Officer-in-Charge of the Media Section Operational Headquarters Ministry of Defence Colombo did on 16th June 1991 instruct the Officiating Commanding Officer 2 Coy Sri Lanka Corps of Military Police Anuradhapura Major Asoka Thoradeniya to release one Yoosoof a civilian trader under interrogation by the Military Police, at Anuradhapura, to enable him to go home, and report back to the Military Police the following morning, consequently interfering with the ongoing investigations of the Sri Lanka Corps of Military Police and thereby committing an offence punishable under Section 129(1) of the Army Act No.17 of 1949.

In that you whilst serving as the Officer-in-Charge of the Media Section

Operational Headquarters Ministry of Defence Colombo did during the period First March 1990 to August 1991 misuse your official position as a Senior Officer at the Operational Headquarters of the Ministry of Defence and acted outside your authority by obtaining for civilian trader Yoosoof a number of permits which are a mandatory requirement to transport restricted items to

the North of Sri Lanka which said act, is in violation of the procedure set out by the said Operational Headquarters, thus enabling the abovementioned civilian to sell the permits at a profit and did thereby commit an offence punishable under section 129(1) of the Army Act No.17 of 1949.

***************************************************************

5

It is the burden of the plaintiff-respondent to establish that the publication

of the document marked P4 has led to injure his name; and if so, whether it was

published with malice. Mackerron's view on the aspect of burden of proof is as

follows:

((Where no secondary meanzng IS attributed to the words

complained oj, the test for determining whether they are

defamatory is whether in the circumstances in which they were

published ordinary reasonable men to whom the publication was

made would be likely to understand them in a defamatory sense.

The onus of proving this rests, of course on the plaintiff"

[At page 176]

Having referred to the law as to the party who is responsible to discharge

the burden to prove a case filed to claim damages for defamation, I wish to refer

to another decision mentioned in the book "Defamation and other aspects of the

Actio Injuriarum" by C.F.Amerasinghe, in respect of the substantive law

concerning defamation. In that book, the following passage from the decision in

Jayawardane v. Aberan [1864] Ram. [1863-1868] at page 4] had been quoted

and it reads thus:

((Defamation is maliciously publishing either by word or mouth,

by writing, by printing, or by pictorial or other representation,

either in his presence, or his absence, publicly or secretly,

anything whereby a person's honour or good name is injured or

damaged."

6

I will once again refer to some of the passages in the book "The Law of

Delict" by Mckerron relevant to the matters that have arisen in this case since it

is a book that is being used as a guide, in determining the issues in the sphere of

the Law of Delict. In that book at pages 171 & 172 it is stated that:

((A defamatory statement is one which tends to diminish the

esteem in which the person to whom it refers is held by others.

The typical example of a defamatory statement is a statement

reflecting upon the moral character of the plaintiff; for example, a

statement attributing to the plaintiff the commission of a crime, or

imputing to him untruthfulness, dishonesty, immorality, or any

other kind of dishonourable or improper conduct. "

At page 177, it is thus been mentioned:

(Thus, if a newspaper publishes an article which might reasonably

be regarded by the ordinary reader as reflecting upon the moral

character of the plaintiff, it is responsible for the impression which the

article would produce upon the mind of the ordinary reader, and it is

immaterial whether the writer of the article intended to produce that

impression or not. "

The authorities mentioned above show that the applicable test in order to

determine whether or not a particular publication is defamatory of a person is the

"test of a reasonable man". Therefore, it is necessary to ascertain whether a

reasonable and/ or a prudent person who looks at the contents of the article P4,

would come to the conclusion that those matters contained in the said

publication amount to defamatory character of the respondent.

7 II

ft J I

When a reasonable and prudent person sees the front page headlines in the

"Sunday Observer" published on 03.04.1994 which reads that the respondent is . .' ",

to be court martialled, he/she would obviously think that the person, to whom it

is being referred to, is not fit to be a Brigadier in the Sri Lanka Army. When such

a person reads even the full text of the publication, he would certainly get the

impression that the respondent is not a person who performs his duty in the

manner required by an officer in the rank of a Brigadier in the Sri Lanka Army.

Such news would amount to lower his standing in the society as well. It also may

lead to ridicule that person by the ordinary people of the country. Therefore, it is

clear that the publication marked P4 per se is of defamatory character of the

respondent.

However, since the appellants have taken up the position that they had no

malice towards the respondent when they published the article P4, then it is

necessary to look at the animus injuriandi on the part of the appellants to

ascertain malice on their part. In "The Law of Delict" by Mackerron, it is stated

that the existence of animus injuriandi is an essential basis of such a cause of

action. This position had been followed in Perera v. Peiris [50 NLR at 145] as

well.

The manner in which anzmus injuriandi is determined is described in the

book titled "Defamation and other aspects of the actio Injuriarium" by

C.F.Amerasinghe. At page 65 in that book, it is mentioned that:

8

tI f iIIrIt I I

((animus injuriandi being a state of mind has in the generality of

cases to be inferred from the words and the occasion on which

a-nd the""context and the czrcumstances in which they are used. "

Also, in Associated Newspapers of Ceylon Ltd v. Gunasekera, Nagalingam A.

C.J. [53 NLR at 481] has stated thus:

((The position, therefore, is that defamatory words relating

to the plaintiff have been published and animus injuriandi

would be presumed in the publications. "

As mentioned hereinbefore in this judgment, the matters contained in the

article marked P4 amount to defame the respondent. Hence, malice on the part of

the appellants is to be presumed when the law referred to in the authorities

referred to above is applied. Then, it is the burden of the appellants to show that

they had no malice to injure the character of the respondent when they published

the articled marked P4.

I am unable to find any evidence forthcoming to show that the appellants

had no malice towards the respondent when the article marked P4 was published.

In the circumstances, it is clear that the presumption created establishing that

the appellants had published the article with malice would prevail. This is more

so, when the contents of the article is basically false. I will be dealing with this I

aspect of falsity of the news contained in the article marked P4 at a later stage in i

I this judgment. t

9

i !

Also, in De Costs v. The Times of Ceylon Ltd and another, [62 NLR at

265] Privy Council's view on this point is that the matter tending to bring a

person into condemn or ridicule would be defamatory. Therefore, the article P4

per se would be defamatory of the plaintiff-respondent and therefore it had been

published with malice. Accordingly, it is seen that the animus injuiriandi on the

part of the appellants also have been established by publishing the article P4. In

the circumstances, it is clear that the learned District Judge is correct when he

decided that the contents of the article P4 would be defamatory of the plaintiff-

responden t.

Then the issue is to ascertain whether the appellants were successful in

establishing the defences that they have advanced in this instance. As I have

already dealt with the defence of Privilege, I will now turn to consider the merits

in the defences of public interest and fair comment. At this stage it is necessary

to note that in the submissions filed in this Court upon the conclusion of the

argument, the appellants have restricted their defences to fair comment &

justification. (paragraph 7 of the submissions dated 16,06,2014)

Hence, it is necessary to consider whether the appellants have established

the defences of fair comment and justification, successfully. When the defence of

justification is taken up, it is up to the defendants to show that the contents in

the alleged statements are true and the said publication is for the benefit of the

public. Therefore, it is necessary to ascertain whether the contents of the

document P4 are in fact true or false.

10

I

tI (

The headline of the article which is in bold font and in bigger characters is

to read as "Brigadier is to be court martialled" . There is clear and

unambiguous evidence to show that there is no such decision taken by the Sri

Lanka Army. Edward Seneviratne Jayasinghe, an Attorney-at-Law attached to

the Legal Services Division, Sri Lanka Army has testified that no Court Martial

was to be held against the respondent. His evidence to this effect is as follows:

9·

G·

(vide proceedings at pages 180 and 181 in the appeal brief).

He has further said in evidence that there had been an inquiry called "Summary of

evidence" and no court martial was to be held. The evidence to that effect is as

follows:

9·

G·

9·

11

9·

(vide proceedings at pages 189 and 190 in the appeal brief).

Furthermore, the document marked P3, which is the final clearance

certificate issued by the Sri Lanka Army, upon completion of 60 years in age by

the respondent, show that he had an unblemished character whilst in the

service.(vide at page 90 of the appeal brief) The document marked Pl1 also

indicate that the then Commander of the Sri Lanka Army, Lieutenant General

G.H.de.Silva, having examined the proceedings of the summary of evidence had

held that there was lack of evidence to proceed with a court martial on the charges

alleged to have been made against the respondent. In the circumstances, it is

clear that the newspaper publication, published by the 1st defendant-appellant

contained no truth. Hence, justification could not have been pleaded as a defence

in this instance particularly when the publication contains falsehood.

In the book "Defamation and other aspects of actio Injuriarium" by

C.F.Amerasinghe, [at page 89] it is stated that:

"past crimes or conduct may not be resurrected and there are

many cases which have held that statements which refer to

such conduct are not for the public benefit. "

12

I

IIl!II I II•

tIII

Hence, it is necessary to look at the cont.ell.ts of_the document P4 in its

entirety with that of the circumstances attached to it to ascertain whether the

contents in P4 amount to fare comment. In the latter part of the article, it is

alleged that the respondent was charged for interfering with investigations of

the Sri Lanka Corps of Military Police by having allowed a civilian trader by

the name of Yosoof to sell the permits to transport restricted items to the

North of Sri Lanka.

Learned District Judge having considered the evidence of Lieutenant

P.J.M.Perera recorded on 19.8.1996, had decided that there had not been a

disciplinary action against the respondent on such allegations. (vide

proceedings at page 277 in the appeal brief). Moreover, the document marked

P3 show that the respondent had been released from the Sri Lanka Army

honourably upon completion of 60 years in age. In the circumstances, it is

clear that there is no justification and it is not a fare comment either, to have

published the news item found in the document marked P4, with the

comments made therein referring to the plaintiff-respondent.

I will now examine whether the publication of P4 could be considered as an

article published for the benefit of the pUblic. When this point is to be considered,

it is necessary to note that the conduct of public officials has to be made known

with impunity. That is because it is for the public benefit such conduct should be

exposed. In "The Law of Delict" by Mckerron at page 201, it is stated as follows:

13

"Comment is fair if it is honest that is, a genuine expression of the

_.critic~s real opinion and relevant to . .theJas;t commented upon."

In this instance, is it fair to state that the respondent is to be court

martialled when no such decision had ever been taken? My opinion is NO.

Comments are to be considered fair, only when it is genuinely expressed. As

referred to above, the contents of the article basically contain no truth. Therefore,

there is no genuineness in the comments made in that article as far as the

respondent is concerned. Therefore, I am not inclined to decide that the

appellants are in a position to take up the defence of fair comment either, in this

instance.

For the reasons set out hereinbefore, it is my opinion that the plaintiff has

proved his case on a balance of probability and the defendant-appellants were not

successful in establishing the defences that they have advanced in this instance.

Hence, I do not see any reason to interfere with the findings of the learned District

Judge.

Also, it must be stated that the learned District Judge has awarded only

Rupees Two Million to the plaintiff-respondent though he has prayed for Rupees

Ten Million as damages for the injury caused to him by the publication of the

news contained in the article marked P4. Both parties have not made submissions

on the question of damages and therefore it is clear that the appellants have not

canvassed the quantum of damages awarded to the plaintiff-respondent.

Therefore, it is not necessary to consider the quantum of damages awarded to the

respondent by the learned District Judge.

14

t ,, I

II

rt II II

!, !II

1I

For the aforesaid reasons, this appeal is dismissed with costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

15

I I!

t

fj( t ! ,