==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA 260/2009

Sangarathnage Semapala Perera

Accused-Appellant

Vs The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Complainant Respondent

HC Panadura 197 4/2005

Before

Counsel

Argued on Decided on

Sisira J de Abrew J & PWDC JayathilakeJ

Udara Zoysa for the accused appellant Sarath J ayamanne DSG for the Respondent.

3.5.2013 and 7.5.2013 12.6.2013

Sisira J de Abrew J.

The accused appellant was charged for the murder of his own brother

named Sagarathnage S unil Perera. After trial the learned trial judge found him

guilty of the offence of culpable homicide not amounting to murder and sentenced

him to a term of eight years rigorous imprisonment (RI) and to pay a fine of

Rs10,000/- carrying a default sentence of six months simple imprisonment. Being

aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence the accused appellant has

appealed to this court. The facts of this case may be briefly summarized as follows:

On the day of the incident around 7.30 p.m. to 8.00p.m Chandrani the

wife of the deceased person Sunil, on hearing the shouts of her husband, went to

the land of Carolis who is the uncle of Sunil. She then saw her husband and

2

husband's father lying fallen on the ground. When the accused appellant tried to

assault Sunil with a club she prevented it by holding the club. The accused

appellant then told her to bring a three wheeler and take him. It is not clear from

the evidence whether he told her to take him to the hospital. Little later she came .

back to the scene of offence in a three wheeler.

Gamini Siri Perera who was living in the neighborhood of the deceased

person around 8.30 p.m. to 8.45 p.m. on hearing from one Sampath that Sunil had

been stabbed went to the scene of offence and addressed Sunil who was lying

fallen with a bleeding injury in the following language: 'sunil sunil'. Then Sunil

told him that Aiya stabbed him. Thereafter he took both Sunil and Sunil's father to

the hospital.

It is necessary to consider whether the item of evidence that the accused

appellant tried to assault Sunil with a club could be relied upon. Although the

accused appellant tried to attack Sunil with a club he himself told Chandrani to

bring a three wheeler and take him. If he wanted to attack Sunil with a club would

he request Chndrani to bring a three wheeler and take him? I doubt about the truth

of the above item of evidence that the accused appellant tried to attack the

deceased with a club. In my view it is not safe to place reliance on this item of

evidence.

Learned DSG submitted that no reliance could be placed on the

evidence of Carolis whose evidence had been rejected by the learned trial judge

although he claimed to be an eye witness. He submitted that he would rely on the

following items of evidence.

1. Dying declaration made by Sunil to Gamini Siri Perera.

2. Sarong with blood stains recovered by the police officer in consequence of a

statement made by the accused appellant.

3

3. Blood stained knife recovered by the police officer in consequence of a

statement made by the accused appellant.

I now advert to the dying declaration. In order to act on a dying

declaration, court must be satisfied that the deceased person in fact made the dying

declaration. If there are reasonable doubts on this matter, court should not rely on

the alleged dying declaration. In order to rely on a dying declaration, prosecution

must prove beyond reasonable doubt that the deceased person was able to speak

after he sustained the injury. In the present case when the Prosecuting State

Counsel asked the doctor whether the deceased, at any stage, could have spoken

after receiving injuries, he said that the deceased person could have spoken at the

time of the incident. This means that the deceased person could have spoken at the

time of the injury being inflicted. Learned prosecuting State Counsel did not

thereafter pursue his line of examination. There is no medical evidence to say the

deceased person could have spoken after receiving injury.

The other question that must be considered is even if the deceased,

after receiving the injury, could have spoken, for how long he could have spoken.

There is no medical evidence on this point. Doctor says that within five minutes of

the receipt of the injury the brain of the deceased person would be completely

inactive. Gamini Siri Perera's evidence is that he spoke to the deceased person

after the injury was inflicted. But is there evidence to suggest that he spoke to the

deceased person within five minutes of the receipt of the injury? He himself admits

that it took five to ten minutes to come to the scene of offence. He came to this

place after Sampath came and told him about the incident. How long did Sampath

take to go to Gamini Siri Perera's house? There is no evidence on this point. How

long after the incident did Sampath learn about the incident? There is no evidence.

4

Chandrani syas that she came to the scene of offence around 7.30 p.m. to 8.00 p.m.

Gamini Siri Perera says that he came to the scene of offence around 8.30 p.m.-

8.45 p.m. Under these circumstances how can one decide that Gamini Siri Perera

came to the scene of offence within five minutes of the deceased sustained

injuries? When I consider all these matters it is not possible to decide that the

deceased person made a dying declaration to Gamini Siri Perera. Therefore it was

wrong for the learned trial judge to rely on the dying declaration. In order to act on

a dying declaration court must be satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that the

deceased person made the dying declaration. The learned trial judge has not

considered these matters.

The next item relied upon by the learned DSG is the recovery of the

blood stained sarong in consequence of a statement made by the accused appellant.

There was no evidence by the Government Analyst that there was blood on the

sarong. Thus the contention that there was blood on the sarong is untenable. Then

the court has to consider only the recovery of a sarong in consequence of a

statement made by the accused appellant. This cannot be connected to the incident

of causing injury to the deceased person by the accused appellant. This item of

evidence does not strengthen the prosecution case.

The next item of evidence relied upon by the DSG is the recovery of a

blood stained knife. There is no evidence by the Government Analyst that there

was blood on the knife. The doctor says that the injury of the. deceased person

could be caused with this knife. When the above two items of evidence cannot be

relied upon, recovery of the knife is not sufficient to sustain the conviction. The

learned trial judge has failed to consider these matters. When I consider the

evidence led at the trial, I hold the view that the prosecution has not proved the

5

case beyond reasonable doubt. I therefore set aside the conviction and the sentence

and acquit the accused appellant.

Appeal allowed.

PWDC J ayathilake J

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Judge of the Court of Appeal