==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

Tennakoon Mudiyanselage Palitha

Tennakoon.

Accused-Appellant

CA. Appeal No.173/11

H.CKandy No. 84/2003 Vs.

Before

Counsel:

Argued &

Decided on

Sisira J. de Abrew, J.

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J

The Hon.Attorney-Generai.

Respondent

Ranil Samarasooriya with M.R.Ranasinghe for the Accused-

Appellant.

A.Jinasena DSG for the Attorney-General.

05.09.2013.

1

Sisira lode Abrew, 10

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of a man

named Palugedera Thilakaratne Banda and was sentenced to death. Being

aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence he has appealed to this Court.

The case of the prosecution completely depended on two dying

declarations made by the deceased person and recovery of a knife under Section

27 of the Evidence Ordinance. According to the facts of this case when the

deceased person was lying fallen on the road side after receiving injuries the

villagers took him to the village hospital. On the way to the hospital he was

taken to the police station. I.P.Jayasinghe(the investigating police officer) says

that when he questioned the deceased person as to who stabbed him he (the

deceased person) answered in the following language. II O)@a> ®d8~)o O)@a>

Cia>~~CiC)J~ " (brother-in-law Palitha. Palitha Tennekoon) Thus it is very clear

from the evidence of I.P.Jayasinghe that the deceased person made a dying

declaration to him to the effect that the accused person in this case stabbed

him(the deceased person). When the above dying declaration was being made

Anura Weerakoon who was a three wheeler driver too was present near the

2

police officer. He too heard the same dying declaration being made to the police

officer.

Jayasinghe is one of the neighbours who ran to the place of the incident.

According to him, he questioned the deceased person while he was taken to the

hospital. When he questioned as to what happened to him (the deceased

person), he replied that Bandara stabbed him. The accused-appellant is also

called Bandara. Learned Counsel for the accused-appellant submitted that the

dying declaration made to Jayasinghe was not heard by Anura Weerakoon who

too was present when the dying declaration was being made. He therefore

submitted that the dying declaration made to Jayasinghe should be rejected. He

contended that the dying declaration made to Jayasinghe should have been

--n....p-heard by Anura Weerakoon too. There is no rule in Criminal Law what was

A

heard by a witness should necessarily be heard by other witness who was

present at this place. When considering the argument of learned Counsel for

the accused-appellant, I am reminded of the judgment of the Indian Supreme

Court in Bhoginbhai Hirijibhai vs State of Gujarat AIR 1983 SC 753. Indian

Supreme Court in the said case held thus: " the powers of observation differ

from person to person. What one may notice, another may not. It is unrealistic

to expect a witness to be a human tape recorder."

3

JrI,

For the above reasons I am unable to agree with the contention of learned

Counsel for the accused-appellant.

Learned Counsel for the accused-appellant contended that Karunaratne

was also present near the police officer when the deceased person made the

dying declaration. He contended that the reasonable doubt was created in the

prosecution case by not calling Karunaratne as a witness. Should the prosecutor

call all the witnesses who are on the back of the indictment? Karunaratne was a

witness on the back of the indictment. There is no rule in Criminal Law that the

prosecutor should call all the witnesses on the back of the indictment. This view

is supported by the judgment of the Privy Council in the case of King vs

Seneviratne 38 NLR 208 where their Lordships held thus: "the prosecution is

not bound to call witnesses irrespective of consideration of number and

reliability . In King vs Chalo Singho 42 NLR 269, Soertsz,J held thus:

If

"prosecuting Counsel is not bound to call all the witnesses named on the back of

the indictment or tender them for cross examination." In Walimunige John vs

State 76 NLR page 488 His Lordship Justice G.P.A. Silva held thus: "the

prosecution is not bound to call all the witnesses whose names appears on the

I

back of the indictment or to tender them for cross examination." For the above

reasons I am unable to agree with the contention of learned Counsel for the

accused-appellant. The dying declaration in this case was made to an

independent witness police officer. It was heard by Anura Weerakoon.

4 I

I I

i } I

Jayasinghe who is also a lay witness speaks about the dying declaration made by

the deceased person. Doctor who conducted the post mortem, says that the

deceased could speak after receiving injuries. The accused in his dock statement

denied the incident. The police officer who recorded the statement of the

accused-appellant recovered a knife in consequence of a statement made by the

accused-appellant. The doctor says that the injuries found on the body of the

deceased person could be caused by the said knife.

I have considered the evidence led at the trial. I see no reason to interfere

with the judgment of the learned trial Judge. I therefore affirm the conviction

and the death sentence and dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

P.W.D.C. Iayathilaka, I

I agree.

KLP/-

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

5