==== BLOCKS ==== 

!

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL

OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A.No.175/98 IF)

Ananda Kodagoda No.53j4, Kandawala Watta Ratmalana.

Defendant-Appellant

D.C.MT.LAVINIA CASE NO.99/92/L

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON

DECIDED ON

Moraj Megji Udeshi No.16, Queen Terrace

Colombo 3.

Plaintiff-Respondent

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J

U.L.A.Majeed with K.R.M.Abdul Raheem for the Defendan t -A ppellan t

Manohara De Silva P.C . with S.K.Lankathilake and Charith Galhena for the Plaintiff-Respondent

08.07.2013

29th August 2013 by the Defendant- Appellant 27th September 2013 by the Plaintiff-Respondent

22.01.2014

1

CHITRASIRI, J.

This is an appeal preferred by the defendant-appellant (hereinafter

referred to as the defendant) to have the judgment dated 13th February

1998 of the learned District Judge of Mt.Lavinia, set aside. In the

petition of appeal, the defendant also has prayed that a judgment be

entered in his favour as prayed for in the prayer to the answer filed by

him in the District Court.

This action was filed by the plaintiff-respondent (hereinafter

referred to as the plaintiff) to obtain a declaration, declaring that he

and/ or Narhari Choonilal Bhatt or his successors are entitled, to the

land morefully described in the 3rd schedule to the plaint and also to

have the right of way as described in the 4th schedule to the plaint. The

plaintiff also sought to have the defendant evicted therefrom.

The defendant in his answer whilst seeking to dismiss the plaint

has also claimed prescriptive title to the land referred to in the 3rd

schedule to the plaint. Having framed the issues in accordance with the

aforesaid matters contained in the pleadings, learned District Judge

proceeded to record the evidence of the witnesses called by the respective

parties and then delivered the impugned judgment which is in favour of

the plaintiff. At the same time, learned District Judge declined to accept

the prescriptive claim of the defendant.

2

I I

" 1 j

{ 1 I 1

j

1

~ 1 1 ! i I 1 J I ! •

At the outset, it is necessary to note that in a rei vindicatio action,

the burden of proving the required ingredients rests on the person who

claims ownership to the property he claims. This position in law has

been clearly explained in the book "Wille's Principles of South African

Law". [9th Edition - 2007] The following paragraph found at pages 539

& 540 in that book summarizes the position referred to above.

"To succeed with the rei vindicatio" the owner must prove on a

balance of probabilities, first, his or her ownership in the property. If a movable is sought to be recovered, the owner must rebut the presumption that the possessor of the movable is the owner thereof In the case of immovables, it is sufficient as a rule to show that title in the land is registered in his or her name.

Secondly, the property must exist, be clearly identifiable and must not have been destroyed or consumed. Money, in the form of coins and banknotes, is not easily identifiable and thus not

easily vindicable. Thirdly, the defendant must be in possession or detention of the thing at the moment the action is instituted. The rationale is to ensure that the defendant is in a position to comply with an order for restoration". (emphasis added)

As mentioned above, m order to claim ownership, it is first

necessary to establish the identity of the land to which the claim is

made. This requirement, needed in a rei vindicatio action had been

upheld by the Supreme Court in Jamaldeen Abdul Lateef v. Abdul

Majeed Mohamed Mansoor and another. [2010 (2) S.L.R. at page 333]

Accordingly, it should have been the duty of the trial judge to ascertain

whether the plaintiff in this case too has properly discharged his burden

of proving the identity of the land to which he claims title even before

proving the ownership to same.

3

As mentioned hereinbefore, the plaintiff claims title to the land

described in the 3rd schedule to the plaint with the right of way referred

to in the 4th schedule thereto. (prayer (q) in the plaint dated 16.7.1992)

Hence, it becomes necessary to ascertain whether the plaintiff was

successful in establishing the identity of those two lands referred to in

the 3rd and the 4th schedule to the plaint.

In establishing identity of a land in suit, the extent of which plays

a vital role. The extent of the land shown in the 3rd schedule is 18.56

perches. The title of the plaintiff to the land he claims derives from the

deed bearing No.914 dated 7.4.1967 marked P2 executed by

V.N.Thurairajah, Notary Public. This deed too entitles the plaintiff to

claim title to a land in extent of 18.56 perches which is the exact extent

claimed by the plaintiff in the prayer to the plaint as well.

I t is the only deed that had been produced in evidence to establish

title of the plaintiff. The evidence in relation to the aforesaid deed was

not subjected to cross-examination. Therefore, learned District Judge

has relied upon the evidence contained in the aforesaid deed bearing

No.914 marked as P2 and has decided the case as prayed for in the

plaint. The decision of the learned District Judge in this regard is as

follows.

"Oz®~@tl)OzD~ (j®® ~~D <g>'(C5005 tl)O O)~(j~ oz: 3 ~o®€J 8@(j()

tl)zCV@ qotl): 13 r&; (jtl))occi ~ tl)zcv@ qotl): 7 0 r&;®tl)@ 9tl))G<}cci c~ 505~tl)Oz

4

oz:2 (000 wcigE) @)O) 1967 E)6~a~ ®(!3c() aG)~ qzO). ~ Q@(v~CJac~

q)ofJ(!3ci ~zO)·

(vide proceedings at page 124 in the appeal brief).

However, as seen in the above paragraph, learned District Judge in

coming to his findings has also referred to and taken into consideration,

Lot 7 in the plan 8651/1961 dated 1.2.1961 drawn by G.W.Ferdinands,

Licensed Surveyor that was marked P3 in evidence. In the 3rd schedule

to the plaint, this particular Lot 7 has been identified as a sub-division of

Lot 13 found in the aforesaid Plan 8651/1961 marked P3. Therefore, it is

implied that the plaintiff is relying upon the extent of the aforesaid sub

divided lot 7 in plan 8651/ 1961 to establish the identity of the corpus in

this case.

Significantly, the extent of the sub-divisions of Lot 13 including the

sub divided lot 7 is not given in the plan marked P3 even though the

extent of the same lot 7 is given as 18.56 perches in the deed marked P2.

It is important to note at this stage that the plaintiff as well as the

defendant has taken out two Commissions to identify the land in dispute

on the basis of the sub divided lot 7 referred to above in plan marked P3.

Accordingly, the two plans bearing Nos. 1838 and 1678 had been

prepared by two different surveyors pursuant to those Commissions

issued through Court and those were marked in evidence as P6 and P7

5

respectively. Both the surveys had been carried out taking into

consideration the aforesaid larger plan 8651/ 1961 marked P3 in

preparing the plans marked P6 and P7.

The extent of the sub-divided lot 7 in plan 8651/1961 which is

shown in both the plans marked P6 and P7 comes to more than 27

perches. However, as referred to earlier, plaintiffs entitlement according

to the title deed is only to a land in extent of 18.56 perches. In the

circumstances, it is seen that the plaintiff having referred to the sub

divided Lot 7 in plan 8651/1961 in the plaint to support his claim is now

seeking to claim a land identifying it as having more than 27 perches in

extent by producing the plan marked P6 though his entitlement under

the deed P2 is only to a land in extent of 18.56 perches.

Certainly, Court cannot grant title to a land that has considerably

more extent than what is entitled to, unless such a difference can be

explained with cogent reasons. In this instance, the plaintiff is to obtain

title and possession of a land in extent of more than 27 perches in the

event the impugned judgment is to stand whereas his entitlement is only

to a land in extent of 18.56 perches according to the title deed marked

P2.

The learned District Judge has not addressed his mind to this

aspect at all. In fairness to him, it is necessary to note that the difference

in the extent between the land that the plaintiff is entitled to and the

6

t

land he claims upon returning the commissions, had not been brought to

his notice to consider. In the circumstances, it is clear that the plaintiff

has failed to identify correctly, the land to which he claims title.

Accordingly, the case of the plaintiff should fail. For the aforesaid

reasons, it is my opinion that the learned District Judge should have

dismissed the plaint of the plaintiff for the reasons set out above.

At this stage, it must be noted that the identification of a land in

suit is necessary even to have proper execution of the decree against a

judgment debtor. Therefore, it is very necessary to identify the land

enabling the proper execution of the decree without affecting the rights of

the others who are not made parties to the action.

Indeed, the sister of the defendant has given evidence in this case

explaining her longstanding possession to the land which supposed to

have been commenced during the time of her father. Also, there IS

evidence as to the manner in which they possessed the land having

divided it amongst the brothers and sisters of their family. The two

Commissioners who have submitted plans marked P6 and P7 also has

sub-divided Lot 7 once again, having considered the manner in which the

family members of the defendant had possessed the land. In those sub-

divisions, the persons who are in occupation of the land also are clearly

mentioned.

7

Those who claimed possession before the surveyors had never been

made parties to this action. Therefore, it is clear that the rights of the

persons who are in possession of the land also be liable to be prejudiced

in the event the decision of the learned District Judge is to prevail.

In the circumstances, it is my opinion that the learned District

Judge has misdirected himself when he decided the case without

properly identifying the land to which the plaintiff is entitled to.

Therefore, the judgment of the learned District Judge cannot be allowed

to stand. For the same reason namely for not identifying the land in suit,

the plaintiff is not entitled to have the re1eifs as prayed for in the prayer

to the plaint.

The defendant also has prayed that he be declared entitled to the

land claimed by the plaintiff on the basis of prescription. Learned

District has considered this claim of the defendant and he was of the

view that the defendant is not entitled to claim prescriptive title basically

due to his failure to give evidence claiming the rights he has to this land.

On behalf of the defendant, one of his sisters has given evidence.

She is the only witness who gave evidence on behalf of the defendant.

Defendant has not come forward to give evidence. The defendant, without

claiming prescriptive rights in evidence or at least not showing the

reason as to why he is not coming forward to give evidence, it is not

incorrect to decide that the defendant in this instance has failed to

8

establish his prescriptive claim. Therefore, I am not inclined to interfere

with the decision of the learned District Judge as to the prescriptive

claim of the defendant.

For the aforesaid reasons, the judgment dated 13.02.1988 of the

learned District Judge is set aside. The plaint of the plaintiff is

dismissed. The decision of the learned District Judge as to the

prescriptive claim of the defendant is affirmed

Having considered the circumstances of this case, I do not wish to

make any order as to the costs of this appeal. The parties are to bear

their own expenses.

Appeal is partly allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

9

IIt II

I

I

\

i ! t