==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI lANKA

No.C.A (PHC) 147/2002

PHC Kandy No. 136/98

M.C.Walapane No.M/7948/97

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Lanka Jathika Estate Workers Union 60, Bandaranayakepura

Sri Jayawardenapura Mawatha Weikada, Rajagiriya

Petitioner-Appellant

Vs

Pradeshiya Lekam, Walapane

Plaintiff-Respondent-Respondent

2. Thailan Pushparaj

Lanka Jathika Estate Workers Union

Bus Stand. Walapone

1st Respondent-Respondent-

Respondent

A. W. A. Salam J.,

Sunil Rajapakse J.,

Sunil Abeyratne for the Appellant

Anusha Samaranayake, S.S.C for the Respondent

11th July 2013

13th September 2013

II

I

2

I I I

Rajapakse, J.,

This is an application for Revision filed by the Petitioner Appellant against

\

the Judgment of the learned High Court Judge of Central Province, Kandy and the

learned Magistrate of Walepana.

Being aggrieved by the said Judgments, th4e Petitioner Appellant filed this

Revision Application to set aside the above judgments.

The Complainant Plaintiff Respondent made an application under the

provisions of State Lands (Recover of Possession) Act to the Magistrates Court of

Walapane against the 2nd Respondent. After issuing summons on the 2nd

Respondent, the Respondent appeared before the Magistrates Court of Walapane

and moved to show cause against the Order for ejectment. At the At the inquiry,

th4e 2nd Respondent was led on behalf of the Respondent. After the inquiry

learned Magistrate of Walpane delivered his Order ejecting the 2nd Respondent

from the disputed premises on the basis that the Applicant had been unable to

establish to court that he is in possession of the disputed land on a valid permit, in

terms of Section 9 of the State Lands (Recovery of Possession) Act.

II

I I I

3

Being aggrieved by the said Order of the learned Magistrate of Walapane,

the Petitioner Appellant had filed a Revision Application in the High Court of

Kandy. By Judgment dated 2002.6.20 the learned High Court Judge dismissed the

application for Revision.

Being aggrieved by the learned High Court Judge's judgment, the Petitioner

Appellant has filed this appeal to the Court of Appeal.

When the matter came up for argument before this Court the learned

Counsel for the Petitioner Appellant submitted to Court that the 2nd

Respondent's possession/occupation was merely as an employee and dependant

of the Petitioner.-Appellant. Further he contended that the Petitioner Appellant's

Trade Union was in the actual possession of the said premises. In the Magistrates

Court the 2nd Respondent's main contention was that his possession/occupation

was merely as an employee and dependant of the Lanka National Estate Workers'

Union (Petitioner Appellant). But the 2nd Respondent's evidence In the

Magistrates Court revealed that he was in actual physical possession/occupation

of the said disputed premises. Learned Magistrate of Walapane had rejected the

2nd Respondent's defence on the basis that the provisions of the State Lands

Iti•t

~.

j 4 I I (Recovery of Possession) Act applied to the 2nd Respondent who was in

possession of the premises in question.

Section 9 of the State Lands (Recovery of Possession) Act read as follows:

"Section 9(1)

"At such inquiry the person on whom summons under Section 6 has been

served shall not be entitled to contest any of the matters stated in the

application under Section 5, except that such person may establish that he

is in possession or occupation of the land upon a valid permit or other

written authority of the State granted in accordance with any written law

and that such Permit or authority is in force and not revoked or otherwise

rendered invalid:

(a) It shall not be competent to the Magistrate court to call for evidence

fram the competent authority in support of the application under

Section 5. II

According to the State Land Recovery Act the Respondent or any

other person are not entitled to contest any of the matters set out in the

application unless the Respondent had established that he was in

occupation of the land on a valid permit or other written authority of the

State, he cannot occupy the said premises.

If I

II1I ,

5

The learned Counsel for the Plaintiff Respondent contended that the

other two defences raised by the petitioner Appellant in this case did not

come within the scope of inquiry permitted under Section 9.

The Petitioner Appellant has raised two other objections in this case. Those

objections are as follows:

i) Rent and ejectment case was pending In respect of the

premises in question; and

ii) That a previous application filed under Act against the 2

nd

Respondent had been rejected for failure to name the correct

person

After analyzing the submissions made by both parties this

Court agree with the Plaintiff Respondent under Section 9 of the

State Lands (Recovery of Possession) Act, that the Petitioner

Appellant or 2nd Respondent can raise objections only on the basis of

a valid Permit or written authority. If the Magistrate is not satisfied

with the objections raised by the Respondent he has the authority to

make order directing the ejectment forthwith. I hold that the 2nd

5 I I i

~

\

I f f ! ! i "II!I

6

Respondent has not proved the requirement of Section 9 of the said

Act.

In this regard Court cite the following case.

In the case of Muhandiram vs Chairman No.1 Janatha Estate

Development Board (1992) 1 SLR page 110. It was held:

In an Inquiry under the State Lands (Recovery of Possession)

Act, the onus is on the person summoned to establish his possession

or occupation that is possessed or occupied upon a valid permit or

other written authority of the State granted according to any written

law. It is this burden that is not discharged, the only option opened

to the Magistrate is to order ejectment.

In the Magistrates Court inquiry, the Petitioner Appellant was

not summoned to show cause. Hence, the Petitioner Appellant is not

entitled to raise any of the above objections in this Revision

Application.

The burden on a Respondent in an inquiry under Section 9 was

considered by Justice Grero in the case of Muhandiram vs Chairman,

JEDB. It was held (/ In this case that the burden is on the person

noticed to establish that he is in possession on a valid permit and/or

other written authority of the State granted according to any written

law. If the party noticed fails to discharge this burden that the court

could make its order of ejectment".

In this matter that the Respondent has failed to prove his objections

. in the Magistrates Court proceedings. The Petitioner Appellant Union was

not a party to the Magistrates Court inquiry provisions of State Lands Act

applies only to the person who is in actual and physical

possession/occupation of the premises in question. Therefore, there is no

alternative for the learned Magistrate other than to allow the application

of the Plaintiff Respondent (Competent Authority).

If the Appellant Petitioner is aggrieved by the Magistrate's Order and

he has been wrongfully ejected from the disputed land, he has alternative

remedy under Section 13 of the State Lands (Recovery of PosseSSion) Act.

Under Section 13 of the Act any person aggrieved by the Magistrates Order

is entitled to recover reasonable compensation from the Competent

Authority.

f

f

f,

II

{

,It

I

I am of the view, Order of the learned High Court Judge of I<andy is a

well considered order as the learned High Court Judge has taken to

consideration both relevant facts and law when arriving at the decision on

20th June 2002.

It is only the aggrieved party can show exceptional circumstances for

seeking relief by way of Revision. The petitioner has failed to establish

exceptional circumstances in this application. In Hotel Galaxy (Pvt) Ltd., vs

Mercantile Hotels Ltd., 1987 (1) SLR 5 "It is settled law that the exercise of

revisionary powers of the Appellant confined to cases in which exceptional

circumstances exists warranting its intervention".

Applying the principles laid down in the above judicial decisions, the

Court holds that the 2nd Respondent is not entitled to raise the question

whether the Respondent was a dependant of the Petitioner Appellant in

the Magistrates Court proceedings. Further I hold that the Magistrate court

proceedings reveal that the 2nd Respondent was in actual physical

possession of the dispute premises. Therefore I am of the view that there is

no reason to disturb the findings of the learned Magistrate and the learned

, , IIf !t

f.

~ t I ~ I l

t I

·1 iI ! ,

•

High Court Judge. The learned High Court Judge has correctly affirmed the

Order of the learned Magistrate and rejected the Revision Application.

For the aforesaid reasons the Revision Application of the Petitioner

Appellant is dismissed.

Application is dismissed. .

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

Salam J.,

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

JI

\I

II

I

t I