==== BLOCKS ==== 

\ I

•

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 216/2009 (Writ)

Ajith Priyantha Hettiarachchi

No. 604, Main Street,

Kaduruwela, Polonnaruwa.

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. N. P. Panditharathne

Divisional Secretary,

Divisional Secretariat,

Thamankaduwa.

lA. E. M. D. S. Ekanayake

Divisional Secretary

Divisional Secretariat,

Thamankaduwa.

2. Commissioner of Lands

No.7, Gregory's Avenue,

Land Commissioner's Department

Colombo 7.

3. R. K. S. Sarathchandra Wijesinghe

Provincial Land Commissioner,

North Central Province,

Provincial Land Commissioner's Department,

Anuradhapura.

1

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERATNE J.

8. Hon. Attorney General

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Deepali Wijesundera J.

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

AND 04 OTHERS

RESPONDENTS

Razik Zarook P.c. with Rohana Deshapriya and

Chanaka Liyanage for the Petitioner

Yuresha Fernando S.c., for 1st - 3rd & 8th Respondents

H. Withanachchi for the 4th Respondent

23.05.2013

31.10.2013

2

This Writ Application pertains to the issue of permits under the Land

Development Ordinance. Petitioner claims to be the occupier of State land as

described as lot 1129 2/3 in Survey General's Plan No. ISPP22 & FTP9 and plan 38.

Writ of Certiorari is sought to quash letter marked P25 and a Writ of Prohibition

•

3

to prohibit the holding of any further inquiries or issue of permits as per P25. A

mandamus is sought to grant a permit to the Petitioner as prayed for in his

petition. It is pleaded that Petitioner's father one H.W Piyaratne was granted an

annual permit (P1) with effect from 9.5.1983. In the submission it was mentioned

that the Petitioner's grandfather (Alwis) was the original permit holder. Although

writs are sought, the grievance of the Petitioner is mainly against the 4th

Respondent, who also would be entitled to some land as per letter P25. 4th

Respondent as pleaded by the Petitioner is in possession of two buildings of the

land in question.

Petitioner seeks to establish in a way, that he continued to reside on

the land in dispute after the demise of his parents (vide Death Certificate P4 &

P5). Letter P9 is not denied or rejected by the Petitioner. i.e to issue permits

based on possession of Petitioner and 4th Respondent. P9 is dated 1.6.2004. I also

find reports P10a & P10b pertaining to Petitioner and building permit P11

(recommendation to build in favour of Petitioner). Documents P12, P13 & P14 are

favourable to the Petitioner. However there is no finality for same .. We have also

made a note of several other documents placed before court, by the Petitioner

e.g disturbance to possession, Magistrate's court proceedings etc.

1 I I

•

4

The case of the Petitioner with the documents produced on his

behalf place more emphasis on legitimate expectation. Oe.cision of the authorities

concerned is more on a equitable basis to divide the land in dispute equally,

between Petitioner and 4th Respondent.

The learned State Counsel invited this court to the contents of the

documents and pleadings submitted on behalf of 2nd & 3

rd Respondents. 2Rl a

certified copy of the approval for long term lease in favour of 'Alwis'. Since it was

found that 'Alwis' had disposed parts of the land to two others, it was decided to

lease unto Alwis only the portions of land he was in possession. (2R2). Accordingly

a fresh approval signed by Alwis submitted (2R3). These Respondents emphasis

that at the time of death Alwis possessed on a lease for 30 years and not on a

permit in terms of the Land Development Ordinance as claimed by the Petitioner.

Document Pi is an annual permit and is not an annual lease as claimed by the

Petitioner (issued to H.W. Piyaratne). The said Piyaratne was issued an annual

permit prior to the above mentioned lease to Alwis was finalized in 1984.

However with the demise of Alwis on 11.11.1984, the lease and administrative

procedures relating to it came to an end and Wilbert Piyaratne continued with

the annual permit.

•

5

The 4th Respondent's position is that during the life time of the

original permit holder (father of the Petitioner) Wilbert Piyaratne and -4th

Respondent resided on the land under their father, Alwis. 4th Respondent denies

P1 is a valid document. It is revealed that H.W. Piyaratne and 4th Respondents

were brought up and adopted by the original permit holder Alwsi (the position of

the state is that Alwis was given only a lease), as his own children. The said

Piyaratna and the 4th Respondents were children. The said Piyaratne and the 4th

Respondents were living in the same household of the putative father Alwis (4R1

& 4R2). I would refer to some of the paragraphs in the affidavit of the 4th

Respondent for purposes of clarity.

(i) That prior to the death of the father of the 4th Respondent, Alwis the

then Land Commissioner had taken steps to grant a long lease (99 years)

to him and matter got delayed due to the fact that the said Alwis had

disposed of two small extents from the said land.

(ii) That thereafter by letter dated 09.05.1983 the Assistant Land

Commissioner of Polonnaruwa under Ref. No. L/13/2386 made a

recommendation that the said Alwis should be given long lease of the

area which was actually in his possession.

(iii) That the said Commissioner by letter dated 05.10.1984 had notified, the

said Alwis to be present on any weekday with 2 witnesses in order to

sign the instruments relating to the long lease.

6

(iv) That while the long lease was being finalized in favour of the father, the

said Wilbert Piyaratne had surreptitiously obtained an annual permit

(P1) which was void lab initio' owing to the fact that the permit granted

to Alwis was in operation up to the time of his death in November, 1984.

(v) That the Action bearing No. 4081/L instituted by the said Piyaratne

against the 4th Respondent in the District Court of Polonnaruwa claiming

title was dismissed on 24.07.2002.

(vi) That in the meantime the petitioner instituted Testamentary Case No.

32/T /97 in the District Court of Polonnaruwa for the proof of Last will

purportedly executed by the said Piyaratne in which the land in suit was

also included.

(vii) That however after objections by the 4th Respondent the probate in the

case was confined only to the land also given by the State on permit,

containing in extent 1A 1R 22P.

(Viii) That during the lifetime of the father of the said Piyaratne and the 4th

Respondent, the desire and the intention was that the land in suit

should devolve on the two sons equally and the said Alwis had deposed

to an affidavit dated 15.01.1984 to that effect.

This court having considered the case of each party is of the view that the

authorities concerned had from time to time heard both the Petitioner and the 4th

Respondent and arrived at an equitable proper decision in letter P25 on the basis

of whatever rights flowing to both Petitioner and 4th Respondent from their

putative father. We are not inclined to extend the writ jurisdiction of this court to

7

disturb the impugned decisions contained in letter P25. The Petitioner cannot be

entitled to a major share. Land Development Ordinance was enacted to provide

for the systematic development and alienation of state land. As such the

authorities concerned with that view, decided upon an equitable alienation when

issuing letter P25. Further the authorities concerned had fulfilled the required

public and statutory purpose to arrive at the decision in P25. The documents

presented by the Petitioner may given rise to an expectation but certainly it

cannot be described as {legitimate expectation', the required standard adopted in

law in writ applications.

This court observes that mere favourable documentation presented

at a certain point of time should not be the basis to issue prerogative writs, which

is a discretionary remedy of court. There is no total denial of entitlement to the

property as far as the Petitioner is concerned. Authorities concerned had made it

very clear after inquiry, may be at various stages of the proceedings the method

of distribution of the property in dispute. As such a decision made by the official

Respondents cannot be subject to the writ jurisdiction of this court. Petitioner has

not been successful in establishing a proper basis to consider the issuance of a

8

Writ of Certiorari. There is no public or a statutory duty to be fulfilled, since the

authorities, we find had followed the prevailing and applicable regulations, and as

such Writ of Mandamus cannot be issued.

We would before concluding this judgment incorporate in this

judgment the following authorities pertaining to Mandamus, which need to be

considered.

P.K. Benerjee vs. L.T. Symond. His Lordship further stated that:

Whether the facts show the existence of any or all prerequisites to the granting of the writ is a

question of law in each case to be decided not in any rigid or technical view of the question but

according to a sound and reasonable interpretation. The court will not grant a Mandamus to

enforce a right, not of a legal but of a purely equitable nature however extreme the

inconvenience to which the applicant might be put.

The Court of Appeal in A.K.Azmy and N.P.M. Iqbal v. Tissa Attanayaka and 5

Others:

held that a ministerial function (performance of a duty as prescribed by the law and not a

discretionary function) is not amenable to the prerogative writ jurisdiction.

In Eksath Kamkaru Samithiya v. Commissioner of Labour and Others.

The Court of Appeal per J.A De Silva J held that the cardinal principle of law relating to the writ

of mandamus is that the writ lies to compel a person to perform an act only when there is a

duty cast on such person to do so. In this case a writ of mandamus was sought to compel the

i , 1 , I I f I

~ I i

\ I

f ! I I II

f I

J f t I I {I

t

I

I

9

Commissioner of Labour to hold a fresh inquiry into a complaint made by the petitioner under

the Termination of Employment Act. His Lordship held that there is no obligation or legal duty

cast on the Commissioner of Labour to make an order under Section 6 of the Termination of

Employment Act.

It has been held that matters within the purview of private law do not attract remedies

available in public law.

In Mendis v. Seemasahitha Panadura Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya and

Others, S.N. Silva J. held that:

... the writ of mandamus lies to enforce the performance of a statutory duty by a Pubic

Authority. The enforcement of a contract of employment pertaining to a company registered

under the Company Law is regulated by its articles of association and is solely a matter within

the purview of Private Law and not a matter for judicial review.

In all the above circumstances we are not inclined to grant relief to

the Petitioner. As such we dismiss this application without costs.

~:J2 G"0~a., '-1) c:-~

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Deepali Wijesundera J. (1 I agree.

'Jt~d1

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

(