==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOcrATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

l.Rajapakse Vithanalage Roosan Nona

And five others.,

All of No 983, Katukurunda Road,

Kottawa, Pnnipitiya.

PLAINTIFFS

Court of appeal No 1087/96 p..

D.C.Homagama Case No 1850/P

Newton Dabare,

No 20/5, Hokandara South,

Hokandara.

9th DEFENDANT-PETITIONER

Vs

Nape Vithange Buddhasiri Gunapala,

981, Malabe Road, Kottawa'

Pannipitiya.

3rd DEFENDANT-RESPONDENT

I

Before: H.N.J.Perera, J

AND

Newton Dabare,

No 20/5, Hokandara South,

Hokandara.

9th DEFEN DANT -PETITION ER-

APPELLANT

Vs

Nape Vithange Buddhasiri Gunapala,

981, Malabe Road, Kottawa,

Pannipitiya.

3rd DEFENDANT-RESPONDENT-

RESPONDENT

Counsel: Ranjan Suwandaratne for the 9th Defendant-appellant

Anil Silva, P.C. for the substituted 3rd Defendant-

Respondent

Argued On: 26.07.2013

Decided On: 08.11.2013

r

H.N.J.Perera, J.

This appeal has been made by the 9th defendant-petitioner-

appellant from an order made by the learned District Judge refusing

to set aside an order made on 14.09.1992 granting a writ of

possession to the 3rd defendant-respondent.

The 3rd defendant-respondent had on or about 1st September,

1992, made an application for a writ of possession in relation to

lot 10 of the final plan and thereafter executed and evicted the

appellant from the said lot without any notice to him.

Thereafter on29.09.1992 the appellant made an application under

section 839 of the Civil Procedure Code seeking inter-alia for a

declaration that the writ issued on 14th September, 1992 has been

made per incuriam and also moved to restore the appellant back to

the possession of lot 10 in final plan No 1761.Thereafter after

inquiry order had been delivered rejecting the said application of

the appellant with costs. The 9th defendant-appellant's contention

was that the delivery of possession was issued without notice to

and after a lapse of 10 years from the date of the decree.

When this matter was taken up for argument the main issue that

was before this court was whether there was a ten years limitation

as regards execution of delivery of possession in a partition action.

As this is an application relating to a partition action Section 52 of

the Partition Law applies. Section 52 of the Partition Law reads as

follows:-

(1)Every party to a partition action who has been declared to be

entitled to any land by any final decree entered under this

law and every person who has purchased any land at any sale

I !

held under this law and in whose favour a certificate of sale

in respect of the land so purchased has been entered by the

Court, shall be entitled to obtain from the court, in the same

action, on application made by motion in that behalf, an order

for the delivery to him of possession of the land:

Provided that where such party is liable to pay any amount as

owelty or as compensation for improvements, he shall not be

entitled to obtain such order until that amount is paid.

(2) ........ .

On a reading of section 52 it is clear that the Legislature has not

imposed a time limit for an application seeking the delivery of

possession in a Partition Action.

It was held in Munidasa & Others V Nandasena [2001] 2 Sri L.R. 224

that Section 52(a) of Act No 17 on 1997 not only protects the

interest of a person who has directly obtained title from a decree

but also persons who have derived title from such person.

It was the contention of the Counsel for the Appellant that any writ

of possession in a partition action should necessarily be obtained

within a period of 10 years of the entering of the final decree and

no application for writ of possession can be issued after the lapse

of 10 years from the date of the entering of the final decree

specially in view of the fact any third party who is in possession of

an allotment at the time of the entering of the final decree has a

right to prescribe to such allotment after 10 year period. It was

further submitted that the provision contained in section 79 of the

Partition Law which states that when there is no specific provision

is provided in the Partition law with regard to the procedure the

provisions of the Civil Procedure Code should be followed if such

I l

procedure is not inconsistent with the provisions of the Partition

Law.

In Munidasa & Others V Nandasena it was very clearly held that:

(1)The Partition Law provides a specific remedy, the plaintiff

Respondent is not entitled to resort to provisions of the Civil

Procedure Code. The provisions of the Partition Act are

mandatory provisions and provides a simple and easy remedy

of obtaining delivery of possession.

(2) The provisions of the Civil Procedure Code could be made use

of as regards the formalities of execution of writs etc., but

regarding delivery of possession of land to parties and

purchasers, application should be made under section 52 of

the Partition Act.

It was further held in that case that as this being a partition action

the plaintiff-respondent is entitled to proceed under section 52 and

53, if he wishes to obtain delivery of possession of the land, and it

will be open to the Defendant-Petitioners to take up any defence

they chooses should proceedings be initiated under section 53 of

the Partition Law ..

In Samarakoon Vs S.M.Punchi Banda 78 NLR 525 it was held that

the provisions of section 337 of the Civil Procedure Code do not

apply where a party to a partition action applies to court for an

order to put him in possession of the lot allotted to him in the final

decree. The correct procedure that should be adopted is set out in

section 52 of the Partition Act. In the above case, the plaintiff-

appellant made a second application for an order for delivery of

possession of the lots to which he was declared entitled to in the

final decree after 10 years of the first application. This application

was refused by the learned District Judge upholding that section

I 1

I I

337 of the Civil Procedure Code applied. In view of the conclusion

that section 337 of the Civil Procedure Code does not apply to an

application under section 52 of the Partition Act the order was set

aside.

Udalagama, J. Held:-

II And under section 53 a court exerclsmg its jurisdiction in a

partition action has full power to give effect to every order made in

the action including the power to order delivery of possession of

any or portion of land to any person entitled thereto and to punish

as for contempt court any person who disobeys any such order.

These sections are in my view, compendious enough, to give

effectual possession to a party, who has been allotted shares in a

final decree. There is, therefore no necessity to resort to the

provisions, dealing with execution proceedings, in the Civil

Procedure Code ........ .

As there provision for the taking of possession of a lot declared in a

final partition decree, there is no necessity to resort to the

provisions of the Civil Procedure Code and section 79 of the

Partition Act. If the fiscal is resisted, he will report the resistance to

court and the procedure set out in section 53 of the Partition Act

will apply. In an application made in terms of section 52(1) of the

Partition Law for the delivery of possession of a particular

allotment decreed or sold in a partition action, it is not required

that a person be made a respondent.

In the proceedings under section 53, it will be open to the party

resisting, to satisfy the court, that his resistance did not constitute

a contempt of the court. This he could do, for example by showing

that he had prescribed to the said lot after the final decree had

f I

been entered, and the party applying for an order of possession

under section 52, had no right to be given possession of the land."

Therefore it could be said that the correct procedure that should be

adopted in giving possession of a divided lot, to a party who had

been declared entitled to it under a final partition decree, is set out

in Section 52 of the Partition Law. It is settled law that section 337

of the Civil Procedure Code has no application in cases where

applications for delivery of possession under the Partition Law are

made. The provisions of Civil Procedure Code could be made use of

as regards the formalities of execution of writs etc., but regarding

the delivery of possession of land to parties and purchasers,

application should be made under section 52 of the Partition Law.

Therefore I hold that the 3rd defendant-respondent is entitled to

obtain an order for delivery of possession of the said lot 10 and the

order of the learned District Judge dated 04.10.1996 and delivered

on 19.11.1996 is affirmed. I make no order as to costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL