==== BLOCKS ==== 

/

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A 107611998 (F) D.C. Panadura Case No. 436fL

F athima N aseeda Saheed No. 26, Krisp Road, Galle.

PLAINTIFF

Vs.

Abdul Latiff Mohamed Gaus No. 43, Horethuduwa, Moratuwa.

DEFENDANT

Fathima Naseeda Saheed No. 26, Krisp Road, Galle.

PLAINTIFF -APPELLANT

Vs.

Abdul Latiff Mohamed Gaus No. 43, Horethuduwa, Moratuwa.

DEFENDANT -RESPONDENT

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERA TNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J.

Rohan Sahabandu for the Plaintiff-Appellant

Manohara de Silva P.C with Pubudini Wickremaratne F or Defendant-Respondent

30.01.2012

10.05.2012

2

This was an action filed in the District Court of Panadura, for a

declaration of title to 1I28th portion of the land described in the schedule to

the plaint, and eviction of the Defendant. The schedule to the plaint

describes the land in question as lot 'E' - Ketelagawatte in extent of about 1

Rood and shown in plan 5934 of 17.2.1962. Plaintiffs case is that her

husband one A. Jausaki was entitled to 321112 share of the above lot 'E' as

pleaded in paragraphs 1 to 11 of the plaint. Upon the death of her husband

Plaintiff states she is entitled to 1I26th share of lot 'E' and her 4 children

were entitled to the balance share of 7/28 of the land in dispute. Plaintiff also

3

claim prescriptive title. According to the Plaintiff, the Defendant entered the

land on 26.03.1989 and erected a fence and disputed Plaintiff's title.

Parties proceeded to trial on 1 7 issues and 1 admission. It was

admitted that from the land described in the schedule to the plaint, the

Plaintiff would be only entitled to 1/28 portion of the land described therein.

Notwithstanding the said admission, the Defendant denied the matters urged

by Plaintiff. The Defendant in the answer has averred that schedule A & B

of the land described in the answer and purchased from H.L.M Jausakin in

1978 and one Mais and possessed since 1978 respectively. Lots A & Bare

adjoining blocks possessed and Defendant claim prescriptive title.

The Defendant-Respondent's Issues are focused and

incorporated in issue Nos. 16 & 17 more particularly whether the above

named A. Jausaki has transferred his rights to the Defendant or whether the

Defendant-Respondent has prescribed to the land in dispute (issue 16 which

incorrectly refer to the Plaint - where as it should be answer). Plaintiff a co-

owner seems to have filed this suit against the Defendant-Respondent on the

basis that the Defendant-Respondent is a trespasser. Co-owner might sue a

trespasser to have his title to the undivided share declared and evict him

from the entire land without joining other co-owners. (17 NLR 49 & 1996

(1) SLR 358,52 NLR 430)

4

At the hearing of this appeal learned Counsel for Appellant and

learned President's Counsel for Respondent made submissions and made

reference to certain items of evidence. However there is something very

significant in the judgment which, this court is bound to comment and also

wish to emphasis that mere possession would not suffice to satisfy the

requirements of Section 3 of the Prescriptive Ordinance. The Original Court

should not have lost sight of the all important admission recorded at the trial.

All the issues except issue Nos. 8, 10, 11, 12, 16 & 17 are answered as 'does

not arise'. Therefore this court is reluctantly compelled to observe that the

trial Court has failed to comply with the mandatory provisions contained in

Section 187 of the Civil Procedure Code. Issue Nos. 1 & 2 referring to the

original ownership had been answered as 'does not arise'. This appears to be

no proper answer contemplated by the Civil Procedure Code. Issue Nos. 3 &

4 relating to possession of original owner and transfer of the respective lots

should not be answered in this manner. Court should give an affirmative or

negative answer since this necessarily connect evidence led at the trial and to

answer same as does not arise would give rise to doubts as to whether the

Original Court considered the evidence led at the trial at all? Documents PI

- P8 are all important documents to be considered along with oral evidence.

5

The trial judge refer to PI - P5 and the evidence of Plaintiff, but this court is

unable to ascertain the real meaning of the answer 'does not arise' as stated

by the trial Judge ..

The answers to issue Nos. 8 & 9 would demonstrate some form

of inconsistency, if one peruse the admission recorded at the trial. Parties

admitted that Plaintiff owns 1/28th share of the land in dispute. I have no

reason to doubt the submission of learned Counsel for Plaintiff-Appellant in

this regard.

All persons and Attorneys involved in Civil practice in a Court

of Law would be mindful of the position that once issues are framed

pleadings are crystallized in the issues. Requirement under Section 187 of

the Code cannot be ignored and the only argument that could be advanced is

to consider same in the light of article 13 8( I) proviso to the Constitution.

However having considered the evidence and the issues framed in this case,

Court cannot conclude that no prejudice had been caused to the plaintiff.

Trial Judges failure to comment on vital aspect of the evidence would

necessarily prejudice the substantial rights of Plaintiff, and result in an

failure of justice being caused to Plaintiff having produced oral and

documentary evidence to prove the case of the Plaintiff. Bare answers to

6

issues without reasons would amount to non compliance with Section 187 of

the Code. Warnakula Vs. Ramani Jayawardena 1990 (1) SLR 286; NLR

337,59 NLR 214 CLW 167.

Sopi Nona V s. Cornelis. 210 BARL Supreme Court held it is

essential for the trial Judge in order to meet out justice in a fair and rational

manner to consider the evidence led on points of contest. The case in hand

does not give cogent reasons to reject Plaintiffs case, but merely refer to

deed V2 and oral evidence of mere position.

I wish to state that I am unable to endorse the views of the

learned District Judge since majority of the issues answered in the judgment

state 'does not arise'. Evidence germane to each issue must be reviewed and

examined. Let me also consider the evidence led on behalf of the Defendant-

Respondent. More particularly the evidence relied and adverted by

Defendant and the aspects of that evidence considered by the trial judge, as

follows:

(a) District Judge refer to the evidence of Somapala Fernando and one

Nalin called by the Respondent. Witness Nalin testified that his

hardware had been stocked in the land in dispute to prove Defendant-

Respondent possession on the basis land was sold to him. Stocking of

hardware was between 1984 - 1999 according to the evidence. Action

7

was filed on or about 1989. This does not cover the required period of

prescription as at date of plaint. Trial Judge has not been able to

gather this point.

(b) The Grama Sevaka (Fernando), was also cultivation officer from 1978

-1989. Evidence point to the fact that there was plantation and

thereafter hardware on the land in question. In cross examination,

witness admitted that he became aware that Defendant-Respondent

possessed the land which was bear land after finding out from the

neighbours, which is hearsay evidence. This witness does not provide

direct evidence. (Pg 84). Trial Judge cannot possibly rely on the

evidence of the above witnesses (as in 'a' & 'b') to corroborate the

Defendant-Respondent's possession.

(c ) Plaintiff s lawyers preparation of deed 01, was not a proper deed in

law. 01 was a document supposed to be a deed but not signed or

registered as required by the provisions of the Registration of

Documents Ordinance. However the trial Judge accept such position

but admit the document as a document to favour the Defendant's

possession of the land. In the judgment the following extract may be

noted:

E)rn8)00~ @~E)@@&l5 @~aarn oo®~ es~(%)6) 5)~@~6) er~ e>@ @ID@

OO§}C) E)~~ ere)clC)}@E) @~5) @~ OO~e)&l5 ~ @~aarn 005) ~rn e>@

OO~@E) ero~ @ei)J E)~~00~@cs5 ei)} CS)~~00~@cs5 5)@ er~e5J@rn

@&l)}C) 5)~6) erOlo ~(5)}00~ e5J~ @~@5)&l5 ei)} (%)}~oo~e)~ errn(%)~ 00

er~8) Q)e)C) ro} er~8) erOlo e>@ @~E)@@ @~aarn oo~@~ e>@

8

@co~@@@5S ercoBX.o az;e)oz;em coco B>®C) @e5)}e) e>® (i)~@~ ~e5)@c.6 BC)

@ID® @85583 ~~e5) IDe) (i)~ sa®C) IDe)eD ~eD83ooz; OO} erz;rn.

This court observes that issue No. 10 has been simply answered

in the negative. In this regard as regards the disturbance that took place on

27.3.1999 Plaintiff placed oral evidence and produce the police statement

(P7). Defendant did not offer any evidence on this point. Trial Judge simply

rejects issue 10 without any reasons since in a rei vindication suit, the

Plaintiff claiming a declaration need to have title. Plaintiff seems to have

produced and led sufficient evidence of title supported by an admission

recorded at the trial. Therefore in a case of this nature if the trial court

chooses to reject such position such court need to properly and correctly

record a suitable answer with reasons. Moreover title has been established

and as such the burden would shift to the Defendant-Respondent to prove

that he possess the property in dispute legally. As such issue 10 need to be

answered with cogent reason. Trial judge makes no reference regarding the

disturbance as raised in issue No. 10.

I have also considered the following submissions of Plaintiff-

Appellant, which submissions are incorporated in this judgment as follows,

since I am not in a position to reject same, and this court is convinced of

such position.

9

1. The evidence is that, the main land was about 1 Y2 Acres and there

were 3 lots - A + B + E - and the action was filed in respect of Lot E

- the evidence was that this was owned by 4 parties - who later sold

their shares. One of the 4 owners - Pathuma according to the evidence

sold his rights to one Premadsa in 1972. The other co-owner - Fawzie

who laleel the other co-owner had sold his share to Premadasa - and

the last co-owner Muvis was dead.

2. The defendant's position was that, the plaintiffs husband and his

brothers by a deed transferred the land to the defendant. This was

denied by the plaintiff. The other witness who gave evidence for the

plaintiff was one Razik -he was the owner of Lot B in Plan

380/28.9.1962. The defendant tried to show that he sold the land to

the defendant - this is wrong (page 51). When this witness was giving

evidence, the defendant tried to produce a document D 1 which he

tried to call a "Deed".

3. The initial position of the witness was that he did not sing the said

document D 1. D 1 which is not a deed - was allegedly witnessed by

this witness. According to the defendant, the plaintiff s husband and

his brothers transferred Lot E to the defendant. Razich' s position was

that - he only signed a deed when he transferred Lot B - and not Lot

E- as he was not an owner, and that, he did not witness the document

Dl.

10

The learned President's counsel who appeared for the

Respondent supported the judgment of the learned District Judge and

submitted inter alia that document D 1, though not a deed, same was

produced in court for another purpose, i. e to demonstrate to court that the

Respondent possessed the land and that consideration was in fact (Rs.3000/-)

was paid to Plaintiff s deceased husband and that with such possession the

Respondent prescribed to the land in dispute. D 1 had been signed by

witnesses. Learned President' s Counsel also submitted that it was the

deceased Plaintiffs husband who placed the Respondent in possession. He

also drew the attention of this court to certain items of evidence to prove

possession of Respondent. On payment of Rs. 3000/- to deceased Jausaki,

Respondent immediately possessed the land in dispute. There is also

reference to plan No. 381 and in evidence the deceased Jausaki showed the

plan in 1975 and stated that he would sell the land to Respondent. In that

way President's Counsel emphasized that Respondent was in possession

from 1975 - 1989. The other argument adduced on behalf of Respondent

was the Plaintiffs answer to court failing to categorically deny or answer

that there was no sale to Respondent by her husband.

11

Plaintiff merely states she is unaware. Counsel also suggests that evidence

led by Defendant remains uncontradicted. Cited the case of Edrik Sivla. 70

NLR 179.

Having considered both sides of this case in appeal I am

inclined to take the point of view of the Appellant more particularly to the

several lapses discussed above pertaining to the judgment of the Original

Court. When paper title is proved the burden would shift to the other party

which need to be discharged properly. Mere assertions of possession would

not suffice in the circumstances of this case. A person who wish to succeed

in prescription must meet the requirement of high order of proof to establish

adverse possession. In all cases of prescription there must be a denial of title,

an exclusion of the contesting owner and an adverse possession. 6 CWR

225. In Juliana Hamine Vs. Don Thomas 59 NLR 546 per L.W. de Silva J .

. . . When a witness giving evidence of prescriptive possession and states "I

possessed' or "we possessed" the Court should insist on those words being

explained and exemplified. 21 NLR 321 followed the above dicta (Full

Bench) Thomas Vs. Thomas (1855 J K & J. 79,69 ER 701) English Courts

held, "possession is never considered adverse if it can be referred to a lawful

title" .

12

In the instant case I do not wish to be unreasonably harsh to

insists on possession described by the Defendant-Respondent to be

explained or exemplified in a very strict manner. However when an

admission has been recorded re-title of Plaintiff s, statement of mere

possession cannot be relied upon to stretch it to be adverse possession

specially where the supporting witnesses of the Respondent was unable to

offer precise proof of possession and gave only hearsay evidence.

I am also compelled to comment on document VI. Certainly it

is not a deed. Though the Respondent's position seem to be that it was

produced for a limited purpose - re - to prove possession, I am firmly of the

view that nothing flows from same, and is only a peace of paper with some

signatures. V 1 is more or less a blank paper There is no prior registration,

no number of the deed, 2nd page is again blank. There is no date or date of

signatory. No reference to consideration (amount). I reject whatever

evidence connecting document VI. No rights transferred by document VI.

lt must be noted that plan V2 was not made with the intention

of transferring the land to the Defendant. In fact Defendant admitted such

position. (Pg 57 of proceedings dated 12.12.1997). Only plan in Defendant-

Respondents favour is plan V4. made in 1985.4 years after V4 Plaintiff filed

this case. As such Defendant could not possibly rely on prescription

13

In all the above circumstances I am inclined to set aside the judgment

of the District Court. I allow this appeal with costs. Judgment to be entered

in favour of Plaintiff-Appellant as prayed for in the plaint.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL