==== BLOCKS ==== 

l

"

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA (PHC) 47/2007

HC Ratnapura Case No. HCR/RA 80/04

MC Embilipitiya 31312

Before : A.W.A. Salam, J &

Sunil Rajapakshe, J.

Parties absent and unrepresented.

Decided on : 21.10.2013

A.W.A. Salam, J.

Ranasinghage Podiappuhamy,

Aliwadiya, Ulliduwawa.

Petitioner-Petitioner-Appellant.

Vs.

1. Ranasinhage Lal Priyantha,

Hiare Kade, Deniyaya.

2. Karunaratne Weeraman

Piyaseeli, Hiare Kade, Deniyaya.

Respondent-Respondent-

Respondents.

This appeal arises on the judgement of the learned High Court judge

dated 26 March 2007. By the said judgement the learned High Court

judge, in the exercise of its revisionary powers dismissed the revision

application filed by the petitioner-petitioner-appellant (appellant)

challenging the propriety of a determination made by the learned

1

1

Magistrate in regard to dispute affecting land under and in terms of

Chapter VII of the Primary Court Procedure Act No 44 of 1979.

The proceedings in the Magistrate's Court as regards the dispute

affecting the land in question commenced with the filing of an affidavit

by the party referred to in the caption as Ranasinhage Podiappuhamy.

The parties involved in the dispute had filed affidavits and counter

affidavits and the learned magistrate came to the conclusion that the

second respondent has proved her possession of the subject matter at

least for a period of 10 years by production of documents marked as PI

to PI0. In a well considered determination the learned magistrate

having set out his reasons in detail directed that the second respondent

be restored to possession.

The learned High Court judge having carefully analysed the reasoning

adopted by the learned Magistrate came to the obvious conclusion that

the revision application filed by the appellant merits no favourable

consideration and proceeded to dismiss the same on that ground.

Having considered the impugned judgement of the learned High Court

judge, I am of the opinion that the appellant has not made out a case

before this court requiring the reversal of the impugned judgement. In

the circumstances, we are compelled to dismiss the appeal. There shall

be no costs.

Sunil Rajapakshe, J.

I agree.

NRj-

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Judge of the Court of Appeal

2

r \ t i t

II i i I