==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

C.A. Case No. 336/2015

(Expulsion)

In the matter of an application for under and in

terms of Section 63(1) of Provincial Councils

Elections Act No. 02 of 1988.

Hewa Anthonige Piyasena,

No. 79/2 - Boutique near the Temple,

Horapawita,

Kamburupitiya.

PETITIONER

-Vs-

1. United People's Freedom Alliance

No. 301, T.B. Jaya Mawatha,

Colombo 10.

2. A.D. Susil Premjayantha,

The General Secretary,

United People's Freedom Alliance,

No. 301, T.B. Jaya Mawatha,

Colombo 10.

2.a Wishwa Warnapala,

The General Secretary,

United People's Freedom Alliance,

No. 301, T.B. Jaya Mawatha,

Colombo 10.

1

2.b

3.

4.

5.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Mahinda Amaraweera,

The General Secretary,

United People's Freedom Alliance,

No. 301, T.B. Jaya Mawatha,

Colombo 10.

K.L. Dayananda,

The Secretary to the Southern Provincial Council,

Council Secretariat Office,

Bope Road, Kalegana,

Galle.

Mahinda Deashapriya,

Commissioner of Elections,

Elections Secretariat,

Sarana Road,

Rajagiriya.

Hon. Attorney General,

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

RESPONDENTS

Vijith K. Malalgoda, PC, J. (PICA)

A.H.M.D. Nawaz, J. and

H.C.J. Madawala J.

Razik Zarook, PC with Rohana Deashapriya and

Chanakya Uyanage for the Petitioner.

Janak de Silva, DSG for the 3rd, 4th and 5th

Respondent.

2

f

r

\

j I 1 1 1

Argued on

Decided on

ORDER OF COURT

24.03.2016

02.03.2017

By a petition dated 18th August 2015, the Petitioner has applied to this Court in terms

of Section 63 of the Provincial Councils Elections Act No.2 of 1988, challenging his

expulsion from the 1st Respondent-United People's Freedom Alliance (UPFA) which is

a recognized political party.

Factual Matrix

At all material times to this application, the 1st Respondent was a recognized political

party registered under and in terms of the provisions of the Parliamentary Elections

Act No. 1 of 1981, whilst the 2nd Respondent and 3rd Respondent were the General

Secretary of the United People's Freedom Alliance and the Secretary to the Southern

Provincial Council respectively.

The Petitioner states that he is a member of the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) and

after the formation of the political party under the name of the United People's

Freedom Alliance (UPFA), he became a member of the UPFA. Clause 10(2) of the

Constitution of the UPFA makes this position quite clear.

After this petition was filed, this Court issued notices on the 1st Respondent (the

United People's Alliance), 2nd Respondent (the General Secretary of the UPFA at the

material time), 3rd Respondent (the Secretary to the Southern Provincial Council), 4th

Respondent (the Commissioner of Elections) and the Honourable Attorney-General a

number of times but there have not been any representation for the 1st and 2

nd

Respondents. Even after the 2

nd Respondent was substituted, the current holders

and they were notice, there has not been any representation for those added

Respondents. The 3rd, 4th and 5th Respondents were represented by the Counsel for

the State.

3

.j

\ I I I

When this Court took up this matter for inquiry on 24.03.2016, the 1st and 2

nd

Respondents were not represented with the exception of the 3rd, 4th and 5th

Respondents who were represented by the learned Deputy Solicitor General. The

Deputy Solicitor General informed court that as they had not filed objections in the

matter, they would abide by the order of this Court.

The Gravamen of the Petitioner

The Petitioner has averred that he was last elected to the Southern Province

Provincial Council at the elections held on or around 29.03.2014 having obtained the

requisite preferential votes from Matara District contesting as a candidate of the

United People's Freedom Alliance-vide P2-the gazette notification officially listing

out the elected members of Matara District of the Southern Province. By P3 dated

06.08.2015, the Secretary of the United People's Freedom Alliance (UPFA) has

informed the Petitioner that he was expelled from the Alliance on the ground that he

had violated the policies and the constitution of the UPFA by becoming a candidate

at the General Election 2015 under an independent group for the Matara District. By

P4, the Petitioner has responded to P3 stating that since the expUlsion was illegal, he

would be seeking redress from the Court of Appeal. The Petitioner further alleges in

his petition that consequent to P2 (the letter of expulsion), he received a letter dated

11.08.2015 from the 3rd Respondent, Secretary of the Southern Provincial Council

notifying him that the Secretary of the UPFA by letter dated 06.08.2015 informed

that the Petitioner had been expelled from the UPFA consequent to which his

membership of the Southern Provincial Council would cease and the 3rd Respondent

sought confirmation whether the Petitioner had received the said letter-vide PS. The

Petitioner responded to P5 in the same tenor as he did as regards P4-his reply to the

2nd Respondent.

4

I ) I ! I

I I I I I I ! I 1 ,

1 I ) 1 1 ,

~

The Petitioner sought to contend at the inquiry before this Court that his expulsion

was invalid on several grounds. The following grounds were urged by Counsel for the

Petitioner - Mr. Razik Zarook, PC namely;

1. The Petitioner was not served with a formal charge sheet before the decision

to expel him was taken;

2. No disciplinary inquiry was held as per the Constitution of the UPFA;

3. The Petitioner was not afforded an opportunity to be heard;

4. The prinCiple of audi alteram partem was violated;

5. It was an ex parte decision;

6. The party took the decision without giving any reason or holding a proper

inquiry;

7. In terms of the Constitution of the UPFA, the 2nd Respondent (the General

Secretary of UPFA) has no power to take disciplinary action against the

Petitioner.

Scope and Ambit of the Inquiry under Section 63 of the Provincial Councils

Elections Act No.2 of 1988

Before this Court proceeds to pronounce its determination on the expulsion, this

Court bears in mind the scope and ambit of the provisions setting out the boundaries

of the inquiry under Section 63(1) of the Provincial Councils Elections Act No. 2 of

1988.

Section 63(1) of the Provincial Councils Elections Act No.2 of 1988 sets out the

following:-

"Where a member of a Provincial Council ceases, by resignation, expulsion or

otherwise, to be a member of a recognized political party or independent group

on whose nomination paper his name appeared at the time of his becoming

5

such member, his seat shall become vacant upon the expiration of a period of

one month from the date of his ceasing to be such member:

Provided that in the case of the expulsion of a member of a Provincial Council

his seat shall not become vacant if prior to the expiration of the said period of

one month he applies to the Court of Appeal by petition in writing and the

Court of Appeal upon such application determines that such expulsion was

invalid ....... "

The aforesaid provision clearly sets out as to when the jurisdiction of this Court to

embark on the inquiry to ascertain the validity or otherwise of an expulsion of an

elected member of a Provincial Council is triggered. If the Petitioner invokes the

jurisdiction of this Court prior to the expiration of one month of the expulsion, this

Court could assume jurisdiction to ascertain the vires of the expulsion and upon such

invocation of the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal within one month of the

expulsion, the Petitioner continues to enjoy his status as a member of the Provincial

Council until that status is determined by a declaration of this Court that the

expulsion is valid. The question before this Court is whether the Petitioner in the

instant application has made out a case of invalidity of his expulsion.

Jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal identical to that of the SC

As could be observed, the jurisdiction conferred on the Court of Appeal by the

proviso to Section 63(1) of the Provincial Councils Elections Act No. 2 of 1988, is

similar to the jurisdiction conferred on the Supreme Court by the proviso to Article

99(13)(a) of the Constitution in relation to members of Parliament. Fernando J. in

Dissanayake and Others v. Kaleel and Others1 expressed his view on the extent of

the Supreme Courtls jurisdiction under Article 99(13)(a) thus:

1 sc (Spl) 4 - 11/91- SC Mins of 03-12-1991 6

"Our jurisdiction under Article 99(13) (a) is not a form of judicial review or even

of appeal, but rather an original jurisdiction analogous to an action for a

declaration, though it is clearly not a rehearing. Are we concerned only with

the decision making process or must we look at the decision itself? Article 99

(13)(a) requires us to decide whether the expulsion was valid or invalid. Some

consideration of the merits is obviously required ... The burden, if any, must be

on the respondents, for it is the denial of natural justice by them which has

resulted in these proceedings. I have therefore to consider whether on the

merits the respondents have shown that the decision was a good one, thereby

disentitling the petitioners to relief, "

Dheeraratne J. described the boundaries of the court's jurisdiction thus in Tilak

Karunaratne v. Mrs. Sandaranaike and Other~

"it is not disputed that court's jurisdiction includes an investigation into the

requisite competence of the expelling authority; an investigation as to whether

the expelling authority followed the procedure if any which was mandatory in

nature, an investigation as to whether there was a breach of principles of

natural justice in the determining process; and an investigation as to whether

in the event of the grounds of expUlsion being specified by way of charges at a

domestic inquiry, the member was expelled on some other grounds which were

not so specified. "

It is clear from the foregoing and on the strength of the authority of Gooneratne and

Others v. Premachandra and Others3 that this court in exercising the jurisdiction

conferred on it by Section 63 of the Provincial Councils Elections Act, should inquire

whether the expelling body had:

i. acted within its jurisdiction;

2 (1993) 2 Sri.LR 90

3 (1994) 2 Sri.LR 137 7

[ II II , I II

f \

\

\

i I

I

\

I

ii. followed the procedure laid down in the Constitution of the party; and

iii. acted in compliance with the principles of natural justice before taking the

decision to expel the petitioners; and

iv. whether the grounds adduced for expelling the petitioners could be sustained;

and

v. whether their alleged misconduct if proved, merited the extreme punishment

meted out to them.

Breach of Principles of Natural Justice

The Petitioner has no doubt pleaded that there was an infringement of the rules of

natural justice in denying him the right to notice of the charges of alleged

misconduct against him, and the right to be heard in answer to those charges by an

unbiased tribunal. No response has been proffered by the 1st and 2

nd Respondent to

this accusation.

Justice Kulatunga, in Dissanayake4 observed that:

tithe right of a M.P. to relief under Article 99(13)(a) is a legal right and forms

part of his constitutional right as a M.P. If his complaint is that he has been

expelled from membership of his party in breach of the rules of natural justice,

he will ordinarily be entitled to relief; and this court may not determine such

expulsion to be valid unless there are overwhelming reasons warranting such

decision. Such decision would be competent only in the most exceptional

circumstances permitted by law and in furtherance of the public good the need

for which should be beyond doubt. II

The letter of expulsion (P3) dated 06.08.2015 traces the reason for expulsion of the

Petitioner from UPFA to the Petitioner becoming a candidate at the General

Elections 2015 under an independent group for the Matara District. On the

4 See Supra In 1 8

\

f

I

\

\ I f

I

I

[ It

rI I i I I

propositions laid down by Kulatunga J, the 1st and 2nd Respondents bear the burden

of satisfying this court that their failure to follow rules of natural justice was

warranted on the facts and circumstances of the case. In other words, they need to

justify that the petitioner's conduct amounted to a non compliance with the

constitution which constituted an exceptional circumstance warranting the expUlsion

without a hearing or that the expUlsion of the Petitioners was for the public good.

The test that has to be applied is an objective test and not a subjective test. The

Respondents have not placed any material before this court to satisfy this objective

test that an overwhelming reason or exceptional circumstances existed which

merited the expulsion of the Petitioners or that it was done for the public good.

Expulsion from an organisation ipso facto gives rise to misgivings of indiscipline and

suspicions of infractions of the rules, beliefs or customs of the association concerned.

In such a situation the member of such an organization against whom doubts about

his suitability to continue to be a member have been created should be afforded a

hearing before the specific charges are vindicated.

In this context it is apposite to quote the pertinent observations of Paul Jackson in his

seminal work on Natural Justice.s

"There are at least three justifications for requiring a hearing even where there

appears to be no answer to a charge. First, experience shows that

unanswerable charges may, if the opportunity be given, be answered;

inexplicable conduct be explained. Secondly, the party condemned unheard will

feel a sense of injustice. Thirdly, suspicion is inevitable that a body which

refuses a hearing before acting does so because of the lack of evidence not

because of its strength."

5 Natural Justice, Paul Jackson (Second Edition) 1979 at page 137 9

III

\ I. t

\!f I

I }I

f ,I I

As the sanction of expulsion spells a grave punishment, it is nothing bur fair that this

consequence follows upon the observance of audi alteram partem-the time

honoured incantation for everyone who decides anything.

Two principles of procedural impropriety have vied for observance by all inclusive of

judges who decide rights and liabilities. They are often classified as aspects of fair

play in action and have proved to be bulwarks for preserving rule of law in their

peremptory declarations that no man shall be condemned unheard and no man shall

be a judge in his own cause, as they are famously couched in the Latin tags audi

alteram partem and nemo iudex in re sua.

So the contention that the Petitioner was expelled without a charge sheet and a

concomitant hearing, in the absence of material to the contrary, has to be upheld.

This fact alone is sufficient to dispose of the issue before us-namely whether the

expulsion as notified in P3 dated 06.08.2015 is valid or not.

Applying the ratio of Dissanayake and Gooneratne,6 to the facts of this application,

we hold that the Respondents have failed to observe the principles of natural justice

and as such the expulsion as notified in P3 cannot be supported. Thus we determine

that the expulsion of the Petitioner as communicated in the letter dated 06.08.2015

is invalid. We grant a declaration to this effect.

Vijith K. Malalgoda, PC, J. (PICA)

A.H.M.D. Nawaz, J.

H.C.J. Madawala J.

6 See Supra In 1 and In 3 10

i ! f I i r It

I

\

\ ,

f !

\

f t

r

t

\ !

f,

\ I

\ ,

\ !

\

f