==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C A Writ Application No: 314/13

1. All Ceylon Railway Employees' General Union, 2. Sumathipala Pituwala Withanage, President, 3. Sumathipala Manawadu, Secretary, All Are Ceylon Railway Employees' General Union, 78/6, Union House, Bastian Mawatha, Colombo 11.

Petitioners Vs. 1. Sri Lanka Railways. D.R.Wijewardena Mawatha, Colombo 10. 2. B.A.P. Ariyarathne. General Manager, General Manager's Office, Sri Lanka Railways, No.355, Colombo 10. 3. Dhammika Perera, Secretary, Ministry of Transport and Highways, D.R.Wijewardene Mawatha, Colombo 10.

Respondents

I I

1

C.A Writ 314/2013

BEFORE ANIL GOONERATHNE, J

COUNSEL Upul Kumarapperuma with Kaushalya Perera

for the Petitioner.

ARGUED &

DECICED ON 23.01.2014.

ANIL GOONERATHNE, J.

Learned counsel submit to this court this matter was supported

before this bench on 06.12.2013. This court having noted the reliefs

sought informed counsel on the said date to obtain instructions from

his client. However learned counsel informs court that he has no

instructions from his client and inform court that order could be made

accordingly.

This court heard counsel in support of this application on the

previous date. This is an application for a writ of mandamus as prayed

for in para (ii) of the prayer to the petition. The said para reads thus:-

Issue and grant a mandate in the nature of a Writ of Mandamus,

directing the 1 st ,2nd and 3rd respondents to assign an office space

comprised of appropriate facilities for the proper and the smooth

I

J

2

functioning of the 1 st Petitioner Union. Perusal of the prayer and the

averments contained in the body of the petition, it appears to this

court that this is not a suitable remedy to extend the writ jurisdiction

of this court. There is no public or statutory right disclosed in the

body of the petition. It is the view of this court that writ of mandamus

does not lie. Further granting of any office space and to grant facilities

is not a matter for court and which is a matter that could not come

within a purview of court of law. Having observed that there is no

public and statutory duty disclosed in the petition, this court has no

alternative but to reject this application. Application dismissed. No

costs.

G1YCs~~

JUDGE OF ~APPEAL.

Vkg/-

i

r

I} , ,I