==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA. C.A. (PHC) No.16/2012 PHC Kegalle No.3817/Rev

Henapola Kade Watte Gedara Somapala Ranasinghe Kosgolla,Hettimulla. Buluruppa. Pradeep Ranasinghe Kosgolla,Hettimulla. Buluruppa.

2nd & 3rd Respondents-Petitioners-Appellants Vs. Ambalakandalage Piyadasa Sandamali. Buluruppa.Hettimulla.

1st Respondent-Respondent-Respondent Hewayalage Premarathna Lankapurage Edmon Jayalath Purayalage Suneetha Rohini Rambadi Devage Rejina Thala Gedara Godayalage Sriyalatha All of

Kosgolla, Hettimulla. Buluruppa. Ihala Gedara Godayalage Dharamathilake No. C122,Walawwatta. Buluruppa. Hettimulla.

Petitioners-Respondents-Respondent

I , i I I " I I I I I I I

I ,

C.A. (PHC) No.16/2012 PHC Kegalle No.3817/Rev.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED AND

DECIDED ON :

A.W.A.SALAM. J.

A. W. A. SALAM, J. &

SUNIL RAJAPAKSHE, J.

Appellant absent and unrepresented.

Neyomal Somathilaka for the 1 st

Respondent.

Neville Abeyratne with Ajith Lal Kumara for

the petitioner-respondent-respondent.

26th July 2013

This appeal has been preferred against the judgment of the

learned High Court judge who having been called upon to

exercise the revisionary jurisdiction over an order made by the

Magistrate's Court dismissed the revision application and

affirmed the order of the Magistrate. The revision application in

the High Court had been filed by the 2nd and 3rd party respondent

petitioner in that court. In these proceedings they are referred to

as the 2nd and 3rd party respondent-petitioner-appellants.

The order that was impugned in the revision application before

the High Court stems from a dispute over a right of way. The

1

proceedings in the Magistrate's court had commenced with the

1st respondent-petitioner-respondent complaining to court in

terms of Section 66(1 )(a) of the Primary Court Procedure Act, by

way of an affidavit of the existence of a dispute relating to land by

reason of which the breach of the peace was threatened or likely.

After the inquiry the learned Magistrate held inter alia that the

right of way complained of has been narrowed by the appellants

by constructing a parapet wall along the right of way shown in

plan 106/A produced as P3.

The existence of the right of way has been admitted by all the

parties. Further, in his statement to the police the appellant has

admitted the construction of the parapet wall and went on to state

that if the width of the road has been narrowed down he would

demolish the same so as to render the width of the right of way

to fall in line with P3. Above all that the police in dealing with

state of the disputed land has clearly referred to the parapet wall

as of a recent construction which obstructs the right of way.

Taking all these matters into consideration the learned

Magistrate has come to the finding that the construction

complained of had deprived the 1 st respondent respondent's

use of the right of way as shown in plan P3 which is also a

violation of the settlement entered in to between the parties

concerned before the Conciliation Board. The certificate of

settlement is produced marked 1 V1.

In the circumstances, the Magistrate had thought it fit to declare

the petitioner-respondent-respondents entitled to use the right of

way in terms of Section 69. Further, as he is empowered by law

he ordered the demolition of the parapet wall which was the

subject of complaint in the Magistrate's Court. Against that order

2nd and 3rd respondent-respondent-petitioner filed a revision

application which was dismissed by the High Court and the 2nd

and 3rd respondent-respondent-appellants have preferred the

present appeal to this Court against the said dismissal.

The learned High Court judge having given her mind to the

circumstances which influenced the learned Magistrate to make

the determination under Section 69 of the Primary Court

Procedure Act has come to the conclusion that the said order of

the Magistrate is flawless and in any event the 2nd and 3rd

respondent-respondent- appellant has not set out exceptional

circumstances to invoke the revisionary jurisdiction of the High

Court. This appeal in fact is not against the order of the

Magistrate but against the judgment of the learned High Court

Judge. We are in agreement with High Court Judge when she

has stated in the impugned judgment that the 2nd and 3rd

respondent-petitioner-appellants to the revision application have

failed to establish exceptional circumstances to invoke the

revisionary jurisdiction of that Court.

3

I I \

As such we do not see any ground to vary the judgment of the

High Court Judge. The reasoning adopted by the learned High

Court judge is quite consistent with law. Therefore we proceed to

dismiss this appeal subject to costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

SUNIL RAJAPAKSHE, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Kwk/=

4