==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA No. 15/2011

Molligoda Liyanaarachchilage

Sarathchandra,

418/05. Lelgahawatta,

Kelaniya.

Accused-Appellant

-Vs-

HC Puttalam Case No. 31/07

BEFORE

COUNSEL

DECIDED ON

The Attorney General

Sisira J. de Abrew, J (P / CAl &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J.

Respondent

W.D. Dharmasiri Karunaratne for

Appellant.

Sarath Jayamanne DSG for the AG.

11.03.2014

SISIRA J. DE ABREW. J (P / CAl

the Accused-

Accused-appellant produced by the Prison Authorities is present in Court.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

1

iII

I

f!

f•

f

i

tI

f!

Accused-appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of his own wife

Catherin and was sentenced to death. Being aggrieved by the said conviction

and the sentence he has appealed to this Court.

Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as follows;

The accused-appellant, his wife and children were chased out of the estate

that they were living few days prior to the incident in this case. Thereafter,

some people in the area helped the family and found a small house in

another estate. When they were living in the said small house some drug

addicts in the area came to the said estate in which the small house was

found. They did this as a habit. The accused-appellant suspected that his

wife was having an affair with the said drug addicts. One day he started

assaulting her with a walking stick. The daughter, Piyona saw the incident.

According to the daughter, her father (accused-appellant) got angry when he

questioned about the alleged affair. It appears that he had been informed by

people in the neighborhood that his wife was carrying on with somebody who

came to this land to consume drugs. Daughter admitted that when the

father assaulted her mother he was angry over the alleged affair between the

mother and some outsider. When we consider the said evidence, we feel that

the accused-appellant should have been convicted of the offence of cUlpable

homicide not amounting to murder on the basis of grave and sudden

provocation, which is an offence punishable under Section 297 of the Penal

Code. We therefore set aside the conviction of murder and the death

sentence and enter conviction of the offence of culpable homicide not

amounting to murder on the basis of grave and sudden provocation which is

an offence punishable under Section 297 of the Penal Code. We sentence

him to a term of 18 years rigorous imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs.

2500/== carrying a default sentence of 03 months simple imprisonment. We

direct the Prison Authorities to implement the sentence from the date of

2

1i

1Iit It

sentencing by the learned trial Judge. Subject to the above variation of

verdict and the sentence the appeal of the appellant is dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

KRLj-

3 r