==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

I j I f I j i I I I ! ! 1 j

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

L.G.Dhanaratne

Vs.

The Attorney-General.

C.A. 102/2012

HC Kandy Case No. 203/2001

BEFORE : Sisira J. de Abrew, J. &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J.

COUNSEL : Chandana Nissanka for the accused-appellant.

Buweneka Aluvihare ASG for the State.

ARGUED ON : 01.08.2013 & 02.08.2013

DECIDED ON: 02.08.2013

Sisira J. de Abrew, J.

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases. The

accused-appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of

1

f

t

J

(I

his own daughter Lukadagedara Champika Kumari

Dhanarathne and was sentenced to death. Being aggrieved by

the said conviction and the sentence he has appealed to this

Court. Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as

follows. The deceased woman Champika Kumari was having a

love affair with a person called Jayantha who is the brother of

the sister-in-law of the accused-appellant. On the day of the

incident sister-in-law of the accused-appellant brought letters

supposed to have been sent by Champika Kumari to

Jayantha. When she came home Champika Kumari had left

home in order to go to her tuition classes. Thereafter the

accused-appellant left home and brought a parcel.

It

f

Subsequent evidence reveals that there was a bottle of poison

inside the parcel. After Champika Kumari came home the

f.<

~I

f,faccused-appellant had dragged her to the rear side of the

,I i

house, poured the substance of the bottle that he brought and

asked Champika Kumari to drink. The two sisters of

ll!I f!Champika Kumari and the mother shouted not to drink. At I

this time Champika Kumari took a sip from the cup and

I

~ I ! 2 I i , ,f

,

J : 1 i j I 1 I

j ! j ; i t 1

1 I I !

I I I I

I

refused to drink the rest. The accused-appellant then kept the

cup to the mouth of Champika Kumari and asked her to

drink. According to the evidence he used pressure on

Champika Kumari to drink and she drank the liquid in the

cup. Thereafter Champika Kumari fell on the ground and one

Kamala who was living in the neighbourhood of the accused-

appellant came to this place and took her to the hospital in a

three-wheeler. According to the evidence the accused-

appellant too went in the three-wheeler. The above incident

was witnessed by the sisters of the deceased woman Keshani

and Nirosha Chandani. According to the post mortem report

the cause of death is ' Paraquat Poisoning'.

The accused-appellant gave evidence under oath. His evidence

may be briefly summarized as follows. On the day of the

incident he came home after attending a funeral in the

neighbourhood and then he found his daughter lying fallen on

the ground. He thereafter took her to the hospital. In his

evidence he was trying to say that Champika Kumari

3

f I I t I I t

j I ! I

committed suicide. Learned Counsel for the accused-appellant

submitted that the evidence of the prosecution witnesses

cannot be relied upon as they have made their statements to

the police 26 days after the incident. Should the evidence of

the witness be rejected on the ground of delay? This question

was considered by His Lordship T.S. Fernando in Queen vs.

Paulin de Croos 71 NLR 169 wherein His Lordship held thus

')ust because the witness is a belated witness the court ought

("1,/ not to reject his testimony on that ,Off score alone and that a

Court must inquire into the reason for the delay and if the

reason for the delay is plausible and justifiable the court could

act on the evidence of the of the belated witness". This

judgment was cited with the approval by His Lordship Justice

Jayasooriya in Sumanasena vs. Attorney General 1999 (3)

SLR page 137. I will now find out from the evidence whether

there was any reason for the delay. Keshani and Nirosha

Chandani were at the time of the incident 14 years and 17

years. They were under the care of their father who is the

accused-appellant in this case. The only breadwinner of the

4

I

1III

! I

1 i

~ 1 I I I

1 I I i I I

family was their father. When I consider all these things I hold

the view that it is not possible for them to make a prompt

complaint against their father. Wife has also not made a

prompt complaint to the police. The accused··appellant was a

mason by profession and was the only breadwinner. Therefore

the reason for not making a prompt statement to the police by

the wife can also be understood. When I consider all these

matters, I hold the view that the evidence of the witnesses

should not be rejected on the ground of delay.

Why did the witnesses make a complaint 26 days after the

incident? After the incident, the accused-appellant had tried

to squeeze the neck of their mother. It appears that this was

the reason for them to make a complaint to the police.

Apparently they would have thought that they have lost their

sister and would also loose their mother under the hands of

f,

f

the father. Therefore, making of the complaint 26 days after

the incident can be understood. Learned Counsel for the t f •!accused-appellant complained that there are discrepancies I

5

J i I 1 l

t I l ! I I I 1

1 i I i

"

between Keshani and Nirosha Chandani. Nirosha Chandani

at one stage stated that their father gave the bottle of poison

to Champika Kumari. But according to Keshani the accused

poured poison to the cup and gave it to Champika Kumari.

Nirosha Chandani although under cross examination stated

the said fact she, in examination chief and cross examination,

has stated that father poured poison into the cup and gave it

to Champika Kumari. When I consider the evidence of both

Keshani and Nirosha Chandani I am of the opinion that there

are no major discrepancies in their evidence.

The accused-appellant, in his evidence, tried to take up the

position that Champika Kumari committed suicide by

drinking poison. I now advert to this position. According to the

accused-appellant he was at a funeral house. He saw the

daughter lying fallen on the ground only after he arrived home

from the funeral house. The fact that he was at a funeral

house in the village was never suggested to two daughters who

gave evidence at the trial. According to the accused-appellant

6

I

J 1 I

1 1 ,

j I

1

· .

his wife was also at the funeral house. But no such suggestion

was made when Keshani and Nirosha Chandani gave

evidence. According to the evidence led by the prosecution, on

the day of the incident (in the morning session) Champika

Kumari and her boy friend Jayantha had gone to Kandy town

and visited Dalada Maligawa. They both had come to the

village In the same bus. According to the evidence they had

taken lunch in the Kandy town. Under these circumstances

what was the reason for Champika Kumari to commit suicide.

From the evidence it appears that there was no reason for

Champika Kumari to commit suicide. In the morning on of the

fateful day she visited Dalada Maligawa with her boy friend.

After lunch they came home together. Was there any

opportunity for her to buy a bottle of poison? The obvious

answer IS no.

There is no evidence to suggest that the bottle of poison was

found in this house prior to the incident.

7

. .

According to the prosecution evidence, the accused had, m

the mornmg, brought some parcel home and later the

witnesses found that the accused had brought a bottle of

poison. When I consider all these matters I am unable to

accept the evidence of the accused-appellant and further I

hold the view that his evidence does not create any reasonable

doubt in the prosecution case. The learned trial judge was

therefore correct when he rejected the accused-appellant's

evidence. When I consider the evidence led at the trial, I hold

the view that the prosecution has proved its cases beyond

reasonable doubt. I therefore affirm the conviction and the

death sentence and dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

8

!!II{