==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OFA THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALICAT REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

C.A.No.318/2006

Before

Counsel appellant

Argued and

Decided on

P.G.Jamis

Accused-Appellant

Vs.

The Attorney- General

Respondent.

H.C.Badulla N 0.249/03

Sisira J. de Abrew,J. (PICA) and

P.W.D.C.Jayathilaka, J.

Sharan Serasinne for the accused-

Yashantha Kodagoda ASG for the A.G.

07.03.2014

tt

1 ) J j 1

2

Sisira J de Abrew,J ( PICA)

Accused - appellant 1S present 1n Court produced by the

Prison Authorities.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted for raping

his own daughter who was under 16 years of age and was

sentenced to a term of 20 years Rigorous Imprisonment, to pay a

fine of Rs.25,000/= carrying a default sentence of 03 years

Simple Imprisonment and to pay a sum of Rs. 75,000/= as

compensation to the victim carrying a default sentence of 05

years Simple Imprisonment (SI). Being aggrieved by the said

conviction and the sentence he has appealed to this Court.

According to the facts of this case the accused -appellan t

who is the father of the victim has committed sexual intercourse

on her without her consent. According to the evidence he has

done it on two occasions. Learned Counsel appearing for the

accused-appellant does not challenge the conviction. She only

makes submissions to reduce the sentence. We have considered

1f I

I I I

1 I

3

the evidence in this case. The father of the victim has raped her.

When we consider all the facts and the submissions of the both

counsel we do not interfere with the sentence imposed by the

trial Judge but we decide to implement the sentence form the

date of sentencing by the learned trial Judge. We note that the

default sentence of three (3) years Simple Imprisonment for non-

payment of the fine of Rs.25,000/= is excessive. We therefore

decide to interfere with the said default sentence. We set aside

the default sentence of 03 years Simple Imprisonment for non-

payment of the fine of Rs.25,000 / - and impose 06 months

Simple Imprisonment for non-payment of the fine of

Rs.25,000 / -. We also note the default sentence for non- payment

of compensation of Rs. 75,000/= is illegal. The maximum

sentence that can be imposed for non-payment of compensation

is only 02 years. We therefore set aside the term of 5 years

Rigorous Imprisonment for non-payment of compensation. We

impose a default sentence of 06 months Simple Imprisonment for

non- payment of the compensation of Rs.75,000/=. We direct

the Prison Authorities to implement the sentence of 20 years

Rigorous Imprisonment from the date of sentencing by the trial

Judge. The default sentences should be implemented in addition

III

I

fj

I 1 j I

1 i i ! I I

I

4

to the term of 20 years Rigorous Imprisonment. Subject to the

above variation of the sentence, the appeal of the appellant is

dismissed. We affirm the conviction.

Appeal dismissed.

PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P. W .D. C.Jayathilaka,J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

WC/-

j I

\,

i!

filII1I I I

I

\

,

\f,