==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI lANKA.

C.A. 875/96F D.C. Mt lavinia 706/S

BEFORE : A W A SALAM, J

B A P Gunasekara,

No 3 Wijayaba Mawatha

Kalubowila

Dehiwala

Plaintiff-Appellant

Vs.

1. Dehiwala Mt: lavinia

Municipal

Dehiwala

Council,

2. S l Kumarasingha,

Mayor, Dehiwala Mt:

lavinia Municipal

Council, Dehiwala

Defendant-Respondents

COUNSEL : Appellant absent and unrepresented.

J P Hapuarachchi for the respondents.

ARGUED ON : 11.07.2011

DECIDED ON : 02.08.2012

A W Abdus Saam, J

This appeal arises on the judgement of the learned district

judge of Mount Lavinia delivered on 28 October 1996. The

1

facts briefly are that the plaintiff-appellant filed action

against the 1 st 2nd and 3rd defendants for a declaration that

he is the tenant of the premises described in the schedule to

the plaint under the 1 st defendant and for damages resulting

from his unlawful eviction from the prern}ses and for the

demolition of the articles belonging to him. The position of

the plaintiff was that he was the lawful tenant of the

premises under the 1 st defendant at all times material to this

action and the officers of the 1 st defendant along with the

other two defendants have unlawfully caused his eviction

from the shop premises and destroyed the articles in the

premIses thereby causing damage. After trial the learned

district judge dismissed the plaintiff's action for want of

proof of tenancy.

On a perusal of the judgement and the reasoning adopted by

the learned district judge, it appears that the learned district

judge has exhaustively dealt with every material question

that had arisen in the course of the trial and come to the

right decision that the plaintiff is not entitled to maintain the

action. Having considered the reasoning adopted by the

learned district judge, I do not see any reason to interfere

with his decision on this matter. In the circumstances the

impugned judgement is affirmed and appeal dismissed

without costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

CR/-

2

\ I} i II

I

I