==== BLOCKS ==== 

• 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for

Mandate in the nature of Writs of

Certiorari, Mandamus and Prohibition

In terms of Article 140 of the

Constitution.

Dingiri Bandara Aldeniya,

61, Pathum Uyana,

Kundasale.

Appellant-Petitioner

C.A. Application 504/2010 (Writ)

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Vs.

1. The Secretary,

Administrative Appeals Tribunal,

5, Dudley Senanayake Mawatha,

Colombo 8

And4 Others

Respondents-Respondents

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

P.W.D.C.JA YATHILAKA, J

L.M.K.Arulanandam PC

for the Petitioner,

M.N.B. Fernando DSG,

for the Respondents

2

Argued on 12.12.2012

Decided on 11.03.2013

S.Sriskandarajah, J,

The Petitioner was an officer of the Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service,

in the year 2000, he had served as the Deputy Director of Education, attached to the

office of the Central Provincial Ministry of Education. While he was serving as Deputy

Director of Education, he has recommended payment of certain vouchers on the basis

that the Department of Education had held in-service training sessions on different

dates in different locations wherein, in fact, no such training sessions had been held.

The Petitioner was charged for the said offence and, after a formal disciplinary inquiry,

the Disciplinary Tribunal exonerated the Petitioner from all the charges. The Public

Service Commission, on receipt of the Disciplinary Tribunal's findings, had

reconsidered the matter, as it is entitled to do, as the Public Services Commission is the

disciplinary authority of the Petitioner, and it found the Petitioner guilty of Counts

Nos.1, 4 and 5 and had exonerated the Petitioner from Counts Nos.2 and 3, and

imposed a punishment on the Petitioner to deduct a sum of Rs.53,625/- from his

pension gratuity and to deduct 20% of the balance gratuity and to deprive the Petitioner

of the wages not paid during the period of interdiction.

The Petitioner appealed against the said Public Service Commission order to the

Administrative Appeals Tribunal. According to the Petitioner, his superior had given

prior approval about holding of the training sessions pertaining to the charges and it is

the Petitioner's position that he examined the supporting documents and found that

they appeared to be in order. He also said that he checked with the relevant officers in

his office before recommending the payment. The Petitioner also relied on the evidence

of a witness, N.R. Ethipola, who has said that she attended the said session at the said

venue on the said date, and she signed the attendance sheet. She had accepted her

3

payment of Rs.100j- and that she received her Certificate for Attendance. According to e her, there were other Teachers who attended the said session. The Petitioner's

contention is that, that the said evidence shows that, in fact, the training sessions were

held and the vouchers he approved were for the said training sessions.

The Administrative Appeals Tribunal observed that the evidence of the Chairman of

the Primary Investigations Committee, Karunaratna, shows that a team of officers who

had conducted the primary investigations had conducted a random check of the

payment of vouchers and had found that out of 11 training sessions, for which claims

have been made, 10 have not been actually conducted. The said training sessions have

been restricted to paper records only and had not been conducted in fact. The

Administrative Appeals Tribunal also observed, the officer who had recommended the

payment vouchers are themselves Deputy Director of Education and persons who have

conducted such training sessions in the past. They ought to have considered the

question as to whether the vouchers are in fact true and they ought to have satisfied

themselves, that such payments are in fact due. The Administrative Appeals Tribunal

also observed that the officers who had made the payments had to take the entire

responsibility in the absence of the said payments being authorized by the Head of their

Department, viz., the Director of Education. In terms of Financial Regulation 136, the

officer who is empowered to commission, supplies work or services, will have to do so

in writing and will be responsible to the accounting officer that, inter alia, the services

are covered by appropriate authority and falls within authorized financial provisions

and properly chargeable to the accounts involved. The Petitioner recommended

Voucher No.M/32 for payment to Teachers for participating in in-training training

sessions held on 27/03/2000 (at Kandy Mahamaya Girls School) for Rs.53,625/- which

was paid to Ananda Munasinghe. By Voucher No.M/174 payment to teachers for

participating in in-training sessions held on 7/04/2000 (at Kandy Mahamaya Girls

School) for Rs.34,375/- paid to Ananda Munasinghe. The Petitioner has also approved

payment on voucher No.M/32 for payment to teachers for participating in in-service

f I

4

training sessions held on 30/02/2000 (at Kandy Wariyapola Sri Sumangala Vidyalaya) e for Rs.33,475/- to be paid to Ananda Munasinghe. It is the finding of the

Administrative Appeals Tribunal that the Petitioner, by recommending the said

payments, had virtually approved the said payments. Therefore, there is a

responsibility on him to have satisfied himself that the provisions of FR 137had been

fulfilled before recommending payment. In these circumstances the Administrative

Appeals Tribunal found that the Appellant cannot escape responsibility by stating that

he was satisfied on paper. In these circumstances the Public Services Commission had

rightly found the Appellant guilty on Counts 1, 4 and 5. The Administrative Appeals

Tribunal, after considering the services rendered by the Petitioner, and the mitigating

circumstances had mitigated the punishment. In these circumstances this Court is of

the view that the decision of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal cannot be quashed

on any ground that could be raised in a writ application and, therefore, this Court

dismisses this application without costs.

_/. ,//?-'"' President of the Court of Appeal

P.W.D.C.Jayathilaka, J

I agree,

---Judge of the Court of Appeal