==== BLOCKS ==== 

In the Court of Appeal of the Democratic Socialist

Republic of Sri Lanka

C.A. No. 1193/96 (F)

D.C. Gampaha Case No: 35335/L

Lee1aratne Dassanayake,

No. 92, Negombo Road,

Kurunegala.

Plaintiff

-Vs-

1. Nicholas Fernando

Marcus

Archbishop of Colombo

Archbishop house,

Colombo 8.

2. Father Merle Mendis

Mission Service,

Archbishop house,

Colombo 8.

Defendants

And

1. Nicholas Fernando

Marcus

Archbishop of Colombo

Archbishop house,

Colombo 8.

2. Father Merle Mendis

Mission Service,

1

Before

Counsel

Decided on

Archbishop house,

Colombo 8.

Defendants-Appellants

-Vs-

Leelaratne Dassanayake,

No. 92, Negombo Road,

Kurunegala.

Plaintiff-Respondent

A.W.A. Salam, J.

Padma Bandara with Shamil Rajapakse for the

Defendant-Appellant.

28.07.2011

A. W. Abdus Salam, J.

The plaintiff filed action against the defendants for a

declaration of title and damages. The learned district judge

dismissed the plaintiffs action for want of proof of title.

Simultaneously he dismissed the counter claim of the

defendants based on the footing that the 1st defendant has

failed to show any connection as between PI and subsequent

deeds.

2

On a perusal of the evidence led at the trial it is to be seen

that the Archbishop of Colombo has had a clear chain of title

to the subject matter for more than one hundred years. Quite

surprisingly, the learned district judge in his judgment has

observed that the 1st defendant has failed to prove as to how

the title of Christian Appuhamy had devolved on him. As a

matter of fact defendants admitted at the trial that the

document marked as PI has no connection to the subject

matter. Even if PI is rejected the title of the 1st defendant

commences from 27 March 1888 with deed bearing No 1484

referred to in P6.

On a clear chain of title commencing from 27 March 1888 the

1 st defendant has established that he is the owner of the

subject matter and the learned district judge has clearly erred

himself when he rejected the claim of the defendant that he is

entitled to a declaration of title to the said property.

When one examines the title of the 1st defendant there is no

difficulty in concluding on a balance of probability that the

ownership of the subject matter has been established by the

1st defendant and that he is entitled to a declaration as

sought in his answer. As such, I am of the view that the

judgment of the learned district judge rejecting the claim in

reconvention of the 1st defendant needs to be corrected.

For reasons stated above I set aside the judgment of the

learned district judge rejecting the claim in reconvention of

3

, . the 1 st defendant for a declaration of title to the land and

substitute the same with the declaration that the 1st

defendant is the owner of the subject matter. The learned

district judge is directed to amend the decree accordingly.

Appeal allowed subject to the above declaration. There shall

be no costs or damages payable by the plaintiff.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

NT/

4