==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 627 1 99 F D.C. Avissawella No. 200131 M

Rohan W. Welangalle, No. 19, Halkotayawatta Lane,

Welangalle.

Plaintiff

Vs.

1. Okandapola Arachchillage Wasantha Kumara, Aluth Ambalama, Kosgama. 2. Hasantha Priyadarshana Ranasinghe, "Madavi Technicians" Ukwatta, A vissawella. 3. R. D. A. M. Priyadarshana, No. 236, Galle Road, Colombo 3.

Defendants

And Now Between

Hasantha Priyadarshana Ranasinghe, "Madavi Technicians" Ukwatta, A vissawella.

2nd Defendant Appellant

Vs

Rohan W. Welangalle, No. 19, Halkotayawatta Lane,

Welangalle.

Plaintiff Respondent

II! I

!I ! I

t I

\,IIII

! i iI

~

\

r

\

I

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

2

Okandapola Arachchillage Wasantha Kumara, Aluth Ambalama, Kosgama.

1 st Defendant Respondent

R. D. A. M. Priyadarshana, No. 236, Galle Road, Colombo 3.

3 rd Defendant Respondent

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

Pradeep Kumarasinghe for the 2nd

Defendant Appellant.

S.A.D.S. Suraweera for the Plaintiff

Respondent

29.10.2013

25.11.2013

The present appeal has been preferred by the 2nd Defendant Appellant

(hereinafter referred to as the Appellant) from the order made by the learned

District Judge of A vissawella dated 01.04.1999. The facts of the case are briefly as

follows;

II I \ ! ! I ! II ! ,

f i!

III

I

t

\

I

i II[ I

[ I 3

The Plaintiff Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the Respondent)

instituted an action against the Appellant in the District Court of A vissawella

claiming a sum of Rs.l 00,0001 from the Appellant as damages caused to him at a

motor traffic accident. After the institution of the action summons had been issued

on the Appellant. The Appellant had appeared before Court, had filed a proxy and

obtained a date to file an answer. On the date of filing the answer the Appellant

was absent and unrepresented and since there had been no application on behalf of

the Appellant the case had been fixed for an ex-parte trial. It seems from the

proceedings of the said date namely 04.07.1997 that even the attorney on record of

the Appellant was absent from court.

Thereafter an ex-parte trial has been held and an ex-parte decree has

been entered accordingly. A copy of the said ex-parte decree has been served on

the Appellant. Upon the receipt of the said the ex-parte decree the Appellant has

preferred an application under section 86(1) of the Civil Procedure Code (CPC)

seeking to have the said ex-parte judgement and the decree vacated. The learned

District Judge after inquiry has dismissed the Appellant's said application.

The learned counsel for the Appellant submitted that the Appellant

has led sufficient evidence to prove that his absence was beyond his control and

the learned District Judge has failed to consider the said evidence.

It was common ground that the Appellant was absent and

unrepresented on the day fixed for the filling of the answer. It is also seen from the

minuets of the relevant date i.e. 04.07.1997 that the answer had not been tendered

to court on that day and also the Attorney on record of the Appellant was absent

and since there had been no application the case had been fixed for an Ex-Parte

It

! ! !

\ I, i I f I I

~ f

\

I ,II I

\

I,i l If ,

4

trial. It can be assumed from the said minuets that if there had been an application

moving court to grant further time to file answer that application would have been

considered by court. In this regard it seems that the Appellant has led medical

evidence to justify his absence. In addition the Appellant in his evidence has stated

that the answer was not filed on that day for the reason that his Lawyer had

forgotten the date.

The Appellant has led the evidence of Gamaralalage Gunaratne,

Attorney At Law, who was the registered Attorney on behalf of the Appellant. In

his evidence he has stated that he was aware of the day the answer to be filed but

since he had taken down a wrong date in his diary he could not tender the answer

on that day. It was apparent from the said evidence of the Appellant that he had

relied upon the negligence of his Attorney At Law.

Under the present context of law can the Appellant plead the

negligence of his Attorney At Law as reasonable grounds for the default of the

filling of the answer?

In terms of Section 84 of the Civil Procedure Code if a defendant fails

to file his answer on or before the day fixed for the filling of the answer, or on or

before the day fixed for the subsequent filling of the answer then the court shall

proceed to hear the case ex -parte forthwith or on such other day as the court may

fix. It seems that Section 84 does not require proof of intentional default as a

condition precedent to an ex-parte trial. The failure to file answer on or before the

day fixed for the filing of the answer or to apply for an extension of time to file

answer is per se a default within the meaning of Section 84 of the Code. (See:

ABN Amro Bank NY vs. Conmix (Pvt) Ltd [1996] 1 SLR 8)

)

( I [

~

! I

I

f I I I

• f f f

I! I

I

t I

, l

5

It is crystal clear from Section 84 that a Defendant needs not to wait

until the day due for the filling of the answer. The answer can be filled on or before

the day fixed for the filling of the answer. In such a situation ill health of the

Defendant or negligence of the Defendant's Attorney At Law is not reasonable

grounds for such default.

In the case of Karunawathie Ekanayake vs. Gunasekera [1986] 2

CALR 250 it was held that" A distinction could not be drawn between the various

reasons for which a party may default. It made no difference that the Appellant's

failure to file answer was occasioned by her ill health or negligence of her

Attorney At Law. The wording of Section 86(2) of the Civil Procedure Code and

Section 418(2) of the Administration of Justice Law remaining the same, the

legislature could not have intended a different interpretation to that which had been

judicially expounded in relation to Section 86(2) of the Civil Procedure Code".

In the said circumstances I see no reason to interfere with the order of

the learned District Judge dated 01.04.1999. Therefore I dismiss the appeal of the

Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

, [

\ J , \ i

\ ,

II

II

i