==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA Appeal No: 426/99(F)

DC Matale Case No: 4942/L

Plaintiff-Respondent.

BEFORE : A.W.A. Salam, J.

R. Shiromani Sellappan,

44/2, Mattawa Road,

W arakamura, Ukuwela.

Defendant-Appellant.

vs.

W.A.K. Sena

39, Nagolla Road, Matale.

COUNSEL : Sarath Jayawardane for the Defendant-

Appellant and Thushari K. Hirimuthugodage for the

Plaintiff-Respondent.

ARGUED ON: 19.09.2012

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON : 16.01.2013

DECIDED ON: 27.02.2013

A W A Salam, J.

The impugned judgment relevant to this appeal pertains to

an action filed by the plaintiff-respondent, against the

defendant-appellant seeking inter alia a declaration of title

to the subject matter of the action and ejectment. The said

action is based on a deed of transfer executed in favour of

the plaintiff-respondent by the Land Reform Commission.

The Land Reform Commission in turn is said to have

become the owner of the subject matter of the action by

operation of Law, when the land vested in the said

Commission by operation of the Land Reform Commission Law.

The defendant-appellant in her answer took up the position

that her father and his predecessors were labourers

attached to an estate called W arakanda Estate and from

the year 1918 they were resident on a portion of the said

. estate from and out of which a block of land in extent of 45

perches was given to the defendant-appellant. The

defendant-appellant claimed that in the year 1980 she

constructed a house on that portion of the land and

resided in it since then. Consequently, she claimed that

she acquired a prescriptive title to the said land more fully set out in the answer.

The defendant-appellant, prayed for a declaration of title to

the subject matter of the action on the strength of her

+-' c: Q) E t:IO "0

:::l .....

2

prescriptive possession or in the alternative compensation

for improvement. The learned district judge, after trial held

inter alia that the plaintiff-respondent has established his

title to the subject matter of the action and the defendant-

appellant's claim should fail as she had not established the

acquisition of prescriptive rights. Being aggrieved by the

said findings, judgment and decree the defendant-

appellant has preferred this appeal.

At the commencement of the trial the only admission

recorded was the jurisdiction of court to hear and conclude

the action. The following were the issues framed at the

instance of the plaintiff-respondent.

1. Was the Land Reform Commission the original owner of the

land and premises more fully set out in the schedule to the plaint?

2. Did the Land Reform Commission on 1.2.1995 sell the

same to the plaintiff?

3. Did the defendant obstruct the handing over possession of

the said land to the plaintiff by the Land Reform

· Commission on 11.4.1994?

4. As a result of the said act of the defendant has the plaintiff

suffered loss at the rate of Rs.500/-per month?

5. If the above issues are answered in the affirmative, is the

plaintiff entitled to judgment as prayed for in the plaint?

At the instance of the defendant following were the issues raised.

.... c: 'QJ

E tl.O "0

::I ...,

3

6. Has the defendant having constructed a house in the year

1977 remained in possession of the subject matter of the

action?

7. Has the defendant improved the subject matter of the

action?

8. If the above issues are answered in the affirmative what is

the quantum of compensation the plaintiff is entitled to?

The documents marked at the trial by the plaintiff-

appellant are as follows.

1. The certificate of non-settlement of the dispute.

2. The deed of transfer No 5290 dated 1.2.1995 executed by

the Land Reform Commission in favour of the plaintiff.

3. Proceedings of the Magistrate's Court in case No 24959

initiated for and on behalf of the State to eject the

defendant-appellant from the subject matter of the action

in terms of the Recovery of State Land Act.

sinr.P. thP. nrP.sP.nt :=~r.tion is to vinnir.::~tP. thP. titlP. of thP.

nl::~intiff-rP.snonnP.nt ::~nn to oht::~in nossP.ssion of thP. l::~nn. it

is thP. nntv of thP. nl::~intiff-rP.snonnP.nt to P.st::~hlish thP.

inP.ntitv of thP. r.ornns to.P"P.thP.r with thP. titlP.. HP. snhmittP.n

th::~t nnon thP. f::~ilnrP. of thP. nl::~intiff-rP.snonnP.nt to

:=~r.tion must f::~il. HP. ::~lso rP.liP.s on thP. nrinr.inlP. th::~t thP.

WP..AknP.SS of thP. nP.fP.nn::~nt's VP.rsion will not strP.n.P'thP.n thP.

m ..... 0 t"'! N 0 " N .... c: '<11

E tlO "'C

::I .....

u nlAintiff'~ t"A~P Nn rln11ht thP 1PArnPr1 rn11n~Pl hA~ C

~11hmittPrl thP lAw as it is, as to the requirements of a rl:d

vindicatio action.

4

! I I II

It is to be noted that the only document produced by the

plaintiff in support of his title was the deed of transfer; he

has obtained from the Land Reform Commission. Even

though the plaintiff-respondent maintained that the Land

Reform Commission was the owner of the property in

question by operation of the Land Reform Law, no gazette

notification or any other· documents relating to the vesting

has been produced at the trial. The learned counsel for the

defendant-appellant adverted me to the possible

consequences resulting from the failure to produce such

documents in support of the claim that the Land Reform

Commission was the owner of the subject matter,

immediately pnor to the plaintiff obtaining a deed of

transfer in his favour. The failure to adduce evidence as to

the ownership of the Land Reform Commission is a serious

omission made by the plaintiff-respondent and the learned

district judge could not have declared the plaintiff-

respondent as the owner of the subject matter in the

. absence of any positive proof that The Land Reform

Commission was the owner of the property in question at

all times material to the action.

The burden of proof in a rei vindicatio action is on the party

who asserts ownership and where, in an action for

declaration of title to land, the defendant is in possession

of the land; the burden is on the plaintiff to prove that he

has dominium. The learned district judge in his judgement

seems to have relied heavily on the claim made by the

defendant that he also got the land in question from the

Land Reform Commission.

......

E ..!!!

"' Vl < 3: <

..... c: •QJ E tiO "C

::::::1 ......

5

As has been rightly observed by the learned district judge

the defendant-appellant had not produced any

documentary proof as to the ownership of Land Reform

Commission. The learned district judge had observed that

the defendant-appellant had not seriously controverted the

averment of ownership attributed to the Land Reform

Commission or denied that the Land Reform Commission

at one point of time was the owner of the land in question.

In other words the learned district judge has relied heavily

on the failure of the defendant to deny the title of the Land

Reform Commission. In this context, he has failed to

appreciate the total absence of any admissions

categorically made by the defendant-appellant as to the

ownership attributed to the Land Reform Commission. As a

matter of fact the failure on the part of the defendant-

appellant to produce any receipts to demonstrate that he

had permission from the Land Reform Commission to

occupy the land in question was considered by the learned

. district judge against the claim in reconvention preferred

by the defendant-appellant.

In the case of Peiris V s Sarunhamy 54 NLR 207 it was laid

down that the initial burden of proof in a rei vindicatio

action is on the plaintiff to prove his title and the

identification of the corpus.

It seems that in a case where the learned Judge ab initio

has made a cardinal error by placing the onus on the

wrong party or having misapplied the law to the prejudice

of one party, it would not be just or right for a Court

exercising appellate jurisdiction to try and ascertain

.., e ~

"' V'l <( 3: <(

1"1') ...... 0 N r-i 0 ,...; N

6

whether, had the trial Judge placed the onus on the proper

party, the result would be different.

Had the learned district judge appreciated the principle

that it is the duty of the plaintiff in a rei vindicatio action to

establish the title on which she relies on a balance of

probability and that the unsatisfactory nature of the

defence is no justification to grant the plaintiff the relief

asked for, he would not have entered judgement in favour

of the plaintiff-respondent.

In the case of W anigaratna V s Juwanis Appuhamy 65 NLR

165 it was held that in an action rei vindicatio the plaintiff

must prove and establish his title. He cannot ask for a

declaration of title in his favour merely on the strength that

the defendant's title- is poor or not established.

The position is totally different in a case where a landlord

sues his tenant who may later have turned out to be a

trespasser for a declaration of title or the owner of a land

who sues the licensee for. the similar declaration after the

. termination of the licence. They cannot be strictly

categorised as rei vindicatio actions. In such cases strict

proof of ownership as contemplated in a rei vindicatio ..... c action may not be necessary. But in this case, it is· ·~

"C incumbent upon the plaintiff respondent to have ~ _, established with cogent evidence that the Land Reform ~

Commission was the owner of the subject matter of the

action, for him to claim a declaration of title in his favour.

According to the evidence of the officer from the Land

Reform Commission itself, the identity of the corpus was in

doubt and whether the Land Reform Commission was the

C"' ~

~

I'll .....

I'll ~ u 0

owner of the particular allotment of land was uncertain. In

the circumstances, I am of the opinion that the learned

district judge has failed to address his mind to the basic

ingredients of a rei vindicatio action. As such, a serious

miscarriage of Justice had occurred in declaring the

plaintiff-respondent the owner of the subject matter of the

action in the absence of any positive proof of chain of title.

For this reason, justice demands that the impugned

judgement is set aside.

Consequently, I set aside the judgement and decree and

direct the learned district judge to enter judgement

dismissing the plaintiffs action for want of proof of title.

There shall be no costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

NR/-

....

+J s:: 'QJ

E !lO "0

:::J ....

8