==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

High Court (Gampahal

Case No: 26/02

C.A. Case No: 300/12

In the matter of a petition of appeal in

terms of section 331 (1) of the Code of

Criminal Procedure Act No 15 of 1979

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

Lanka.

Hon. Attorney General,

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

Complainant

1. Nishshanka Arachchige Neil Priyantha

121, Warapalana, Uduthuththiripitiya.

2. Nishshanka Arachchige Abraham

Singho

121, Warapalana, Uduthuththiripitiya.

AND

1. Nishshanka Arachchige Neil Priyantha

121, Warapalana, Uduthuththiripitiya.

1st Accused Appellant

1

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General,

I ,

Attorney General's Department,

! i I,Colombo 12. I!Complainant Respondent I,IiBEFORE H.N.J. PERERA, J fI

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J i,, I It

~ COUNSEL Weerasena Ranahewa with Sureka IIWijendra for the Accused

~ ,,

Appellant. (if kDileepa Pieris sse for the I!i,

Respondent. J

~ !It

~! ARGUED ON 03.10.2014 tl ! ,

'"t

~

~-

DECIDEDQN 22.01.2015 I, Ir

2

PoWoDoCo Jayathilake, J

Kalyani was a widow, but she was living together with Nihal Sarath

Kumara.Even though they lived in Sarath Kumara's parental house, his father,

mother, brother and sisters all who lived in that house were against the said

relationship. This couple was occupying the verandaroom of the house. They

had lived like this for six months by 06.04.1997. Kalyani had problems right

through out with Sarath Kumara's family members. When Sarath Kumara

returned home after work on the said day, he was told by both his mother and

Kalyani that there was a quarrel between them over a missing blouse. As there

was no settlement, Sarath Kumara and Kalyani got ready to complain to the

police and also informed the younger brother about this. After hearing that

they were getting ready to complain to the police, the younger brother hacked

Sarath Kumara with a knife while the father assaulted with a club. Sarath

Kumara had fallen in the compound. Then he had heard Kalyani screaming.

When Sarath Kumara was in hospital, he had come to know that Kalyani had

died as a result of being assaulted. He had not participated in her funeral.

Nishshanka Arachchige Neil Priyantha and Nishshanka Arachchige Abraham

Singho were indicted under Sec. 317 of the Penal Code read with Sec. 32 for

committing grievous hurt on Nihal Sarath Kumara. The 1st Accused was

3

indicted in the same indictment under Sec.296 of the Penal Code for

committing the murder of Kusuma Kalyani.

While the trial was underway, the 2nd Accused had died and after trial the 1st

Accused had been convicted for the 1st and 2nd count, he was convicted after

amending the Sec. 296 as 297. He has been sentenced for 5 years'

imprisonment with a fine of Rs: 10,000/= for the 1st count and 5 years

imprisonment with a fine of Rs: 7500/= for the 2nd count. A default sentence of

7 months' rigorous imprisonment has been ordered in default of the payment

of fine. Finally it has been ordered that all these sentences be served

concurrently. Being dissatisfied with the said conviction and the sentence the

Accused Appellant has preferred this appeal.

If this Court makes a comment on the sentence passed by the trial judge, it has

to be noted that when imposing the jail term, the trial judge has simply

mentioned the term, Ifimprisonment", whereas when passing the default

sentence, the term used is Ifrigorous imprisonment". Usually, we find the other

way about, that is, rigorous imprisonment for the jail term and Ifsimple

imprisonment" for the default sentence. The other point is that the trial judge

has directed that all sentences to be served concurrently, not only two jail

terms, but also the default sentence which is not usually done. Accordingly,

4

I

!

II

f \I. 1Ii I

~ i

!IIt

fI!

~ !f,

!I

1fIi

there is no effect in imposing fines and passing default sentences over those

fines.

Still another shortcoming is that court has not passed default sentences for

two fines separately. As a result, where the offender pays one of the two fines,

there is no certainty about how it affects the default sentence. Therefore,

when court imposes two or more fines for separate charges a default sentence

should be passed for each and every fine separately. Where there is only one

default sentence for more than one fine the abolishment of default sentence

takes place by the payment of any of the fines. The principle behind this

situation is that the subject should not be suffered for the mistake made by

court.

The learned counsel for the Accused Appellant addressed the court over the

misdirection of the trial judge on the evidence led at the trial. The only

eyewitness is Sarath Kumara who had suffered grievous injuries in the incident.

He has stated that both accused, namely the brother and the father caused

injuries to him with a knife and a club. The evidence available regarding the

attack on Kalyani is only her screaming heard by Sarath Kumara. According to

the medical evidence the fatal injuries to Kalyani have been caused with a club.

It has been revealed that the club was in the hands of the 2

nd Accused. It is not

clear that why only the 1st Accused has been accused of murdering Kalyani that

5

•

is the 2

nd count when the 1st charge has been brought against both accused for

causing grievous hurt to Sarath Kumara acting in common intention. Even

though the learned trial judge has discussed the motive for killing Kalyani she

has not pointed out how the court attributes the culpability of murdering

Kalyani to the 1st Accused.

The learned Senior State Counsel who appeared for the Attorney General

submitted that there is no defence at all taken up by the Accused Appellant at

the trial. He made court focus its attention on the dock statement of the

Accused Appellant where he has stated that he did not assault Kalyani nor did

he kill her, and making further statements admitting the fact that he hacked

his brother.

As per the above facts, this court is of the view that the learned trial judge has

convicted the Accused Appellant for the 2nd count without studying the

evidence properly. Therefore, it is the opinion of this court that the conviction

for the 2

nd count cannot stand. We, therefore, set aside the conviction of the

Accused Appellant for the 2nd count and acquit him for the same. But we see

no reason to interfere with findings of the learned trial judge for the conviction

of the Accused Appellant for the 1st count. Even though this court is not

satisfied with the sentence passed by the learned trial judge, we do not intend

to intervene for enhancement. Therefore, the sentence passed by the trial

6

•

judge is formalised as follows. The Accused Appellant is sentenced to 5 years'

rigorous imprisonment with a fine of Rs: 10000/= carrying a default sentence

of 7 months simple imprisonment.

Appeal allowed for the 2

nd count of the indictment and appeal dismissed in

regard to the 1st count. And the sentence is formalised as mentioned above.

The High Court Judge of Gampaha is directed to issue a fresh committal

according to the above formalised sentence.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

H.N.J. PERERA J

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

7