==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

1

In the matter of an application for Revision in tenns of Article 138 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

CA (PHC)APN 111/2014 People's Leasing and Finance Company PLC He Ampara Case No-AMPIHCIREV/416/14 (formerly known as "People's Leasing Company M.C. Dehiattakandiya Case No.5884 Limited") No.67, Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 02. Presently :- No. 1161, Maradana Road, Colombo 08.

2nd Claimant-Petitioner-Petitioner

Vs.

1. The Additional Forest Officer, Office of the Forest Department

Mahaoya.

Complainant-Respondent-Respondent

2. Mayadunna Appuhamilage Anuruddha Priyadarshana No. 302, Near Central College, Padiyathalawa. 3. Sammuganathan Dinesh Kumara No. 105, Upper Street, Padiyathalawa. 4. Ediriweera Jayawickrama Patabendige Dilan Kosala No. 92/J, Padiydora Road, Padiyathalawa.

Accused-Respondent-Respondent

Before H.C.J. Madawala , J

&

L.T.B. Dehideniya, J

5. Rupasinghe Arachchige Chandrika No. 212111B, Koskandawala,

Yakkala.

1 st Claimant- Respondent-Respondent

6. Hon. Attorney General Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

Counsel Saman Galappatti for the Petitioner

Varunika Hettige DSG for the Respondent

Written Submissions On : 23 108 12016

Decided on : 09 101/2017

H. C. J. Madawala, J

2

This is a Revision application by 2nd claimed-Petitioner-Petitioner to set aside the

order of Learned High Court Judge of Ampara dated 28/4/2014 made III

AMPIHCIRev/416/14 and to set aside the order of Learned Magistrate of

Dehiattakandiya dated 28/1/2014 in Magistrate's Court case No. 58/84. In the

alternative to send back the case to the High Court of Ampara directing the Learned

High Court Judge to issue notice on the Respondent and to hear the case on merits.

Further to direct the Learned Magistrate of Dehiattakandiya to release the vehicle

bearing No. WPLH 4867 to the Petitioner and to grant cost.

3

The Petitioner's verSIOn was that on or about 26/7/2013 the Complainant-

Respondent-Respondent has taken in to custody the vehicle bearing No. WPLH 4867

together with 1st, 2nd and 3rd Accused-Respondent-Respondents for transporting

timber without a permit obtained in terms of the provision of Forest Ordinance.

The pt, 2nd and 3rd Accused-Respondent-Respondents were produced before the

Magistrate's Court of Dehiattakandiya under case No. 58/84 and the pt Accused-

Respondent-Respondent was charged for transporting timber in the night in violation

of the provisions in Sec 40(1), 40(a), 52 read with Section 25 sub Section (2) of the

Forest Ordinance and the 2nd and 3rd Accused-Respondent-Respondents were

charged for aiding abating the offence committed in terms of Section 25(3) of the

Forest Ordinance. The 1st, 2nd and 3rd Accused-Respondent-Respondents pleaded

guilty for all counts and the Learned Magistrate convicted them for the said counts

on 26/7/2013 and pronounced the sentence. Accordingly the Petitioner and the pt

Claimed-Respondent-Respondent moved to show cause as to why the vehicle should

not be confiscated at the inquiry. The 1 st Claimed-Respondent-Respondent who is

the registered owner of the vehicle gave evidence. She stated that the subject matter

of this case the vehicle bearing No. WPLH 4867 was given to the 1 st Claimed-

Respondent-Respondent under finance lease agreement No. GPKILEIOOOOl2800

dated 24/6/2010. The vehicle had been used to transport metal from her husband's

quarry and in the night it was used to park at the residence of one of the sister and a

driver used to take the key of the vehicle with him. One of the sons of that sister

having broken the glass of the lorry had entered and used another key together with

two others for the purpose of transporting timber in the night. This incident has taken

place after 3 years from the date, she obtained the possession of the vehicle and that

there were no previous involvement of any kind of an illegal activity.

4

It was contended that the evidence given by the 1 st Claimed-Respondent-Respondent

in relation to forcible entry to the vehicle by one of her sister's son, that there were

no previous conviction and have not been challenged or contradicted at the cross

examination. She also stated that an officer from the Petitioner's company namely

Ramila Vidya Hewavitharana has given evidence and has stated that the relevant

vehicle was leased to 1 st Claimed-Respondent-Respondent under finance leasing

agreement on 24/6/2010 and had made several visits to inspect the vehicle and the

investigation reports was marked "Xl" to "X8". She further stated that the lease

agreement was terminated on 22/6/2012 and termination letter has been marked as

"X 10". The Petitioner closed its case with the evidence of the aforesaid witness

having marked document "Xl" to "XI2".

The Learned Magistrate by his order dated 28/1114 confiscated the vehicle having

rejected the evidence led by both registered owner and the Petitioner. Being

aggrieved by the said order of the Learned Magistrate of the Petitioner invoked the

revisionary jurisdiction of High Court of Ampara in the case bearing No.

AMPIHClRev/416114. The Learned High Court Judge of Ampara refused the

revision application of the Petitioner without issuing notices to the Respondent on

28/4/2014.

When this matter came up for support on 26/9/2014 the petition been supported by

the counsel for the Petitioner for an interim order, court made an order directing the

Learned Magistrate of Dehiattakandiya to keep the vehicle under the custody of

court without taking steps to auction the same until this revision application is finally

decided.

On 11/7/2016 when this matter came up for argument both parties agreeing to

dispose this case by way of written submissions, court fixed the date for judgment.

5

The Learned Counsels for the Petitioner and Respondent has filed their respective

written submissions on 29/8/2016 and 9/8/2016. On 2/9/2016 judgment was

postponed for several dates and finally fixed for 9/01/2016.

On a perusal of the written submissions of both parties we find that the 2nd Claimed-

Petitioner-Petitioner has taken up a preliminary objection. V12 with regard to the

maintainability of this revision application. The main objection that was taken up is

that Superior Court declined to entertain revision application when exceptional

circumstances has not been averred in the revision application. On a perusal of the

revision application tendered to court we find that exceptional circumstances has

been pleaded in the application.

The Learned Counsel for the 2nd Claimed-Petitioner-Petitioner has pleaded

exceptional circumstances in para 14 of this petition.

a. The said order is contrary law,

b. The said order is against the principle of natural justice,

c. The Learned High Court Judge has misdirected himself in interpreting the

principle laid down in "Orient Financial Service Corporation Limited V s.

Forest Officer SC Appeal 120/2011" where it was held that" even though

the absolute owner has the ownership to the vehicle the proper person who

should show cause at the inquiry under section 40 of the Forest Ordinance

is the registered owner since the possession and the control of the vehicle

at the time of commitment of the offence was with the registered owner".

d. The Learned High Court Judge failed to given an appropriate consideration

to the fact that the registered owner's evidence to the effect that she was

not privy to the offence and that she has exercised due diligence in

I , , ! I iI II !

~ ri i IIIft,

~

ttlI

1

tr

if

I

I

6

deploying the vehicle by her driver for transporting metal from her

husband's quarry and that the Petitioner has established that it has taken

all precautions possible to prevent commission of any offence.

e. The Learned High Court Judge failed to give an appropriate consideration

to the fact that at the time of the commission of the offence the lease

agreement has been terminated and therefore the absolute owner is entitled

to the possession of the said vehicle.

f. The Learned High Court Judge failed to give an appropriate consideration

that the Petitioner has the right to claim the vehicle in terms of Law as well

as decided cases.

In the petition dated 1112/2014 by 2nd Claimant Petitioner we find exceptional

circumstances has been pleaded in para 10 of the petition.

We are of the view that the Learned High Court Judge should have issue notice to

the parties and proceeded to hear the application. As such we are of the view that we

should not go to the merit of this application. We set aside the judgment dated

2814/2014 delivered in the High Court of Ampara in case No. AMDlRev/416/14 and

direct the High Court Judge to issue notice on the Respondent and to hear the

revision application filed by the Petitioner.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

L.T.D.Dehideniya, J

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

IIt

r

f

\

fII