==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA 112/99 F

DC COLOMBO 11571/MR

BEFORE: A.W.ABDUS SALAM, J

1. PATHMA UDAYARATNA

2. W.V.IRESHA

LEELANGANIUDAYARATNA

3. W.V.MANGALA

NANDADEVA UDAYARATNA ALL

OF KAPPAGODA, MAWANALLE

SUBSTITUTED-DEFENDANT-

APPELLANTS

VS

G.D.PIYASENA SENEVIRATNA,

POLAMBEYGODA,

USSAPITIYA

PLAINTIFF-RESPONDENT -

RESPONDENT

COUNSEL: Nihal Jayamanna PC with Dilhan De Silva for the 1 st and

2nd substituted defendant-appellants and Dr Sunil Cooray with

Sumudu Saparamadu for the 3rd substituted defendant-appellant.

S.Mandaleswaran with P.Peramunagama and P.H.G.Gunawardena for

the plaintiff-respondent-respondent.

ARGUED ON: 5.10.2010,22.11.2010,17.12.2010,1.2.2011,23.6.2011

and 27.10.2011.

W/S FILED ON: 29.11.2011 and 19.01.2012

DECIDED ON: 24 April 2012

I

t f ,

A. W .Abdus Salam, J. Iris appeal relates to an order refusing to set aside a Wudgment and decree entered consequent upon the

default of appearance of the Defendant (presently deceased)

on the summons returnable day. The appeal has been

preferred by the 18t, 2nd and 3rd substituted defendant-

petitioner-appellants whom I propose to collectively refer to

in the rest of the judgment as "appellants".

The factual background to the appeal, leaving out

unnecessary details centers round the defendant's failure to

appear in court or file the answer on the summons

returnable day. Being satisfied that he was duly served with

summons, the learned district judge proceeded to hear the

case exparle against him and entered judgment followed by

a decree and then caused a copy of the decree to be served

on the defendant. As no attempts were made to satisfy court

that he had reasonable grounds for the default, within the

timeframe permitted by law, the plaintiff moved for writ of

execution.

At that stage, the defendant made an application to have the

proceedings, judgment and decree set aside on the ground

of patent want of jurisdiction, arising on the failure to serve

summons. Pending the determination of the application the

defendant passed away and the appellants were appointed

as substituted-defendants to represent the estate of the

deceased defendant. The application of the defendant was

refused by order dated 15.10.1998. This appeal has been

filed thereafter by the appellants challenging it's propriety.

2

!t

At the inquiry, the process server of the district court of

Mount Lavinia, Y.S.Chandrapala gave evidence upon being

summoned at the instance of the plaintiff and on behalf of

the appellants, the son of the deceased defendant who is the

3rd substituted defendant gave evidence. In addition the

appellants led the evidence of the following witnesses ...

1. M.H.W.Banda -a clerk attached to Hadabima

Authority, Peradeniya.

2. P. Lakshmi Wijeratna - An Accountant attached to

Hadabima Authority, Peradeniya.

3. J.Samaraweera - Chief Officer of Parliament

4. A.S.P.Chandralatha Edirisingha - A Clerk attached to

the district court of Kagalle.

The case presented on behalf of the defendant was that the

purported report of the process server is false and has been

so done at the instance of the plaintiff with a fraudulent

intention. Conversely, the plaintiff maintained that

summons had in fact been served on the defendant as

claimed by the process server and even the decree was

caused to be served on him personally by the same process

server at a different address.

By reason of this controversy the learned district judge was

expected to evaluate the evidence and arrive at the finding

on the pivotal issue relating to the service of summons, on a

balance of probability. The evidence of the 3rd substituted-

defendant-appellant was that his birthday falls on 12th

3

I\ III!I,

,

\I

II

\

December. In the year 1991, on his birth day his father (the

deceased defendant) left home around 5.30 AM and

returned between 7.30 PM and 8.00 PM. He claimed that he

could distinctly remember the important incidents that took

place on that day, as it happened to be his birthday. The

presence of the defendant in Colombo at 2 PM on that day

has been established through the evidence of the officer

attached to Parliament, as the defendant had attended a

meeting at that time. The running chart maintained in

respect of the motor vehicle used by the defendant has been

produced marked A2. According to A2 the defendant has left

home at 6.00 AM and returned in the evening.

If the evidence of the 3rd substituted-defendant-appellant

and that of J Samaraweera is accepted along with document

marked A2, then the evidence of the process server that he

served summons personally on the defendant at 10.00 AM

at Kappagoda in Mawanella is open to serious doubt. It is

unfortunate that the process server has not obtained the

signature of the defendant in acknowledgement of the

receipt of the summons, at least for abundance of caution,

although it is not a legal requirement. In passing, it is to be

observed that a large number of heavily contested issues

relating to the service of summons can be resolved without

embarking upon protracted inquiries, if process servers are

instructed to make every possible endeavour to obtain

written acknowledgement of the personal servlce of

summons. Remarkably, Section 5(B)(4) of The Debt Recovery

(Special Provisions) Act No 2 of 1990, imposes such a duty

on process servers. It requires them to set out in detail the

4

IIII,

!!

tI

manner, the person, place and other particulars relating to

the identity of the person, the date, and the time at which,

the decree nisi was served and also state in the report,

whether the person on whom it was served placed his

signature or thumb impression or both, or refused to place

the signature or thumb impression or both, m

acknowledgement of such service. Such a salutary guideline

to ensure the rights of the people and to eliminate the abuse

of the process of court has now become necessary to be

introduced into our CPC. Further, many judges of the

original Court have yet not considered following the

guideline in the exercise of their discretion as the head of

the institution.

Be that as it may, the vital question that has to be answered

in this matter is whether summons had in fact been served

on the defendant. In terms of Section 114 of the Evidence

Ordinance, the existence of any fact may be presumed

which the court thinks likely to have happened, regard

being had to the common course of natural events, human

conduct, and public and private business in their relation to

the facts of the particular case. Based on this provision, it

may be presumed that official acts have been regularly

performed. Given the benefit of the provision, to the

evidence of the process server and the reports filed by him,

one may presume that he had performed his official acts in

a balanced manner, avoiding irregularities. In such an

instance, the burden is on the defendant, if he desires to

have himself absolved from liability, to establish the facts he

5

asserts. In other words he has to rebut the "presumption of

fact" arising under section 114 of the Evidence Ordinance.

Section 9 of the Civil Procedure Code enacts that the

residence of a party defendant as one of the criteria to

decide the territorial jurisdiction in which an action to be

instituted. Section 40 of the CPC requires the plaintiff in an

action, amongst other duties to disclose particulars

regarding the place of residence of the defendant. The plaint

filed in this case discloses 146/28, Andeson road, Dehiwela

and Kappagoda, Mawanella as the addresses of the

defendant. However, paragraph 1 of the plaint states that

the defendant resides within the jurisdiction of the District

Court of Colombo. If that be the case, it is difficult to

understand as to what made the plaintiff to move for service

of summons on the defendant at Mawanella. On the other

hand, having served summons at Mawanella what made the

plaintiff to move for service of decree on the defendant at

Dehiwela remains a mystery. What is more important here

is to ascertain whether it is a sheer coincidence or a

prearranged scheme to abuse the process of law to serve

summons at one place and the decree at another place.

Amazingly, the summons on the defendant is said to have

been served on the 12th of December 1991 at Mawanella

while the decree has been served on 10th November 1992 at

Dehiwela. Somewhat strangely, both summons and decree

have been served by one particular process server. The

process sever was attached to the District Court of Kegalle

as at 12th December 1991 and to the District Court of

Mt.Lavinia as at 10th November 1992. In the circumstances,

6

,II ! ,IIIf

tI

the appellants allege that the process server has been

handpicked by the plaintiff to perpetrate a fraud.

In the light of allegation made against the plaintiff and the

process server, the learned district judge was obliged to

weigh the evidence adduced on behalf of both parties to

ascertain the truth. In this respect, it is appropriate to

reproduce some of the observations and comments made by

His Lordship Gamini Am aratunga , Judge of the Court of

Appeal (as he was then ) in CALA 80/2001, when he

disposed of the leave to appeal application filed by the

appellants, in relation to the application for writ pending

appeal. The thought provoking comments and observations

made in detail, deserve to be reproduced. The relevant

passage of it reads .. I quote

"The defendant was an attorney-at-law and a former

Member of Parliament. ..... .

The process server has given evidence that on 12/12/1991

he personally handed over summons to the defendant

around 10.00 a.m. while the defendant was in his house at

Kappagoda, Mawnella. The process server at that time was

serving in the district court of Kegalle. The defendant's son

has stated in evidence that on 12/12/1991 his father left

home around 5.30 to 6.00 a.m. and returned home around

7.30 or 8.00p.m. He has stated that no summons was served

on his father on that date and he remembered this date as it

was his birthday. An officer from Parliament has testified

that on 12.12.1991 the defendant had attended the session

of Parliament held at 2.00 p.m. on that day. The running

chart maintained for the car used by the defendant too had

been produced in evidence and according to this document,

(A2) the defendant had left home at 6.00 a.m.

7

It was the same process server who has served the exparte

decree on the defendant. By this time he has come on

transfer to Mt.Lavinia. He has stated on 12.11.1992 he

served the exparte decree personally on the defendant at the

latter's house at Anderson road. Dehiwela. According to the

evidence of one Wijerama. an employee of the Hadabima on

10.11.1992 the defendant was at the Gannoruwa office of

Hadabima.

An attorney-at-law is presumed to know the consequences

of the failure of the defendant. on whom summons had been

served. to appear in court on the summons returnable date.

If the defendant fails to appear the case against him is liable

to be fixed or taken up for exparte trial. Is there any reason

for an attorney-at-law who has received summons in a case

where Rs 2.5 million is claimed from him to keep away from

court? Is this normal conduct expected of an attorney-at-

law? In considering this question the court has to consider

the ordinary conduct of a person in the position of the

defendant. Such consideration is necessary in examining

whether this position that he did not receive summons is

probably explanation for his failure to appear in court. If he

has received summons what is that he was going to lose by

appearing in court and what repercussions arise from his

failure to appear in court? These are all very relevant

considerations deciding whether the existence of the fact

may be the non-receipt of the summons is so probably as to

persuade the prudent man to act on the supposition that the

fact is true. This is the test set out in section 3 of the Evidence

Ordinance. There is a total failure by the trial judge to

express his mind to any of the matters I have set out in this

passage resulting in a failure to apply the probability test to

evaluate defendants assertion that he did not receive

summons. Such considerations with greater force apply in

respect of the exparte decree. Will any sensible man

8

IIIl

!l,I

\

deliberately refrain from coming to court to purge his

default when an exparte decree for Rs Z.5 million is served

on him?

In considering the above matters the court also should have

considered whether the connection of the same process

server in two vital steps in a civil action has any bearing in

the evaluation of the defendant's version" - Unquote.

Considering the totality of the evidence led at the inquiry, I

am of the firm view that the learned district judge has failed

to evaluate the evidence prior to arriving at the conclusion

that the defendant has failed to establish that he was not

served with summons.

As to the claim made by the process server and the plaintiff

that summons was duly served on the defendant there was

overwhelming evidence to the contrary. The day in question

being the birthday of the 3rd substituted defendant-

appellant he could not have possibly made any mistake as

to the movements of the defendant on that day. The running

chart maintained in respect of the official motor-vehicle used

by the defendant which also falls within the ambit of

performing official duty has not been properly considered by

the learned district judge. On the contrary the learned

district judge without an iota of evidence has unreasonably

guessed certain matters as having actually existed based on

mere surmises. The trial Judge has in fact looked at the

evidence and then proceeded to conjecture on certain

unproven matters as well.

9

For example the appellants have produced the runnIng

chart of the defendant's vehicle applicable to the particular

day and certain other days. According to the running charts

the defendant has left his residence at Mawanalla around

5:30 AM. The learned district judge has rejected the running

charts including the one applicable to the day in question on

the assumption that it has been so maintained to claim the

monetary benefit of "subsistence".

The defendant at the inquiry before the learned trial judge

attempted to prove that summons and the decree could not

have been possibly served on him for the reason that he was

elsewhere when summons and decree are said to have been

served. As far as the service of summons is concerned, the

defendant had taken upon the burden of proving the

negative by his denial that he ever received summons. This

he could have proved only through circumstantial evidence

unlike adducing evidence in proof of a positive fact. In order

to discharge this burden the defendant had sought to prove

amongst other things, that he was not available at the place

when summons is alleged to have been served on him. It is

in that respect the 3rd substituted defendant-appellant has

testified.

The learned judge however had adopted a tendency to find

and call attention to errors and flaws of the evidence of the

defendant's son without any basis. The conclusion reached

by the learned district judge that the 3rd substituted-

defendant-appellant showed bias towards the deceased

10

defendant is baseless and an opInIOn formed beforehand

without valid justification.

As regards the evidence of the 3rd substituted defendant-

appellant, the learned district judge has failed to make any

meaningful evaluation as to the veracity of his evidence,

corroboration of his version by documentary evidence, the

degree of consistency and logical coherence maintained by

him. On the contrary the learned judge has embarked upon

a voyage of discovery on his own adopting an unreasonable

critical attitude.

The officer from the Parliament testified with certainty as to

the presence of the defendant at 2 PM on the day in

question at a meeting held at the parliamentary premises. It

is common sense that to be present at the parliamentary

premises around 2 PM, one has to leave Mawanella at least

by 11 A.M.

As regards the alleged service of decree, the defendant had

taken up the position that he was elsewhere on that day as

well. It was also spoken to by two official witnesses. The

witnesses who testified on this matter had spoken to the

presence of the defendant at Peradeniya on that day, not

from their memory but from official documents regularly

maintained.

The mann~~in which the summons and decree have been

served leadf."to the truth of the defendant's version. It is more

so when summons has been served at one address and

decree at another address. The learned district judge ought

to have elicited the truth as to whether the same process

server having to serve the summons and decree in an

11

I,•

I

I I !ItII

ii

tft

unusual manner was a mere coincidence or a deliberate

attempt to mislead court. It is strange that the plaintiff has

not given any plausible explanation as to what made him

move for service of decree through Mount Lavinia fiscal.

Whether it is a prearranged scheme to abuse the process of

court remains unanswered leaving a very high degree of

doubt as to the bona fides of the entire move.

According to the process server, he serves summons and

other legal documents between 6AM and 6PM. He has failed

to record the time at which he served the summons on 12th

December 1991 on the defendant. In evidence in chief, he

categorically stated that he cannot recall the time at which

summons was served on the defendant. Testifying after

more than five years of the service of summons, it is hardly

possible for him to have disclosed or recalled the exact time

of service, especially when he serves summons between 6

AM and 6 PM. Taking into consideration the sanctity

attached to the duties performed by the process server who

facilitates the process of implementing the audi alteram

partem rule, it is absolutely necessary that he should

maintain contemporaneous record for important matters

relating to service of summons. Both in P3 and P4 he has

never recorded the time at which he has served summons to

various people or any other useful details. As stated above,

he has never obtained the signature of the recipient of the

summons. Tainted with the infirmities P3 and P4 are of no

assistance to resolve the issue in favour of the plaintiff.

In the circumstances, it is my opinion that it is the duty of

court to rescue the defendant from being subject to an

12

tlt

r!

!!f ! I

I \ I

injustice in the hands of the process server who is it's agent.

As the appellants have established (on a balance of

probability) that there has been no service of summons, the

court had no authority or power to have proceeded against

the defendant. Undoubtedly, the principles of natural justice

being our basis of procedural law and jealously guarded

hitherto against possible violation should be given effect to

over all other issues. In the event of a reasonable doubt

arising as to the service of summons, it is my view that the

issue should be resolved in favour of the person who alleges

to have been deprived of the opportunity of being heard.

Consequently, the judgment entered against the defendant

is set aside and the learned district judge directed to take

steps to serve summons on those who are entitled to receive

the same, if the cause of action survives.

There shall be no costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Kwkj-

13

iII(I