==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A. Appeal No 219/2011 H.C.Panadura No 2380/2007

W.A. Satison Fernando No: 209, Moratuwa.

APPELLENT Vs. Hon. Attorney General Attorney General’s Department Colombo 12.

RESPONDENT

,

I i l I I !

I

1 I I 1 I j I i

C.A.Appeal No 219/2011 H.C.Panadura No 2380/2007

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

Sisira J. de Abrew, J. &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J.

Tenny Fernando for the Accused-Appellant.

Kapila Waidyaratne DSG for A/G.

18.11.2013

Sisira I. de Abrew, I

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of a man

named Kingsly Perera and was sentenced to death. He was also convicted for

the offence of causing simple hurt to Ramani Padmalatha who is the wife of the

deceased person and was sentenced to a term of 1 year rigorous imprisonment.

Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentences he has appealed to this

Court.

Facts of t his case are briefly summarized as follows:-On the day of the

incident around 1 a.m. the deceased person and his wife woke up as they heard a

door being opened. Both of them went out to see what the noise was. Wife of

the deceased person came back to the room as she could not see anything. But

1

\

j 1 i I I I I ! I ,

her husband did not come with her. Just then she heard two people talking

outside the house. She tried to go out but could not open the door. However

with the help of the son, she opened the door. When she opened the door she

saw the accused-appellant attacking her husband who was lying fallen on the

ground with an iron rod. Most of the injuries were on the head. In order to

prevent the husband being attacked she held on to the club which was being

used by the accused-appellant. As a result of the attempt she too sustained a

contusion. Medical evidence supports the fact that she sustained a contusion

which could have been caused with an iron rod. According to the medical

evidence there were 24 injuries on the body of the deceased person. Most of

them were on the face and the head. Her son Madushanka Perera too gave

evidence describing the attack. The investigating police officer, in inconsequence

of the statement made by the accused-appellant, recovered the iron rod.

Government Analyst confirms that there was human blood on the said iron rod.

The accused-appellant in his dock statement took up an alibi. But this defence of

alibi was not suggested to the eye witnesses. Therefore the learned trial Judge

was correct when he rejected the defence of alibi. Soon after the incident, the

wife of the deceased person took her husband to the hospital in a three wheeler

and thereafter went to the police station. She made a complaint to the police

around 1.10 a.m. Thus her evidence satisfies the test of promptness. The fact she

was present at the scene and saw the incident is amply corroborated by the fact

that she sustained an injury. When we consider the number of injuries and the

2

place where the injuries were caused it is very clear that the accused-appellant

had entertained murderous intention at the time of the incident. When we

consider all these matters, we are of the opinion that the prosecution has proved

its case beyond reasonable doubt. Learned trial Judge was right when he

convicted the accused-appellant for the offence of murder and causing simple

hurt to Padmalatha.

We see no reason to interfere with the judgment of the learned Trial

Judge. For the above reasons, we affirm the conviction, death sentence and the

punishment imposed on the accused-appellant on Count No.2. We dismiss the

appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C.Jayathilake, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

KLP/-

3