==== BLOCKS ==== 

• 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI

LANKA

C.A. 227/2009

Attanayake Arachchige Anura Kumarasiri

Alias Sure

Accu sed-Appe Iia nt

H. C. of Ampara Case No. HC/AMP/1240/2007.

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General.

Respondent

Sisira J. de Abrew,J. (Acting PICA) &

P.W.D. C. Jayathilaka,J.

Amila Palliyage for the accused-appellant

Vijitha Malalgoda, A.S.G. for the A.G.

22.02.2014

Sisira J. de Abrew,J.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

1 j

1 ! I

2

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of a man

named Sarath Jayaweera and a woman named Niranjala Shayamali. The learned

trial Judge, after trial, sentenced the accused-appellant to death on both counts.

Being aggrieved by the said conviction and sentence, he has appealed to this

Court. According to the prosecution case, the deceased Sarath J ayaweera, who

was an army soldier attached to Konduwatuwana Army Camp in Ampara, was in

the habit of taking her little daughter on his motor cycle for a short distance every

day in the morning before he goes to his army camp. After the ride, he used to

come and drop her daughter near the gate. His wife was in the habit of bringing

the lunch packet to be given to him when he dropped the daughter near the gate.

On the day of the incident, when Sarath Jayaweera did the above routing work, the

accused-appellant who was a home guard attached to Central Camp Police Station

in Ampara came shot the deceased Sarath Jayaweera. Before he shot Sarath

Jayaweera, Niranjala Shayamali who was the wife Sarath Jayaweera covered her

husband and appealed to the accused-appellant not to shoot. But the accused-

appellant without heeding to the request of Niranjala Shayamali shot both of

them. The above facts were revealed by the dying deposition of Niranjala

Shayamali who died 14 days after the incident. Rosalin who is the mother of

Niranjala Shayamali, on hearing a gun shot, in the morning of 25.07.2006, went

I ! 3

near the road and saw both Sarath Jayaweera and Niranjala Shayamali lying fallen

on the road with bleeding injuries. She then walked up to the place shouting not

to shoot. At this stage, the accused-appellant addressed her in the following

language. "You go away. I will shoot you too." At this time accused-appellant

wt~t(Sb~

shot Sarath tayaweera who was lying fallen,.with T 56 gttfl. This was the summary A..

of the prosecution case.

The accused-appellant who gave evidence said that on the day of the

incident he found his water connection disconnected and thereafter he took his

gun and came to the road. He then saw the deceased Sarath Jayaweera coming on

his motor cycle. The deceased Sarath Jayaweera having stopped his motor cycle,

walked up to the accused-appellant addressing him in the following language. " I

am from army are you trying to kill me". At this time the accused-appellant,

who got frighten and thought that the deceased Sarath Jayaweera would grab his

gun shot the deceased Sarath Jayaweera. This was the summary of the evidence of

the accused-appellant.

Learned counsel appeanng for the accused-appellant submits that the

accused-appellant should have been convicted of the offence of culpable homicide

not amounting to murder on the basis of grave and sudden provocation. Even if

we consider the evidence of the accused-appellant, we are unable to conclude that

t I I IIl

I

J l \

4

the accused-appellant was suffering from grave and sudden provocation. Although

there is evidence to the effect that there was a dispute between the parties with

regard to the water connection that was going over the land of Rosalin, we are

unable to conclude that this has given grave and sudden provocation to the

accused-appellant.

When we consider the evidence led at the trial, we are unable to interfere

with the learned trial Judge's conclusion. For the above reason we refuse to

interfere with the learned trial Judge's conclusion. We affirm the ccnv£ctions and

the sentence and dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Cr/-

f

fI :