==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

c. A NO. 1189/96 (F) Vs

D.O. Amaratunga,

Digampitiya Ousada Osusala,

Kurundugaha Hataekma, Elpitiya.

DEFENDANTAPPEALLANT

D. C. Balapitiya 1791/L

Before:

Chandrapala Bandarigoda,

Wickrama Stores, Pitigala,

PLAINTIFF - RESPONDENT.

A.W.A. SALAM, J.

Counsel Vidura Gunaratna for the defendant-appellant and Rohan Sahabandu for the plaintiff-respondent.

Argued on: 10.11.2010

Written Submissions tendered on: 12.01.2011.

Decided on: 26.04.2011

A W A Salam,J

~e Plaintiff instituted action praying inter alia for a 1 decree of ejectment and damages against the Defendant.

The trial was heard exparte against the defendant and decree

entered in favour of the plaintiff as prayed for in the plaint.

Subsequently, the defendant made an application to have the

said decree set aside for alleged want of service of summons.

1

........................................................ _. ~u ...... ~~F71TW771=s=t ~~~ .................... _ .............. -...... _i~'""""== ... ':oa;:;..;~f . -ns===·~""' ........ -~1-f:

The learned district judge dismissed the application by order

dated 13.09.1996 and the present appeal has been preferred

by the defendant to set aside the said order.

The journal entries maintained in the original cDurt reveal

that the action was filed on 13th September 1999 and

summons issued for the first time returnable on 22nd

January 1992. However as the defendant could not be traced

summons had not been served on him on that day and it was

reissued for 13th May 1992. According to the record

summons had been served on the defendant on 22 April

1992. As the defendant was absent and unrepresented on

that date the matter had been heard exparte.

The defendant in his attempt to purge default alleged that he

was never served the summons as reported by the process

server. As such the pivotal question that arose for

determination at the inquiry held into the application of the

defendan t was whether summons had in fact been served on

him as asserted by the plaintiff or there was want of such

service.

At the inquiry into the application of the defendant, the

defendant gave evidence and closed his case producing the

documents marked as D 1 to D3. In presenting the case of the

plaintiff the process server's evidence was led in addition to

the evidence of the plaintiff. According to the plaintiff

summons on the defendant had not been served for a long

period of time and the process server was not able to meet

the defendant at the given address at least for a period of one

year. (vide proceedings dated 15.12.1994 -page 16 -folio

134 of the brief). This evidence of the plaintiff is completely

contradictory to the journal entries maintained by the lower

court. According to the journal entries the summons

lO en en .-t -en 00 .-t .-t is

2

I

returnable date was 22.1.1992 and it was later extended to

13.5.1992 and summons had in fact been allegedly served on

22.04.1992 when the fiscal was accompanied by the plaintiff.

Noticeably, as at 22.4.1992 a period of only seven months

had lapsed after the institution of the case and the process

server had been unsuccessful in serving summons only once.

In this background it cannot be assumed that there was

inordinate delay of one year in the service of summons as

claimed by the plaintiff.

Incidentally, the plaintiff is a member of the Southern

Provincial Council. His move to contact the process server

and to accompany him in his car to serve summons was

quite unusual. Further, without an order of court to effect

"pointed out service of summons", by prior arrangement the

plaintiff had met the process server and taken him to the

address of the defendant in his car to serve the summons. As

a matter of fact admittedly summons had been served upon

the defendant on being pointed out by the plaintiff. The

relevant evidence on this matter is reproduced below from the

proceedings.

gGfo!DC -a>®,w O®~ oz®63@C)oz oz®63c)~

~® dO)o!DcD?

Ccia>oc -oz®63@C)0z o)(i6 C))(5)o!DC o!DC)a»

aDc). ~a® qO(5)~a»C)cci .!:Dz(5)z (iO)C)G),w.!:D.

Q)~o!D(iC))D® oz®63@C)oz (iO,wC)) aDc)

~ci6Sc)oz·

A significant difference between pointed out service of

summons and personal service by fiscal is that in the former

case the person who points out the defendant, takes the

responsibility upon himself as to the regularity of service of

summons. In order to ensure this he gives an affidavit to that

+" c: Q) E 1:10 "0

::J .....

3

1 f

effect which is accompanied by an affidavit of the process

server as well. In the case of the process server effecting

personal service of summons on the defendant, an affidavit

from the process server would suffice. In this matter the

plaintiff had not filed any affidavit affirming to the fact that

he pointed out the defendant or testified to that effect before

the case was fixed for exparte hearing. It is difficult to

understand as to what made the plaintiff to take the process

server in his car to serve summons if the process server was

able to effect personal service on the defendant without being

pointed out. The process server had worked in this area for

nearly 15 years i.e. from 1978 to 1992. The defendant is an

Ayurvedic physician who runs a dispensary from the year

1986. There was no evidence that the defendant had been

evading summons. As pointed out earlier no order has been

made by court for pointed out service. The learned district

judge has failed to advert to this factual background In

ascertaining the credibility of the plaintiffs version.

The process server had been questioned as to whether he

obtained the signature of the defendant at home service of

the summons and he replied in the negative. Although there

is no requirement to obtain the signature of the recipient of

the summons, as the process server had served summons

upon the defendant being pointed out he could have easily

taken the precaution of demanding the signature of the

defendant in the acknowledgement of the receipt of

summons. In passing it must be mentioned that it would

have been salutary had the process server made a sincere

endeavour to obtain an acknowledgement in writing from the

defendant as to the service of summons, particularly as he

had followed a different method than what he had usually

adopted in serving summons.

\.0 O"l O"l .-1 -O"l co .-1 .-1 5

LI.

~--~~--~~~------~~~----~~------~~~~---~~--~----~-=~~~-~------~~~---~~91

It has been contended in the original court that since the

process server was facing a charge of bribery the learned

district judge should have been cautious before accepting his

evidence. As the process server had not been convicted of

bribery, I do not think that any adverse inferences should

have been drawn or the learned district judge should have

been extraordinarily cautious before accepting his evidence.

Another salient defect in the impugned order is the failure to

analyze the evidence placed before the learned district judge,

prior to his coming to the conclusion that summons had in

fact been served on the defendant. The learned district judge

has not given any reason for his conclusion. The failure on

the part of the learned district judge to give sufficient reasons

for his decision is a manifest violation of the provisions of

section 187 of the Civil Procedure Code. Yet, his decision

cannot be given effect to as it had substantially prejudiced

the rights of the defendant. As the circumstances in which

summons had been served on the defendant appear to be

tainted with irregularities and clouded with grave suspicion

his decision on the disputed matter cannot in any event be

justified.

To set aside the order of the learned district judge and to

send the matter for a fresh inquiry would mean a protracted

second inquiry and an unnecessary appeal. In the

circumstances, I am of the view that the impugned order

should be set aside as it has ended up in a miscarriage of

Justice. Further, it is my opinion that the end of Justice can

be met by substituting an appropriate order in place of the

impugned order so as to facilitate the expeditious disposal of

the main case. Therefore, I set aside the impugned order and

substitute the same with the finding that the defendant has

not been properly served with summons prior to the hearing

M M o N g u:i N

.... c: QJ E tID "C :J ...,

"C c: III ...J ~ 0'"1 ,..... M

III > :;:; .0. .!!!

III co U o

5

,

being fIxed exparte. The learned district judge is directed to

take steps to serve summons on the defendant according to

law and to proceed with the matter.

There shall be no costs.

~~ ... Judge of the Court of Appeal

NTj-

.... .... o N g u:i N

\D en en .... -en 00 .... .... 6