==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I

1 IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

M. Prageeth Athurupana.

Accused-Appellant.

Vs.

The Hon. Attorney-General.

Respondent.

CA NO.126/2009

HIGH COURT OF ANURADHAPURA CASE NO. 215/2001

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED &

DECIDED ON:

Sisira J De Abrew J. (Acting PICA) &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J.

Amila Palliyage for the Accused-Appellant.

Thusith Mudalige SSC for the Respondent.

06.02.2014.

Sisira J De Abrew J. (Acting PICA)

1

2

Accused-Appellant produced by the Prison Authorities IS

present in Court.

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted for raping

a woman named Chandani Amarasena and was sentenced to a

term of 10 years rigorous imprisonment, to pay a fine of

Rs.I0,000/= carrying a default sentence of 6 months rigorous

imprisonment and to pay a sum of Rs.200,000/= as compensation

to the victim carrying a default sentence of 2 years rigorous

imprisonment. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the

sentence he has appealed to this Court. Facts of this case as

narrated by prosecution witnesses may be briefly summarized as

follows:-

On the day of the incident around 1.30 p.m. when the

prosecutrix was all alone at home, the accused-appellant came and

blindfolded her with a piece of cloth. Thereafter, the accused-

appellant took her on his shoulders for a distance which had been

described by the prosecutrix as 4 k.m. But according to the police

officer, it was 500 meters. Thereafter, the accused-appellant put

her on the ground using force, raised her frock, removed her

iI

i ,

j j l J

~ i j I I i

~ I

f I 1 ! I i i I I ! I

3

knickers and raped. According to the prosecutrix, at this time the

accused removed his trouser and his underwear. He was armed

with a knife at the time of the incident. According to the

prosecutrix, she was raped on a shrub jungle where thorny bushes

were found. She says that she sustained injuries in her legs.

Further, she says that this was her first sexual intercourse.

Accused denied the incident in his evidence and said that on the

day of the alleged incident by the prosecutrix he was working in a

paddy field close to the prosecutrix's house. After working in the

paddy field for some time the accused who felt thirsty went to a

nearby well which was also close to the prosecutrix house. After

drinking water from the well he went back to his paddy field. Little

later he again went to the said well and drank some water.

Lionel Goonethilake, who was listed as a prosecution

witness was called by the accused-appellant to give evidence.

According to Lionel Goonethilake's evidence the accused-appellant

on the day of the incident alleged by the prosecutrix was working

in the paddy field. Lionel Goonethilake too was working in the

same paddy field. Lionel Goonethilake in his evidence says that

accused went to fetch water to the nearby well on two occasions.

According to the police officer's evidence the accused was arrested

IJfft

t ! I I I

f I

4

while he was working in the paddy field. According to the charge

the prosecutrix was under 16 years of age. The fact that she was

under 16 years of age could not be proved by the prosecution.

However, learned trial Judge, when he wrote the judgment

amended the charge, bringing the charge under Section 364( 1) of

the Penal Code. He was originally charged under Section 364(2)(e )

of the Penal Code. It has to be noted that when the learned trial

Judge amended the charge no opportunity was given to the defence

Counsel to cross-examine the prosecutrix whether or not she

consented to the sexual intercourse. If he was charged under

Section 364(2) (e) of the Penal Code the question of consent does

not arise. But if the accused was charged under Section 364(1) of

the Penal Code, the question of consent must be considered. To

prove a charge under Section 364(1) of the Penal Code, prosecution

must prove following ingredients beyond reasonable doubt.

1. Sexual intercourse was committed on the woman.

2. Sexual intercourse was committed on the woman by the

accused -appellant.

3. Sexual intercourse was committed on the woman without

her consent or against her will.

tI •f II1,f t f

I

I l 1

5

Since the accused-appellant has been convicted on a charge under

Section 364(1) of the Penal Code, the prosecution must prove the

3rd ingredient. If there is a reasonable doubt on the 3rd ingredient

the accused-appellant should be acquitted. Since the prosecution

must prove that the sexual intercourse was committed on the

woman without her consent or against her will, it is necessary to

consider whether there was any reasonable doubt on the question

of consent. Prosecutrix says that this was her first sexual

intercourse. According to the doctor, she was examined on the

same day (14th of May 1999). Although the prosecutrix says that

this was her first sexual intercourse, doctor says that he found old

tears in her hymen. Therefore, her evidence that this was her first

sexual intercourse becomes false. According to her, she sustained

an abrasion on her legs. But doctor did not find any abrasions on

her legs. Doctor only found a nail mark on her breast. Thus her

evidence that she sustained injuries on her legs becomes false.

She claims that she was raped on a land where there were thorny

bushes. If this evidence is true, there should be injuries on her

buttocks and legs. But the doctor says that there were no injuries

on her legs and buttocks. Then her evidence becomes false. When

we consider the above matters, it is difficult to conclude that she

was subjected to sexual intercourse on 14th of May 1999 as alleged f ! ,

\ II

I I t I I j I

6

by her. We come to the said conclusion especially when we

consider the medical evidence. Thus, there is a reasonable doubt

on the 1 st ingredient of the charge. As I pointed out earlier she has

given false evidence. Assuming without conceeding that the

accused-appellant committed sexual intercourse on her, was it

committed without her consent or against her will? When I

consider this matter I must not forget her evidence that she was

carried on his shoulder for four kilo meters. According to the

Police Officer this distance was 500 meters. Assuming without

conceeding that it was 500 meters, can he carry her this distance

on his shoulder without her consent? I think not. Therefore it

appears that she had consented to the journey. When we

consider all these matters we hold the view that the prosecution

has not proved its case beyond reasonable doubt. Learned trial

judge has unfortunately failed to consider the above matters and

proceeded to convict the accused-appellant. In a rape case if the

woman has given false evidence on a vital point, it is dangerous to

act on her evidence even if her evidence is corroborated.

For the above reasons, we decide to interfere with the

learned trial judge's conclusion. We hold that the prosecution has

not proved its case beyond reasonable doubt. We therefore set-

1 I I

7

aside the conviction and the sentence imposed on the accused-

appellant and acquit him of the charge with which he was

convicted. The accused-appellant is present produced by the

Prison Authorities. Registrar of this Court is directed to send a

copy of this judgment to the Prison Authorities without delay.

Since we set-aside the conviction and the sentence we set-aside the

committal signed by the learned trial judge. Prison Authorities will

have no authority to keep the accused-appellant in their custody

once they receive a copy of this judgment. It is not necessary for

the Prison Authorities to produce the accused appellant in the

relevan t High Court and get an order of release.

Appeal allowed. Accused acquitted.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

Mmj-.