==== BLOCKS ==== 

.

I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A 286/1998 (F)

Balapatabendige Piyadasa No. 1081, Pannipitiya Road, Battaramulla.

PLAINTIFF -APPELLANT

D.C. Colombo 15204/MR

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDEDON:

Anil Gooneratne J .&

Vs.

B. A. Don Jayantha Hemakumara No. 107/2, Talawathugoda Road, Pitakotte.

DEFENDANT -RESPONDENT

S. A. D. S. Suraweera for the Plaintiff-Appellant

U. De. Z. Gunawardena with D. Jayathilleke for the Defendant-Respondent

17.01.2013

31.01.2013

2

GOONERA TNE J.

This was an action filed in the District Court of Colombo

claiming a sum of Rs. 10,50,000/- due to injuries caused to the Plaintiff,

according to matters raised in paragraph 4 of the plaint, and the Plaintiff

allege more particularly that the Defendant negligently knocked him down

whilst he was riding his bicycle. Parties proceeded to trial on 4 admissions

and on 11 issues. This appeal has been preferred to this court by the

Plaintiff-Appellant from the judgment of the learned District Judge dated

4.5 .1998, dismissing Plaintiffs case.

In Plaintiffs evidence, he states that on 1.12.1993 he was riding

his cycle on his way to his home and at about 7.00 p.m, was knocked down

by the vehicle driven by the Defendant-Respondent from behind. It was

Plaintiffs evidence that he never heard the noise of a hom or breaks being

applied. Plaintiff also produced statement to the police marked P 1 and

documents P2 to P 10, which includes certified copy of the Magistrate's

Court case filed against the Defendant-Respondent where Defendant-

Respondent pleaded guilty (P2) to the charges preferred in the Magistrate's

Court and medical reports/diagnosis certificate and income particulars etc.

I ,lt I l

J,III I' I

I

~ i'~ f

IIiIi ,,

3

The Appellant inter alia urge the following points to

demonstrate that the trial Judge had erred in his judgment.

(a) Trial Judge's view is that accident occurred due to unavoidable circumstances

and the negligence of Plaintiff. Appellant urge that there was no evidence to

support the view of the trial Judge.

(b) Attention of Court is drawn to the charge sheet before the Magistrate's Court

where the Defendant had pleaded guilty unconditionally to the said charges.

(document P2 at page 1 09 and paragraphs 1 and 2 of the said charge sheet

discloses the fact that the Defendant had knocked down the Plaintiff from

behind and in doing so, had driven the vehicle without control and at an

unmanageable speed which was not appropriate under the circumstances.

(c) The Defendant had pleaded guilty unconditionally to the said charges and the

admissibility of the said plea of guilt in the instant action had eluded the

learned trial judge in arriving at his judgment in the instant action. There is no

plausible comment by the learned trial judge on the said aspect of the case and

it is well settled law that a plea of guilt before the Magistrate's court is

admissible evidence in a civil suit. However the learned trial judge had

rejected the said plea on the basis that the circumstances of the case

establishes the fact that the Defendant had pleaded guilty to the charges in

order to conclude the proceedings in short.

(d) The learned counsel for the Defendant-Respondent placed a heavy reliance

upon the statement of the Plaintiff-Appellant, just after the accident and after

he regained consciousness in hospital. In the said statement, the Plaintiff had

stated that he fell in to a pot hole and was thrown off the bicycle which he was

riding to the side of the road. However the learned trial Judge had concluded

that the plaintiff had fallen to the middle of the road without any evidence to

support the contention of the Defendant and this is a very vital aspect in the

case which the learned trial judge had failed to consider.

(e) The plaintiff had made the said statement just after he regained consciousness

in hospital and there was no reason to believe that he had made the said

4

statement with the intention of instituting action for damages against the

Defendant in future. However the Defendant after a long time form the

accident had ample time to adjust his version to suit his case and taken up the

position that the Plaintiff had fell on to the road and there was only a distance

of about 1 0 to 15 feet between his vehicle and the Plaintiff.

(f) A distance of about 10 to 15 feet is a reasonable distance for any driver to

avert an accident by applying brakes if he had traveled at a reasonable speed.

The learned counsel for the Respondent in the course of his reply submitted

that the learned trial judge had to arrive at his judgment on the most probable

case presented before him on the evidence but not on conjecture. There is no

doubt that the learned trial judge had to consider the more probable case

presented before him but the pertinent question is as to what was the more

probable case presented before him.

The Appellant seeks to establish that the Defendant failed to act with

caution and care towards the road users. Appellant state the Defendant failed

to establish any speed of his vehicle and the reaction time to apply breaks

and the minimum required distance to stop the vehicle. Another point

stressed is that there was no defence of contributory negligence pleaded and

no issue raised on same.

The trial Judge m his judgment has considered very many

primary facts. Unless the judgment could be called a perverse judgment on

the basis of the ruling on highly unacceptable facts, the Appellate Court is

not bound to disturb primary facts. 1993(1) SLR 119; 20 NLR 332. The

learned District Judge observes that the Plaintiff was riding his cycle which

~ ' ; l

\

r

~~lIII l

~

~

f

f

f

..

5

had no lights or a lamp and the Plaintiff was holding a bottle and a torch in

one hand. The place of point of impact was not under construction,

according to Plaintiff but the trial court does not accept that position, having

considered the material contained in the statement made to the police by

Plaintiff on 16.2.1993.

On very vital points of the accident the learned District Judge

accepts the defendant's version to be more probable, especially that the

Defendant drove the vehicle at a reasonable speed, Plaintiff could not

control the cycle since he was holding the torch/bottle on one hand and the

Plaintiff had at the time steared the cycle suddenly to the middle of the road

and fallen. As such the Defendant met with an unavoidable accident. Though

the Plaintiff tried to prove negligence of Defendant, the trial judge having

correctly annalysed the evidence on the aspect of unavoidable accident, had

accepted the more probable version on a balance of probability. The

Plaintiff-Appellant had not been able to convince me that the trial judge had

erred in his assessment on the question of negligence of the Defendant in his

oral or written submissions. Let me refer to an extract from the judgment,

which this court does not wish to disturb.

~i

~

~

~

!!

Ir

lJI I

tI

..

6

Another important observation of the trial judge is that injuries

had been caused based on medical evidence, to the Plaintiffs right leg which

fortify the version of Defendant. If the Plaintiffs position that he was

knocked down from behind, the injuries would have been caused in a

different manner. These are vital factual positions best left to the judgment

and observations, of the trial court.

I would also deal with the plea of guilt by the Defendant-

Respondent in the Magistrate's Court. The appellant's position was that the

plea of guilt in the Magistrate's Court is admissible evidence in a civil suit. I

had the benefit of perusing the submissions of the learned counsel for the

Defendant-Respondent on this aspect of the case and on which I am fully

convinced of his views, having looked at the dicta in Nadarajah vs. Ceylon

ItI I

~ t

. .

7

Transport Board 79 NLR 49, which states that guilt tendered is relevant as

an admission, and ought to be taken into consideration, in the civil suit. The

above dicta cannot be looked at in isolation with Section 41 of the Evidence

Amendment Act No. 33 of 1998, which was introduced into our law very

much subsequently to the above decided case. The learned counsel for the

Defendant-Respondent has also in the light of the above provisions of the

said Evidence Amendment Act, thought it fit to refer to Section 11 of the

Civil Evidence Act of the United Kingdom.

The gist of the argument placed before this court by learned

counsel was that the relevant provisions of the U.K. Amendment Act create

a presumption of guilt, and not the provisions of Section 41 of our Statute.

Section 41 A(1) & 41(2) of Amendment Act No. 33 of 1998 reads thus:

41.A (1) Where in an action for defamation, the question whether any person committed

a criminal offence is a fact in issue, a judgment of any court in Sri Lanka recording a

conviction of that person for that criminal offence, being a judgment against which no

appeal has been preferred within the appealable period or which has been finally affirmed

on appeal, shall be relevant for the purpose of proving that such person committed such

offence, and shall be conclusive proof of that fact.

(2) Without prejudice to the provisions of section (1 ), where in any civil proceedings, the

question whether any person, whether such person is a party to such civil proceedings or

not, has been convicted of any offence by any court or court martial in Sri Lanka, or has

committed the acts constituting an offence, is a fact in issue, a judgment or order of such

court or court martial recording a conviction of such person for such offence, being a

fIIlIl

~ !il

\

Il l '

. ~

8

judgment or order against which no appeal has been preferred within the appealable

period, or which has been finally affirmed in appeal, shall be relevant for the purpose of

proving that such person committed such offence or committed the acts constituting such

offence.

Illustration (a) referred to therein is as follows:

(a) B injures C while driving A's car in the course ofB's employment with A.

B is convicted for careless driving

In an action for damages instituted by C against A and B, B' s conviction is

relevant.

I agree that the above provisions of our law more particularly

Section 41 (2) does not give the conviction the force of a presumption of

guilt but only makes the conviction relevant in civil cases. Even a

presumption of guilt could be disproved by evidence to the contrary in the

civil case. In the circumstances of the case in hand I cannot take the view

that the conviction in the Magistrate's Court is an admission of guilt, but it is

only a relevant fact, which on evidence that surfaced in the civil court has

disproved Plaintiffs case and has been off set by the evidence led at the

trial. The conviction in this case cannot be treated as a relevant fact since it

does not meet the requirement of relevance and reliability.

l

~ i f!'

' IIIII

9

The evidence very plainly and clearly demonstrate that the

accident took place at 7.00 p.m, and the point of impact would be dark at the

given time. Plaintiff could not have had a proper balance on the handle of

the cycle with a bottle and a torch in one hand. Plaintiff could not have

maintained a steady forward approach in his cycle. No doubt the cycle fell

into the pothole. Therefore the case of the Defendant-Respondent is more

probable. I am convinced and more inclined to accept and adopt the version

of the Defendant-Respondent and the views of the learned District Judge,

Since evidence disproved the Plaintiffs case and as observed above the

relevant fact could be disproved by the evidence which surface at the trial.

In all the above circumstances I am inclined to affirm the

judgment of the learned District Judge. As such I dismiss this appeal with

out costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

II

f I I I f lI

Ir