==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

C.A. Appeal No. 1290/96(F) D.C. Matale No. 46861L

Before: A. W.A. SALAM, 1.

1. Nagaha Pillewe Ayupala 2. Munde HenegedaraJayawathie, Raj amalwatta,

Gammaduwa

Defenadant-Appellants

Vs Thenne Kumburagedara Muthu Banda,

Sub-Post Officer,

Gammaduwa Plaintiff-Respondent

Counsel: Nimal Muthukumarana for the Defendant-Appellant and Harsha Soza PC with Srihan Samaranayaka for the Plaintiff-Appellant

Written Submissions tendered on

Decided on

A. W.Abdus Salam, 1.

23.02.2011

04.03.2011

T

his appeal arises from the judgment dated 24 September

1996 of the learned district judge of Matale. The facts

briefly are that the plaintiff respondent instituted action against

the defendant-appellants for a declaration of title, ejectment and

damages in respect of lot 2 of the land called Moralande Hena in

extent 2 roods and 36.89 perches depicted in plan No 3093 of

4.1.1988 made by K S Samarasingha, licensed surveyor.

As far as the title to the said allotment of land is concerned, the

plaintiff has adduced clear proof of documentary and orderly

evidence. The title of the plaintiff emanates from a final decree in

a partition action. As a matter of fact the 3rd defendant in the

partition action is the 1 st defendant in this case.

Subsequent to the conclusion of the partition action the plaintiff

who had been allotted the subject matter of this action has

taken out a writ of possession against the defendants and has

successfully evicted them from the subject matter through the

fiscal. However the defendants have re-entered the subject

matter and thereafter an application has been filed against them

under section 325 (1) of the Civil Procedure Code. At this inquiry

the plaintiff has given an unconditional undertaking to give up

possession of the subject matter.

Upon a perusal of the judgment, it appears that the subject

matter has been clearly admitted by the defendants. They have

C.A. Appeal No. 1290/96(F) D.C. Matale No. 46861L

not proved to the satisfaction of the learned district judge that

they have any legal basis to be in possession of the subject

matter.

In the circumstances, I see no reasons to interfere with the

findings, judgment and decree of the learned district judge

entered in favour of the plaintiff. For reasons stated above, this

appeal stands dismissed subject to costs.

~~ Judge of the Court of Appeal

NT/-

C.A. Appeal No. 1290/96(F) D.C. Matale No. 46861L