==== BLOCKS ==== 

J

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

l.W. Jane Nona Kumbuka, Gonapola 2.W. Wijerathna, Maha Uduwa 3.K. Kusumawathie, Horana 4.W.Dayawansa, Maha Uduwa

14th, 15th, 17th and 24th Defendant-Appellants C.A. NO.499/98(F) &499 A 198 (F)

Vs. D.C.HORANA CASE NO.2311P

BEFORE

COUNSEL

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON

DECIDED ON

H. D. Chalo Singho, Maha Uduwa

Substituted-Plaintiff-Respondent

D. Surabiel, Maha Uduwa

and others Defendant- Respondents

K. T. CHITRASIRI, J

Dr.Jayantha Pathirana with D.D.P.Dassanayake for the 15th and 24th Defendant-Appellants

J.A.J.Udawatta with Sanjaya Kannangara, for the Substituted Plaintiff-Respondent

28th May 2013 by the Substituted-Plaintiff-Respondent 03 rd June 20113 by the 15th & 24th Defendant-Appellant

25.07.2013

tI

I

tII

IIt

(

i 1 , I

·1 I I I

2

CHITRASIRI, J.

These two appeals have been preferred consequent upon the

delivery of judgment in the action bearing No.231jP filed in the District

Court of Horana. It is an action filed to have the land called

Delgahawatta which is morefully described in the schedule to the plaint,

partitioned. Learned District Judge, after a protracted trial made order

to partition the said land having allocated shares to the parties, as

specified in his judgment.

When the appeal was taken up for hearing in this Court, learned

Counsel for the appellants made an application to have this case

remitted back to the District Court for re-trial submitting that it is not

correct to permit the impugned judgment to stand since it had been

delivered without substituting the heirs in place of the 8th , 10th , 16th , 19th

and 20th defendants who had died whilst the case was pending in the

lower Court. He substantiated this application citing a Supreme Court

decision made in the case of Gamarallage Karunawathie V. Godayalage

Piyasena. [S.C.Appeal No.09Aj2010 decided on 05.12.2011 jBar

Association Law Journal 2012 pg.81] This decision has been followed in

the case of V.P.William Singho Vs I.V.Japin Perera and others as well.

[SC. HC. CA. LA. No.145j2011 decided on 08.06.2012]

3

However, learned Counsel for the plaintiff-respondent submitted

that the Court of Appeal is not bound to follow these two decisions since

those have been given per incuriam as the Supreme Court had failed to

consider Section 81 (9) of the Partition law No.21 of 1979 as amended by

Act No. 17 of 1997 on the question of substitution of heirs in place of the

deceased parties to the action.

In the said judgment in Karunawathie Vs. Piyasena, (supra) it was

held that:

((When a party to a case had died during the pendency of that case, it would not be possible for the Court to proceed with that matter without bringing in the legal representatives of the deceased in his place". [2012 B L R at pg.81]

The Supreme Court, on this question of non-substitution and its effects

on a judgment, has further stated [at pg. 84] that;

((In the present appeal, as clearly stated earlier, prior to the judgment of the District Court dated 20.05.2005, the 15th

respondent who was the 16A Respondent as well had died on 30.05.2004. No steps were taken for substitution of parties.

Thereafter, an appeal was taken before the High Court and its judgment was delivered on 13.10.2009. However, the

2nd Respondent had died prior to that on 06.09.2007.

Accordingly, it is evident that both of those judgments are

ineffective and therefore each judgment would be rejected as a nullity".

4

Admittedly, no substitution had been effected by the trial judge to

substitute the heirs in the room of the deceased 8th, 10th, 16th, 19th and

20th defendants though they have died while the case was pending before

him or in other words before the impugned judgment was pronounced. In

the circumstances, it is necessary to examine the principle governing the

decisions given per incuriam and its application to the doctrine of stare

decisis.

Halsbury's Laws of England describes the rule of per incuriam as

follows:

"A decision is given per incuriam when the court has acted in

ignorance of a previous decision of its own or of a court of co-

ordinate jurisdiction which covered the case before it, in which case

it must decide which case to follow; or when it has acted in

ignorance of a House of Lords Decision, in which case it must follow

that decision; or when the decision is given in ignorance of the

terms of a statute or rule having statutory force."

[Halsbury's Laws of England, 4th Edition Volume 26 Para 578 at pages

297 and 298]

Professor Rupert Cross in his Book "Precedent in English Law"

[3rd Edition - 1977] explains the rule at pages 143 &144 as follows:

"The principle appears to be that a decision can only be said to have

been given per incuriam if it is possible to point to a step in the

reasoning and show that it was faulty because of a failure to

5

mention a statute, a rule having statutory effect or an

authoritative case which might have made the decision different

from what it was. "

In the case of Young v Briston Aeroplane Company Ltd reported

in (1944) 2 All E.R. 293, Lord Green M.R. at page 300 held thus:

"But where the Court is satisfied that an earlier decision was given

in ignorance of the terms of a statute or a rule having the force of a

statute the position is very different. It cannot, in our opinion, be

right to say that in such a case the Court is entitled to disregard the

statutory provision and is bound to follow a decision of its own given

when that provision was not present to its mind. Cases of this

description are examples of decisions given per incuriam. We do not

think that it would be right to say that there may not be other cases

of decisions given per incuriam in which this Court might properly

consider itself entitled not to follow an earlier decision of its own.

Such cases would obviously be of the rarest occurrence and must be

dealt with in accordance with their special facts.

Furthermore, in the Indian case of Government of A.P. and

Another V. B. Sathyanarayan Rao (dead) by L.R.S.amd others

reported in [2000 (4) S.C.C.262, it was held as follows:

"The rule of per incuriam can be applied where the court omits to

consider a binding precedent of the same court or a Superior Court

rendered on the same issue or where the court omits to consider

any statute while deciding the same issue. "

III

tI

f: t

II

I II f

6

Basnayake J (as he then was) in the case of Alasupillai v. Yavetpillai

[1949 (39) C L W 107 and 108] gave the following definition:

"A decision per incuriam is one given when a case or statute has not

been brought to the attention of the Court and it has given the

decision in ignorance or forgetfulness of the existence of that

case or that statute".

Having set out the manner in which the rule per incuriam is

defined, I shall now proceed to discuss the question of the application of

a decision given per incuriam on the doctrine of stare dicisis. This

doctrine of stare decisis is considered as an indispensable foundation

upon which the law and its application to individual cases are

determined. The effect of a decision given per incuriam on the said

important doctrine is discussed in Halsbury's Laws of England in the

following manner.

"578. The decisions of the Court of Appeal ........................ are binding.

There are, however, three, and only three, exception to this rule;

(1) ....................................................................................... .

(2) ....................................................................................... .

(3) the Court of Appeal is not bound to follow a decision of its

own if given per incuriam. [Industrial Properties Ltd. Associated

Electrical Industries Ltd. 1977 Q B 580J Unlike the House of Lords, the

Court of Appeal does not have liberty to review its own earlier

decisions. "

(Halsbury's Laws of England, 4th Edition Volume 26 Para 578 at

pages 297 and 298)

,,,iII

II,it!,rt

I

l l;

f I ! 1 f If f ,

r I f J I I I

7

In Professor Rupert Cross' Book titled "Precedent in English Law"

[3rd Edition - 1977], at page 150, it is further explained in its concluding

paragraph and it reads thus:

7. CONCLUSION

Summary of exceptions to stare decisis in appellate courts:

It will be convenient to conclude this chapter with a summary of all

the exceptions to stare decisis in appellate courts. Even if such a

court would be bound by a particular decision of its own in the

ordinary way, that decision need not be followed

l.

ll.

iii.

lV. If it was reached per incuriam by the same court

v.

vi.

Vll.

viii. (perhaps) if it conflicts with a previous decision of a higher

court ...

In Ramanathan Chettiar Vs. Wickramarachchi and others,

[reported in 1978 - 1979 (2) SRI L.R.395, at pages 410 and 411] Soza J

with Tambiah J agreeing, sitting in the Court of Appeal observed thus:

'The doctrine of stare decisis is no doubt an indispensable foundation upon

which to decide what is the law and its application to individual cases. It

provides at least some degree of certainty upon which individuals can rely in

the conduct of their affairs as well as a basis for orderly development of legal

rules. Certainty in the law is no doubt very desirable because there is always

the danger of disturbing retrospectively the basis on which contracts,

settlements of property and fiscal arrangements have been entered into.

-

I{

!I-!I

J

,I

;iIIlrt

,

I ! ! II

f

r I

j I

1 • I I I

~ I «

1 I I I I I

t i

8

Further there is also the especial need for certainty as to the criminal law.

While the greatest weight must be given to these considerations, certainty

must not be achieved by perpetuating error or by insulating the law against

the currents of social change. . ........................ However ........ , a

decision given per incuriam by the former Supreme Court is, if I may

say so respectfully, not absolutely binding on the present Court of

Appeal."

By the decision referred to above, the Court of Appeal had declined

to follow the decisions made by the Supreme Court in the cases of

Kurunegala Estae Limited Vs. The District Land Officer [BR/3528/ML

47-S.CA of 1976 decided on 01.04.1977] and Pathiwille Vs. The

Acquiring Officer. [BR/3325/CL/834 - S.C. 1/75 decided on 11.05.1977]

It was so decided on the basis that those decisions had been given per

zncunam.

Accordingly, I will now turn to consider whether or not, the

decision in Kusumawathie Vs. Piyasena (supra) would amount to a

decision given per incuriam and if so, the effect it has on the doctrine of

stare decisis. Learned Counsel for the respondent brought to the notice

of this Court that the Supreme Court has not examined the provisions

contained in the Partition Law No.21 of 1977 as amended by Act No.1 7 of

1997.

!IIflI,

1 I , I e I

~ I l

9

I have perused the judgment m Kusumawathie Vs. Piyasena

carefully and could not find any reference therein to the provisions of

Section 81 of the Partition Law No.21 of 1971 as amended by the Act

No.17 of 1997. In that decision the provisions in the Civil Procedure Code

as well as the Supreme Court Rules had been much elaborated with

reference to Indian authorities.

I will now look at the provIsIons m Partition law on the issue of

non-substitution of legal representatives in place of the deceased parties.

At the outset, it is important to refer to Section 48(1) of the Partition Law

No.21 of 1977 in which final and conclusive nature of Interlocutory and

Final Decrees is set out. In that Section, failure to substitute the legal

representatives in place

--t.1r~ wT1~

~t:t:'iuthH ia} tCF an omission " Partition Law reads thus:

of the deceased parties has been made

or defect in procedure. Section 48(1) in the )'-_-_

48. (1) Save as provided in subsection (5) of this section, the interlocutory

decree entered under section 26 and the final decree of partition entered

under section 36 shall, subject to the decision on any appeal which may

be preferred therefrom, and in the case of an interlocutory decree subject

also to the provisions of subjection (4) of this section, be good and

sufficient evidence of the title of any person as to any right, share of

interest awarded therein to him and be final and conclusive for all

purposes against all persons whomsoever, whatever right, title or interest

they have, or claim to have, to or in the land to which such decree relates

and notwithstanding any omission or defect of procedure or in the proof of

title adduced before the court or the fact that all persons concemed are not

,

i IIf I II ! f

10

parties to the partition action; and the right, share or interest awarded by

any such decree shall be free from all encumbrances whatsoever other

than those specified in that decree.

It is to be noted that omission or defect of procedure includes a

failure to substitute heirs or legal representative of a party who dies

pending the determination of the action or to appoint a person to

represent the estate of the deceased party. Furthermore, sub section (6)

of section 48 stipulates that a right, share or interest awarded in a

partition decree will deemed to be a decree in favour of the

representatives of a party who is dead by the time the decree is entered

even without a substitution being effected in place of a deceased party.

Therefore, it is clear that Section 48 of the Partition Law

No.21 of 1977 as amended by the Act No.17 of 1997 is drafted to

ensure the final and conclusive nature of a decree in a partition

action even if no substitution has been effected to represent a

deceased party in such an action.

It must also be mentioned that by the Partition (Amendment) Act

No. 17 of 1997, a new Section was substituted in place of Section 81 of

the Partition Law No.21 of 1977 whereby a new process had been

introduced for the appointment of legal representatives to represent the

parties in a partition action upon their death. Under Section 81(1) to

Section 81 (8) of the said Act, it has been made mandatory to file a

memorandum by every party to a partition action or any other person,

nominating at least one person [but not exceeding 3] to be his legal

representative in the event of his death pending the determination of the

partition action. The manner in which the parties are added as a party in

such an instance is described in Section 69 of the Partition Law as

amended by the Act No.17 of 1997

IIIfI

I

I t ! t I I

\ f I lII I

, I '

j •

11

More importantly, it is Section 81(9) which is directly relevant on

the question of failure to substitute a legal representative in place of a

deceased party. It is significant that Section 81 (9) starts with the failure

to file a memorandum to nominate a person in terms of Section 8land it

specifically deals with the question of failure to appoint a legal

representative. It reads thus:

"81 (9) Notwithstanding that a party or person has failed to file a

memorandum under the provisions of this" section, and that there

has been no appointment of a legal representative to represent the

estate of such deceased party or person, any judgment or decree

entered in the action or any order made, partition or sale effected

or thing done in the action shall be deemed to be valid and

effective and in conformity with the provisions of the Law and

shall bind the legal heirs and representatives of such deceased

party or person. Such failure to file a memorandum shall also not

be a ground for invalidating the proceedings in such action".

Therefore, with the introduction of new Section 81 by the

Partition (Amendment) Act No.17 of 1977, it is crystal clear that a

judgment shall be deemed to be valid and effective and in

conformity with the provisions of the Law and shall bind the legal

heirs and representatives of such deceased party or person, despite

the non appointment of a legal representative in place of a deceased

party.

In the circumstances, this Court is entitled in law to consider the

said decision in Karunawathie Vs. Piyasena (supra) was given in per

incuriam and accordingly to consider it as an exception to the application

of the doctrine of stare decisis. This is absolutely because the case law

, I I,

I II f t

f It

12

cannot overrule statutory provisions laid down by an enactment of the

Legislature.

In the circumstances, If I may say so respectfully, that the

decision in Kusumawathie Vs. Piyasena is not absolutely binding the

Court of Appeal since there had been failure to consider specific

provisions in the partition law in respect of non-substitution, in the

room of deceased parties in partition actions.

In the light of the above material, I am of the view that failure to

effect substitution in the room of the deceased 8th, 10th, 16th, 19th and

20th defendants by the learned District Judge in this instance would not

make the judgment invalid.

For the aforesaid reasons, I disallow the application to have this

case remitted back to the District Court for re-trial.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

II I,

t

r r