==== BLOCKS ==== 

1 j I

~ I i

~ I 1

1 I ! I I , I I I I I I I I I I I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL

OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

1. L. C. Prasanna Perera Chandana Concrete Works

Industrial Estate 2nd Mile Post, Pas sara Road Badulla

2. P.H. A. Jagath Shantha Wijepala Amtron Marketing Services Industrial Estate

C.A. (Writ) Application No.649/09

C.A. (Writ) Application No.650/09

2nd Mile Post, Pas sara Road Badulla

Petitioners

Vs.

1. University of Uva Wellessa 2nd Mile Post, Pas sara Road Badulla

2. University Grants Commission Ward Place Colombo 7

3. Secretary Ministry of Higher Education

18, Ward Place Colombo 7

4. Secretary Ministry of Industrial Development 570,73/1, Galle Road Colombo 03

5. District Secretary (Badulla) District Secretariat Badulla

Respondents

1

!

IIfIt ,I

I ! ,

\

1 I

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

CHITRASIRI, J.

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J.

L.T.B.DEHIDENIYA J.

N. Mahendra for the Petitioners

F. Jameel, Deputy Solicitor General for the Respondents

01.04.2015

19.05.2015

At the outset, it must be noted that on 13.03.2015, Counsel for all the

parties in both applications bearing Nos. C.A.649/2009 and C.A.650/2009 agreed

to have both cases taken up for argument together. They further agreed to have

one judgment for both the matters since the facts and circumstances in both cases

are identical. Therefore, the parties in the cases bearing Nos. C.A.649/2009 and

C.A.650/2009 are to bind by this judgment and to accept this as the judgment in

both the applications. Accordingly, the Registrar of this Court is directed to file a

copy of this judgment into the dockets of each case mentioned above.

Upon a policy decision been taken by the Government in the month of July

1999, an open invitation had been extended to prospective investors to establish

industries in a location within the District of Badulla. The suggestion was to

commence industries within the available State Land covering an area in extent of

23 acres. It was later known as "KARMANTHAPURAYA". The two petitioners in

2

;i

these two cases also have made applications to have two blocks of land with the

idea of commencing their respective industries on that land. Thereafter, 1st

petitioner was selected to have his industry in lots 630,632 and 635 whilst the 2nd

petitioner was selected to have his industry in lot 639, depicted in Plan bearing

No.80 in the tracing 38 (supplement 42) prepared upon the District Surveys of the

Badulla District. [P3 and P3A annexed to the petition] Documents marked IP2,

2P2, 1P5, 2P5, 1P15, 2P15, 1P16, 2P16 and 1P12 & 2P12 show that the

Government has decided to hand over possession of the respective lands referred to

in those documents on a fifty year lease to the two petitioners. Subsequently, they

commenced their industries on the land that were to be given to them on a fifty

year lease.

However, by Memorandum No.2004/ED/He/45 dated 28.10.2004; Cabinet

has subsequently decided to establish the Uva University of Sri Lanka at a location

that falls within the aforesaid "KARMANTHAPURAYA". Accordingly, by letter dated

01.03.2005, the Secretary, Ministry of Education was empowered to take over

possession of the land where the University was to establish. Lands occupied by

the two petitioners also fell within the land proposed to have the University.

Some of the industrialists who were affected by the said decision of the

Cabinet received compensation and left the premises allocated to them. Indeed, the

two petitioners, on a temporary basis, also were given two different blocks.

Accordingly, they vacated the lands they were occupying earlier and shifted to

i

3

I

1 I

1 I I

1

different locations. The petitioners were given compensation as well for the shifting

of their businesses.

However, the lands so set apart for the use of the petitioners also fell within

the land proposed for the establishment of the University. As such, the

respondents have taken steps to recover possession of those lands from the two

petitioners under the provisions contained in the State Lands (Recovery of

Possession) Act No.7 of 1979. It is the cause for the petitioners to come before this

Court seeking for a mandate in the nature of writs of certiorari, prohibition and

mandamus.

Two petitioners in their petition dated 29.09.2009 sought inter alia for Writs

of Certiorari, Prohibition and Mandamus issued on the respective respondents. In

that application, they moved to have the decisions that were taken to evict the

petitioners from the place they are now in occupation, quashed. Petitioners also

sought to prevent the 1 st, 2nd and 3rd respondents from taking steps under the

State Lands (Recovery of Possession) Act No.7 of 1979 or any other means to eject

the petitioners from their respective allotments. They also have prayed to have a

long term lease for a period of fifty years enabling them to continue with their

possession. The respondents in their objections having stated the reasons as to

why the petitioners should hand over possession of the respective lands to the

University have moved that the two petitions be dismissed.

Petitioners in the two applications were directed to leave the premIses In

dispute by sending them the notices dated 25.08.2009 under and in terms of the

4

, I I 1 I 1

J

provisions contained in the State Lands (Recovery of Possession) Act No.7 of 1979

which were given the marking 1P14 and 2P14. The said notices had been sent in

terms of Section 3 of the aforesaid State Lands (Recovery of Possession) Act,

informing them to hand over possession of the lands referred to in the schedule to

the said notice on or before 30.09.2009 to the Competent Authority namely,

Malinie Peiris, the Secretary, Ministry of Higher Education. However, on

29.09.2009 they have come to this Court seeking to quash the decision referred to

in those two notices and to prevent the respondents proceeding further III

accordance with the prOVISIOns contained in the State Lands (Recovery of

Possession) Act No.7 of 1979.

Learned Counsel for the petitioners submitted that it is unlawful to evict the

petitioners from the premises in dispute since they both have written authority to

be in occupation of that land. Accordingly, they contended that the petitioners are

entitled to be in possession of the lands in question in terms of Section 9( 1) of the

State Lands (Recovery of Possession) Act. Said Section 9( 1) of the Act No.7 of 1979

reads thus:

((9. (1) At such inquiry the person on whom summons under Section 6 has been

served shall not be entitled to contest any of the matters stated in the

application under Section 5 except that such person may establish that

he is in possession or occupation of the land upon a valid permit or

other written authority of the State granted in accordance with any

written law and that such permit or authority is in force and not

revoked or otherwise rendered invalid."

(emphasis added)

5

Admittedly, the lands subjected to in this case belong to the State. Then the

issue is to determine whether the petitioners do possess a valid permit or any other

written authority granted by the State for them to continue with their possession

claiming the cover under the aforesaid Section 9. If they are in a position to do so,

then they cannot be evicted in terms of the aforesaid Act No.7 of 1979. This

position of law had been recognized in many decisions including that of

Arivindakumar v. Alwis and others (2007) 1 SLR 317 and Muhandiram v.

Chairman, No.111 Janatha Estate Development Board (1992) 1 SLR 110.

Accordingly, it is necessary to ascertain whether the petitioners were able to

establish that they have a valid permit or written authority issued by the State to

remain in possession of the lands that they are in occupation. The documents

marked IP2, 2P2, IP5, 2P5, IPI5, 2P15, IPI6, 2P16 and IPI2, 2P12 are the

documents filed, in order to support the position of the petitioners. Those

documents show that the Government has decided to hand over possession of the

lands referred to therein to the two petitioners on a fifty year lease. The first two

letters to that effect are the letters marked IP2 and 2P2 which are dated

08.08.2003. Pursuant to those letters been received, the two petitioners have come

into possession of the respective lands and have commenced their respective

businesses thereon. In the letter marked IP5 dated 30.03.2004, it is stated that a

block land in extent of three roods have been allocated to the 1st petitioner and by

the letter marked 2P5 dated 15.03,2004, another block of land in extent of two

roods have been allocated to the 2nd petitioner. By the letter marked P15, the

6 I

I

Divisional Secretary of Badulla had requested them to furnish more documents to

proceed with the matter. It may have been to obtain the consent of the

Commissioner of Lands for the purpose of executing the leases in favour of the

petitioners. Even the letter dated 06.07.2004 marked P16, show that the

Divisional Secretary has recommended to have lease agreements executed.

Therefore, it is seen that the two petitioners have been in occupation of the

respective lands on the strength of those letters. However, it is important to note

that no formal lease agreements had been entered into by the parties at any stage.

As mentioned hereinbefore, in the latter part of the year 2004, a Cabinet

IMemorandum dated 28.10.2004 had been presented to the Cabinet in order to

establish a university. The suggestion therein was to obtain land in the District of Il Badulla for that purpose. The lands so identified included the lands occupied by I

the two petitioners. The aforesaid Cabinet Memorandums are marked as lRIA &

lR2A and filed with the objections of the respondents. Accordingly, the Cabinet by

the decision dated 02.11.2004 has given approval to establish a new university as

suggested by those two memorandums and the said decision is marked as 1 R2B

filed with the objections of the respondents.

The persons, including the petitioners who were occupying the lands on

which the University was to establish have made representations to the authorities

concerned indicating the difficulties that they were to face in the event a university

is established within the premises that they are in occupation. Accordingly, a

Committee had been set up to look into the grievances of the persons who were in

7

1 I

occupation of the lands. Report submitted by that Committee is marked as IRII

filed with the objections.

In that report, it is stated that the occupants were not having any permits

issued by the Government. Also, it is stated that another Committee have been

appointed to determine the amount of compensation that were to be paid to the

occupants. In that report, it is also stated that some of the Industrialists have

vacated the premises by then while a few of them did not agree to vacate. Those

who did not agree were temporarily re-Iocated within the Uva Wellessa University

premises itself in 2005 at the university expense. The two petitioners fell within

the latter. Accordingly, they have even accepted compensation for re-Iocation.

Then the question is whether the documents marked IP2, 2P2, IP5, 2P5,

IPI5, 2P15, and IPI6, 2PI6 could be construed as written authority issued by the

State in favour of the petitioners to occupy the respective lands despite the change

of the policy of the Government to have a University established on that land.

Learned Counsel for the petitioners in support of his contention has referred to the

decision in the case of Multinational Property Development Ltd. v. Urban

Development Authority. [1996 (2) S.L.R. page 51] In that case, it was held that

though a substantive change in the policy cannot be avoided, such a new policy is

to be complied with, ensuring the individual's right to be heard that they expected

legitimately based on promises made by public bodies. Therefore, the issue in that

case was to ensure the right to be heard when there had been changes in the

policy of the Government. In this instance, no such issue has come up. Indeed,

8

\

\

J

1 J I

~ 1 I

1 I I I

the Government had set up a committee to look into the grievances of the parties

who were affected by the change of the Government policy. Admittedly, the

petitioners have made use of the benefits they obtained from the outcome of the

reports prepared by those committees by having received compensation for

relocation. Therefore, the above decision referred to by the learned Counsel for the

petitioners cannot be applicable to the case at hand since there had not been an

allegation as to violation of natural justice in this instance.

However, in deciding this issue, it is important to consider the conduct of the

petitioners from the time the decision was made to have a new university.

Admittedly, the petitioners have shifted to another location from the place where

they were doing their businesses. In doing so, they have obtained compensation as

well. By looking at the report of the meeting held on 29.09.2009 by the Committee

headed by the Vice Chancellor of Uva Wellessa University which is the document

marked lRll, it is apparent that the petitioners have been re-Iocated only on a

temporary basis until they themselves find alternative accommodation. The

petitioners were fully aware of those circumstances.

All those matters show that the petitioners have always been agreeable to

leave the premises enabling the university to commence its activities. Furthermore,

the fact remains that the authorities have not entered into any formal lease

agreement at any stage. Therefore, it is clear that the petitioners themselves were

under the impression that the documents on which they rely would not help to

constitute it as written authority issued by the State for them to be in possession

of the lands in question. In other words, the conduct of the petitioners and the

9

I 1 I I I

1 1

other circumstances show that the contents of the documents relied upon by the

petitioners do not help petitioners to establish that they possess a valid permit or

written authority issued by the State to be in occupation of the lands in question.

Hence, it is clear that the two petitioners are not in a position to claim the benefit

under Section 9(1) of the State Lands (Recovery of Possession) Act.

It is also necessary to mention that the notices sent under Section 3 of the

State Lands (Recovery of Possession) Act were not in respect of the premises that

had been originally occupied by the two petitioners. By the time this petition was

filed, the two petitioners have shifted from those places where they were occupying

originally to other premises. Therefore, the relief prayed for in the petition as it

stands now, cannot be granted to the petitioners since the lands referred to in the

said notices are different to the lands to which the two petitioners claim that they

have written authority to occupy.

For the aforesaid reasons, I am not inclined to grant the reliefs as prayed for

in the petition. Accordingly, this petition is dismissed without costs.

Application dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

L.T.B.DEHIDENIYA J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

10

i(

\

1