==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

1 I I

,

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA 168/2009

BA Premarathne

Accused-Appellant

Vs The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Complainant Respondent

HC Rathnapura 54/99

Before

Counsel

Argued on Decided on

Sisira J De Abrew J & PWDC J ayathilake J

Indika Mallawaarchchi for the accused appellant. Diliepa Peiris for the Respondent

13.1.2014, 16.1.2014 and 17.1.2014 20.2.2014

Sisira J De Abrew J

The accused appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of a man

named Nandasena and was sentenced to death. Being aggrieved by the said

conviction and the sentence he has appealed to this court. The 2nd and the 3rd

accused were convicted for assisting the accused appellant to conceal the dead

body which is an offence punishable under Section 198 of the Penal Code and

were sentenced to a term of five years rigorous imprisonment CRI) and to pay a fine

of Rs.1 0,0001- carrying a default sentence of one year RI. They did not appeal.

Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as follows.

I 1 , ! , I I j

I I

2

Hemalatha who is the wife of the deceased person Nandasena is the sister

of the wife of the accused appellant. Ten days prior to the incident in this case

Nandasena's family from Horana came to live with the accused appellant. On the

1 st of May 1988 Nandasena got ready to go to Horana in order to get the school

leaving certificate of his son. But there is no evidence to suggest that he went to

Horana. Evidence led at the trial suggests that he had not gone to Horana.

Hemalatha, after preparing his sarong and shirt for the journey, went to a nearby

stream with his sister and children for the purpose of bathing. At the time they left,

the accused appellant and Nandasena were at home. When she came back the

accused appellant who was repairing a radio told her that Nandasena left for

Horana.

The accused appellant in the evenmg of 1.5.1988 went and sought

assistance of Kularathne who lives in the same neighbourhood to clear a block of

land. When Kularathne went to the house of the accused appellant, the dead body

of Nandasena, which was covered with a mat and kept in the back garden, was

shown to him and requested his assistance to remove it. The accused appellant told

him (Kularathne) that he killed Nandasena. When Kularathne refused the request,

he addressed him in the following language: "I will kill you too in the same

manner in which Nandasena was killed." He thereafter assisted the accused

appellant and the 2nd and 3rd accused to remove the body. He saw a blood patch on

the face of the deceased person. He was shown only the face of the dead body. The

four persons carried the dead body to a place which was about six hundred (600)

feet from the house of the accused appellant. The accused appellant requested to

dig a pit but Kularathne refused. At this stage the accused appellant again

threatened him with death. All four of them thereafter dug a pit and buried the dead

body of Nandasena. The accused appellant requested Kularathne not to tell the

story to anybody. Two years and nine months later, when the investigation started

,

I [I

i I 1 f

J

J 1 1 I i

3

the grave was discovered on a statement made by the accused appellant who

pointed out it. The investigating police officer found a skeleton and a piece of a

sarong in the pit. Hemalatha the wife of the deceased person identified this piece of

sarong as a piece of a sarong which was similar to the sarong of her husband. Dr.

Sydney Premathirathne who examined the skeleton expressed the view that

grievous injuries had been caused to the skull. He further expressed the view that

injuries had been caused on any day prior to three months of his examination. Dr.

Sydney Premathirathne was not available to give evidence as his demise had taken

place long prior to the commencement of the trial. Dr. Lalantha who produced the

report prepared by Dr. Sydney Premathirathne expressed the opinion that the

injuries had been caused within two years of the examination. However Dr.

Sydney Premathirathne in the Post Mortem Report had not expressed this opinion.

Therefore it is prudent to accept the opinion expressed by Dr. Sydney

Premathirathne who had said that the injuries had been caused on any day prior to

three months from his examination.

Learned counsel for the accused appellant submitted that evidence given

by Dr. Lalantha cannot be accepted as he had given evidence on a report which

was not signed by Dr. Sydney Premathirathne. It is true that Dr. Sydney

Premathirathne did not sign the report. But it has to be noted here that the day

stamp of the JMO's office had been placed on the report. Further Dr. Lalantha says

that he discovered this report from PMR file maintained in the JMO's office.

Further there is a presumption that judicial and official acts have been regularly

performed. When I consider all these matters, there is no doubt that PI report had

been prepared by Dr. Sydney Premathirathne. For the above reasons I am unable to

agree with the submissions of learned counsel for the accused appellant.

Learned counsel for the accused appellant next contended that the dead

body had not been identified anybody. I now advert to this contention. Kularathne

I

~ I

4

says when he went to the house of the accused appellant the dead body of

Nandasena which had been kept in the back garden of the accused appellant was

covered with a mat and the accused appellant removed the part of the mat and

showed him the face of the dead body. Then he identified that it was Nadasena's

body. There was a patch of blood on the face of the dead body. The accused

appellant admitted to Kularathne that he killed Nandasena. When I consider all

these matters, I hold that the dead body of Nandasena had been identified by

Kularathne. I therefore reject the said contention.

Learned counsel submitted that it was unsafe to allow the conviction to

stand as it was based on the accomplice's evidence which was uncorroborated. I

now advert to this contention. How was the grave of Nand as en a discovered? It was

on a statement made by the accused appellant. Further the accused appellant

pointed out the grave and the Police discovered a skeleton and a piece of a sarong

from the said grave. This piece of sarong which was similar to Nadasena's sarong

was identified by Hemalatha. Kulartahne says that this was the place where the

dead body of Nandasena was buried. He too was present at this place when the

police officer discovered the skeleton. When I consider all these matters, I hold

that Kularathne's evidence was corroborated by the above evidence. Therefore I

am unable to agree with the above contention of learned counsel.

Learned counsel for the accused appellant contended that the evidence of

Kularathne did not satisfy the test of promptness as he made a statement two years

and nine months later. I now advert to this contention. It is true that Kularathne

made a belated statement. He assisted the accused appellant and the 2

nd and 3

rd

accused to bury the dead body of Nandasena. Under these circumstances can one

expect him to make a prompt complaint to the police? The answer is no. Therefore

the fact that his evidence did not satisfy the test of promptness does not weaken his

evidence. If the delay in making a statement to the police has been explained by a

t I I!

I

I ! f

5

witness or can be understood by court, evidence of such witness should not be

rejected by court. I have earlier pointed out that evidence Kularathne had been

corroborated. For the above reasons I hold that the learned trial Judge was right

when he decided to accept the evidence of Kularathne. Therefore I am unable to

agree with the above submission of learned counsel for the accused appellant.

One year after the disappearance of Nandasena, the accused appellant after

an exchange of words with Hemalatha over a monetary transaction, told her

(Hemalatha) to bring a mammoty to show the dead body of Nandasena. Hemalatha

says that she, thereafter, lodged a complaint in the police station. But the

investigating police officer does not confirm such a statement being made

Hemalatha. Therefore it is difficult to rely on the said item of evidence.

The accused appellant, in his dock statement, denied the incident.

The learned trial judge when analyzing the dock statement stated that the

dock statement was not tested by cross-examination and that a statement could be

considered as evidence only if it was considered by cross-examination. This is a

misdirection committed by the learned trial judge. Judges when evaluating a dock

statement should bear in mind the following principles.

1. Dock statement must be considered as evidence subject to the infirmities that

it is not a sworn statement and not tested by cross-examination.

2. If dock statement is believed it must be accepted upon.

3. If dock statement creates a reasonable doubt in the prosecution case, defence

of the accused must succeed.

4. Dock statement of one accused must not be used against the other accused.

The above view was expressed in the case of Kularathne Vs Queen 71 NLR 529.

Similar view was expressed in Buddarakkitha Vs Queen 63 NLR 433

When I consider the evidence led at the trial, I hold that the prosecution has

proved its case beyond reasonable doubt and that above misdirection has not

I

6

caused any miscarriage of justice to the accused. When I consider all these matters,

I intend to apply the proviso to Section 334 of the Criminal Procedure Code which

reads as follows: "Provided that the court may, notwithstanding that it is of opinion

that the point raised in the appeal might be decided in favour of the appellant,

dismiss the appeal if it considers that no substantial miscarriage of justice has

actually occurred."

F or the above reasons, I affirm the conviction and the death sentence and

dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

PWDC Jayathilake J

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

I I I ,