==== BLOCKS ==== 

Page 1 of 14

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

C.A. 141/98 F C.A. 141A/98 F C.A. 141B/98 F C.A. 141C/98 F D.C. Mount-Lavinia 57 /94/P

7. Jamburegoda Gamachchige Siripala, 32, Madiwela, Kotte

8. Labugamage Somalatha Perera, 324, Thalapathpitiya Road, Madiwela, Kotte

11. Suraweera Arachchige Dona Idinona, 16/10, Praja Road, Madiwela, Kotte

Defendant-ppellants In 141/98 F

9. Upul Pranawithana,

145, Rampart Road, Eth ulkotte, Kotte

Defendant-ppellants In 141A/98 F

10. Mangala Seneratna, No 16/10, Praja Road, Madiwela, Kotte

Defendant-ppellants In 141B/98 F

13. Wilarachchige Dumita Malani Fernando, 20/2, Praja Road, Madiwela, Kotte

Defendant-ppellants In 141C/98 F

Vs

1. W elikadage Amarawathie Boteju, 95, Kotte

Madiwela,

2. Mala wattage Jinasena Pieris, 18/12, Obahena Road, Kotte.

Madiwela,

3. Niranjan Ekanayaka Kalupahana,

126, Stanley Thilakaratna Mawatha, Nugegoda Plaintiff-Respondents in C.A. 141/98 F, C.A. 141A/98 F, C.A. 141Bf98 F, C.A. 141Cf98 F and others

I I

Page 3 of 14

BEFORE: A W A SALAM, J

COUNSEL: Ranjan Suwandaratna for the 1Oth

defendant-appellant, C Premathilaka for the 9th

defendant-appellant, Rohan Sahabandu for 7th 8th

and 11th defendant-appellants and S N Tirimanne

for the plaintiff-respondents.

ARGUED ON: 10.09.2012.

Written submissions tendered on: 26.11.2012

DECIDED ON: 20.02.2013

A.W.A. Salam, J.

These appeals have been preferred against the judgment

dated 8 December 1997, delivered in a partition action. The

appeals have been sought by the 7, 8 and 11 defendant-

appellants, 10 defendant-appellant, 13 defendant-appellant

and 9 defendant-appellant. This judgement relates to all

such appeals, as they were consolidated and argued

together and agreed to be decided simultaneously by one

single judgment. Besides, the argument advanced by the

appellants' in all the appeals centres round one single

issue. That is whether the corpus had been originally

possessed by one person as claimed by the appellants or

whether it was co-owned from the beginning as urged by

the plaintiffs.

Turning to the sequence of events that occurred prior to the

appeals, the three plaintiffs brought a partition action

against 1st to 6th defendants by plaint dated 11.03.1994

seeking to partition the land called Kongahawatta alias

Ketakelagahawatta in extent of 02 roods and 37.6 perches

depicted at one point of time, by Plan No. 873 made by

Henry J Silva Licensed Surveyor dated 10.06. 1934. The

said plan was merely referred to in the plaint and certain

deeds but not produced at the trial.

The plaintiffs by their plaint sought the corpus to be

partitioned among them in the proportion of 1 I 6 share

each aggregating to 1 I 2 share and the balance 1 I 2 share to

the six defendants in the 1 I 12 share each aggregating to

another 112 share.

The plaintiffs traced the ownership of the subject matter to

two persons by the names ( 1) Labugamage Carlina Perera

and (2) Labugamage Pubilis Perera in equal shares.

According to the plaintiffs' the rights of Labugamage

Carlina Perera had finally devolved on the plaintiffs on a

chain of title set out in the plaint and the undivided rights

of Labugamage Pubilis Perera on the 1st to 6th defendants.

7th - 14th Defendants filed statements of claim seeking the

dismissal of the partition action. Somewhat persistently,

they maintained that Labugamage Pubilis Perera, (referred

to by the plaintiffs as the original owner of an undivided

one half share of the corpus) from the year 1934 was in

exclusive possession of Lot 5 in Plan No. 873 made by

Henry J Silva Licensed Surveyor dated 10.06.1934 in lieu

of his 8140 share.

I

Page 5 of 14

The land depicted in plan No. 873 is the same as the land

described in the schedule to the plaint and almost identical

to the land depicted in the preliminary plan. The basis on

which the 7th to 14th defendants sought the dismissal of the

partition action was that upon the death of the said Pubilis

Perera, his six children (0 1st to 06th Defendants) amicably

divided the corpus among themselves in terms of plan

No. 1492 made by C. C. Wickramasingha, Licensed

Surveyor dated 05.11.1973 (produced at the trial marked

as 7 !3 1). On the footing of the said plan 7 !3 1 Lot 5 in Plan

No. 873 had been sub-divided into six allotments of land as

Lots E1 to E6. The six children of Pubilis Perera have

placed their signatures on the reverse of 7 !3 1 purportedly

demonstrating their intention to put an end to the

co-ownership of the corpus although there was no

contemporaneous formal deed of partition executed.

However, a belated attempt has been made by the 1st to 6th

defendants virtually 6 years after the preparation of the

partition plan, to give formal recognition to the amicable

partition when they subscribed to an amicable deed of

partition bearing No. 4872 (marked 7 !3 2 ) attested by D.C.

Senarathna, Notary Public on 02.08.1979. By virtue of the

said amicable partition, the contesting defendants

maintained that the 01 st to 06th defendants became entitled

to the defined and divided lots E4, (01st), E3, E6, El, E5,

and E2 respectively. Consequent to the 1st to 6th defendant

having become entitled to the several distinct allotments of

land referred to above, the 07th to 14th Defendants claimed

that by virtue of transfer deeds effected by 1st to 6th

defendants the 7th defendant became entitled to Lot E4, 8th

defendant to lot E3, 9th defendant to lot E6, 10th defendant

to El, 11th defendant to lot ES and 12th and 14th defendants

to lot E2. There is no dispute that Lots E4, E3, E6, El, ES

and E2 referred to above are identical to Lots 3, 5,7,1,6 and

2 respectively depicted in the preliminary plan No. 699. The

deeds by which the 07th to 14th Defendants had derived title

had been executed from time to time commencing from

1979 to 1989. The partition action has been instituted on

11.03.1994 roughly five years after the last deed had been

executed by one of the children of Pubilis Perera.

The trial commenced on 28.01.1997 with the recording of

an important admission whereby the parties conceded that

the corpus constitutes of lots 1 to 7 depicted in the

preliminary plan No 699 marked as X. The investigation of

title began with the learned district judge identifying the

points of contest as follows.

1. Were Labugamge Carlina Perera and Labugamage

Pubilis Perera the original owners of the corpus?

2. Did the rights of the original owners devolve on

the parties as stated in the plaint?

(The above points of contest were suggested by the

plaintiffs)

3. Was Pubilis Perera the original owner of the

...

I

Page 7 of 14

corpus?

4. Are the contesting defendants entitled to his

rights as pleaded in the statement of claim?

5. Are the parties entitled to prescriptive rights

claimed in their respective statements of claim?

6. If the plaintiffs are not entitled to any rights from

the corpus, should the action be dismissed?

(Points of contest No's 3 to 6 were suggested by the

contesting defendants)

As far as the examination of the title is concerned, it is of

paramount importance to understand the basic factual

issue arising on the devolution of title. According to the

plaintiffs there were two original owners of the subject

matter of the action. Conversely, the contesting defendants

maintained that there was only one original owner. In the

judgement the learned district judge answered the first two

points of contest raised at the instance of the Plaintiffs' in

the affirmative holding that there were two original owners

of the subject matter. Arising from the answer given to the

first point of contest, the learned district judge quite rightly

answered point of contest No 3 in the negative, rejecting the

position that the corpus was originally owned by one

person. As regards the entitlement of the contesting

defendants, the learned district judge held that Pubilis

Perera had only an undivided one half share in the land

·and therefore the contesting defendants are only entitled to

that share of Pubilis Perera. As a result the District Judge

allotted 4/24th share each to the Plaintiffs, 2/24th share

each to the 4th, 7th, 8th , 9th and 12th & 13th Defendants and

1/ 24th share each to 11th & 14th Defendants. The

improvements of the lots which were claimed by the 7th to

14th Defendants had been allotted to them.

The learned trial judge in his judgment, at the outset, had

attempted to ascertain as to whether the corpus was in the

joint-ownership of Labugamage Karlina Perera &

Labugamage Pubilis Perera or only Labugamage Pubilis

Perera. According to the 0 1st Plaintiff Labugamage Karlina

Perera is her grandmother & Labugamage Pubilis Perera is

a brother of her grandmother. In other words Labugamage

Karlina Perera and Labugamage Pubilis Perera are siblings.

The trial judge has considered Deed No. 3689 dated

06.11.1949 produced as PI, by which the father of the 1st

Plaintiffs (Davith Boteju) has transferred undivided rights

from and out of Lot E in Plan No. 877 dated 10.06.1934 to

Ruban Perera. On the death of Ruban Perera, the learned

district judge has the conclusion that his undivided rights

from and out of the corpus had devolved on the 0 1st

Plaintiff under and by virtue of his last will which is said to

have been proved in the district court of Colombo and

thereafter she has executed an executor's conveyance No.

1175 dated 20.10.1960 (P2) in her favour. The failure of the

plaintiffs have used the last of Ruban Perera was pointed

Page 9 of 14

·out by the contesting defendants as a serious lapse in the

presentation of plaintiffs case. However, the district judge

concluded that he had no reason to disbelieve PI and that if

PI is true then Karlina Perera was entitled to half share of

the corpus.

It is true that the plaintiffs have failed to produce the last

will, probate or inventory in the testamentary case of

Ruban Perera in case no. 18954/T. However, they produced

the Executrix Conveyance no. 1775 dated 20.10.1960

attested by J. Wilson Notary Public of Colombo as "P2"

along with the relevant land registry extracts.

The learned counsel for the plaintiffs has submitted that in

addition to the production of the oldest deed (P 1) the

plaintiffs have adduced the Executrix Conveyance which

indicates the conclusion of a testamentary action. Hence, it

is admitted on behalf of the plaintiffs in light of the

evidence produced, the probate or the other documents as

stated by the Appellants are not necessary as there is a

valid Executrix Conveyance registered in the folio which

itself is evidence that the Testamentary case has been

concluded.

It is settled law that immediately upon the demise of any

person, his properties, both movables and immovables

devolve on the legal heirs according to the law of

inheritance governing the deceased or according to his last

will. The question that arises here is whether the executrix

i

. i

I l I j

_)

·conveyance can be relied upon as proof of the fact that

Ruban Perera left a last will in favour of the 1st plaintiff .

The 1st plaintiff in her evidence has categorically stated

that her husband died leaving a last will in her favour and

that it was proved 1n the relevant Testamentary

proceedings. Upon being asked as to whether she is able to

produce the last will, the 1st plaintiff stated that she is

unable to trace the last will and case record pertaining to

the testamentary proceedings has gone missing. As a

matter of fact, the 1st plaintiff in her testimony explained

the circumstances that resulted in her inability to produce

the last will. In any event the contents of the document the

executrix conveyance (P2) have not been challenged by the

defendants. So much so, the assertion of the 1st plaintiff

that the husband died leaving a last will in her favour

bequeathing an undivided 1 /2 of the corpus and the said

last will having been duly admitted to probate in the district

court of Colombo had been neither denied by the contesting

defendants nor did they cross examine the 1st plaintiff on

that matter.

Quite significantly, none of the contesting defendants had

chosen to impeach the genuineness of P2. The document

marked as P2 had been produced without any objection.

Wimalawathie V s Hemawathie 2009 SLR - Volume 1-

page 95, it was held that the finding in relation to the want

of proof of the documents produced, blatantly contravenes

Section 68 of the Partition Law, which provides that it shall

not be necessary in any proceedings under that law to

• Page 11 of 14

· adduce formal proof of the execution of any deed which on

the face of it, purports to have been duly executed unless

the genuineness of that deed is impeached by a party

claiming adversely to the party producing the deed or

unless the Court requires such proof.

In the instant case not only the genuineness of P2 had not

been impeached by the contesting defendants but the

contents of P2 also had not been questioned. Further, as

has been adversely commented by the learned district judge

the legal heirs of Pubilis perera (1 to 6 defendants) had not

come forward to give evidence to warrant and defend the

title of 7 to 14 defendants. It is also interesting to note that

no steps have been taken by 7 to 14 defendants to call

them or any one of them as witnesses. In the

circumstances, it is my considered view that he learned

district judge cannot be faulted for drawing an adverse

inference resulting from the failure on the part of 1 to 6

defendants to give evidence or the failure on the part of the

7 to 14 defendants to call them as witnesses.

Undoubtedly, the learned district judge has had the

priceless advantage of seeing the witnesses and the manner

in which they testified. He has expressed a firm opinion as

to the credibility of the witnesses. As such, this court

should not lightly interfere or defer from the findings of the

learned district judge based upon the oral testimony given

before him and the documents produced at the trial.

•

·The plaintiff has clearly proved his title to the subject

matter and the defendants' claim for prescriptive title had

been comparatively weak and unsatisfactory. By reason of

the fact that the learned district judge had come to the

finding that the corpus was originruly owned by two people,

it is incumbent upon 1 to 6 defendants to prove ouster by

an overt act, so as to prescribe to the entire corpus against

the other co-owners. The contesting defendants have not

even suggested a point of contest as to their distinct mode

of prescription to the entirety of the corpus against the

other co-owners.

Several important principles touching upon the Law of

prescription have been succinctly laid down in the

celebrated judgment of Corea Vs Iseris Appuhamy 15 NLR

65 in which it was categorically laid down that where a

person enters into possession of land in one capacity, he is

presumed to continue in possession in that same capacity.

The head note of that judgment reads as follows ....

"A co-owner's possession is in law the possession

of his co-owners. It is not possible for him to put

an end to that possession by any secret intention

in his mind. Nothing short of ouster or something

equivalent to ouster could bring about that

result".

In the case ofThilakaratna Vs Bastian 21 NLR 12 it was

held inter alia that where possession of immovable property

" . Page 13 of 14

·originally is not adverse, and in the event of a claim that it

had later become adverse, the onus is on him who asserts

adverse possession to prove it. Then proof should be offered

not only of an intention on his part to possess adversely,

but a manifestation of that intention to the true owner

against whom he sets up his possession.

Quite remarkably, no cogent evidence had been led at the

trial pointing to the possession of the legal heirs Pubilis

Perera or the 7th to 14 the defendants as being adverse. In

the absence of proof emanating from ouster by an overt act

the 1st to 14th defendants should necessarily be presumed

to have continued as co-owners.

In the circumstances, the learned district judge had no

alternative but to enter judgment to partition the land on

the basis that it was originally co-owned as urged by the

plaintiffs'. In order to come to this conclusion he has

examined the deeds produced by the plaintiffs and the

manner in which the plaintiffs' predecessors have dealt

with the property.

Having examined the reasoning adopted by the learned

district judge on the finding as to the original ownership of

the corpus, I am not inclined to subscribe to the view that

the said finding and the reasons adopted are inconsistent

with the evidence (both oral and documentary). Hence, no

intervention of the appellate court is warranted in respect

of the said finding.

.,•

Appeals dismissed subject to the agreement reached to the

effect that the benefits accrue to the 4th defendant by virtue

of the judgement and interlocutory decree should be

deemed as benefits that had accrued to the lOth defendant-

appellant.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Kwk/-