==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for Writ of

Certiorari and Mandamus under and in terms

of Article 140 & 141 of the Constitution of the

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

Anthonimuthu David Egwin,

No. 395, / 47A, Joseph Vaz Lane,

Rambaikulam,

Vavuniya.

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. Road Development Authority,

“Maganeguma Mahamedura”,

No. 216, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,

Koswatte, Battaramulle.

2. C. P. Athuluwage,

Chairman,

Road Development Authority,

No. 216, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,

Koswatte, Battaramulle.

3. L. V. S. Weerakon,

Director General,

Road Development Authority,

No. 216, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,

Koswatte, Battaramulle.

Court Of Appeal Writ Application No: CA (WRIT) 442/2023

2

4. Mrs. B. Sandamali,

Director Internal Audit,

Road Development Authority,

No. 216, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,

Koswatte, Battaramulle.

5. Keerthi Damboragama,

Former Internal Auditor,

Road Development Authority,

No. 216, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,

Koswatte, Battaramulle.

6. Ranjith Premasiri,

Former Secretary,

Ministry of Highways and Transport,

No. 216, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,

Koswatte, Battaramulle.

7. M. M. P. K. Mayadunna

Secretary, Ministry of Highways and Transport,

No. 216, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,

Koswatte, Battaramulle.

8. N. Sooriyakumar,

Director Administration,

Road Development Authority,

No. 216, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,

Koswatte, Battaramulle.

9. Gunasekeram Joyce Delphin Cross,

Provincial Director,

Northern Province,

Road Development Authority,

Kandy Road, Vavuniya.

3

10. Chandrasoma Perera,

Preliminary Inquiry Officer,

Road Development Authority,

No. 216, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,

Koswatte, Battaramulle.

11. H. L. Tissera,

Disciplinary Inquiry Officer / Sole Person

Tribunal,

No. 110 / 19, 16th Lane,

Wickramasinghepura,

Battaramulla.

12. Kirupakaran Nirthika,

Clerk,

Executive Engineer’s Office,

Road Development Authority,

Thalaimannar Road, Mannar and also of

No. 17, Kathiresu Road,

Vavuniya.

13. Nagamany Kirupakaran,

No. 17, Kathiresu Road, Vavuniya.

14. S. M. N. Samanlatha,

Management Assistant, Provincial Director

Office,

Northern Province,

Road Development Authority,

Kandy Road, Vavuniya.

15. Ramu Kanakaraj,

Office Assistant, Chief Engineer’s Office,

Road Development Authority,

4

Kandy Road, Vavuniya.

16. Premakumaran Robin Gerard,

Management Assistant,

Executive Engineer’s Office of Mullaitivu,

Road Development Authority,

Mankulam.

17. S. Neelamehan,

Clerk,

Executive Engineer’s Office of Vavuniya,

Road Development Authority,

Kandy Road, Vavuniya.

18. Rajendran Dishanthan,

Management Assistant, Provincial Director

Office,

Northern Province,

Road Development Authority Office,

Kandy Road, Vavuniya.

19. Sokkalingam Kulenthiran,

Office Assistant, Provincial Director’s Office,

Road Development Authority,

Kandy Road, Vavuniya.

20. Shanmukanathan Vinothan,

Management Assistant,

Provincial Director’s Office,

Road Development Authority,

Kandy Road, Vavuniya.

21. A. L. A. Hubail,

Office of the Director Administration,

5

Road Development Authority,

No. 216, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,

Koswatte, Battaramulle.

RESPONDENTS

Before : Hon. Rohantha Abeysuriya PC, J.(P/CA)

: Hon. K. Priyantha Fernando, J.(CA)

Counsel : K. Raveendran, AAL for the Petitioner.

Dilantha Sampath, SC for the Respondents.

Written Submissions on : 30.03.2026 for the Petitioner.

26.05.2026 for the 1st – 5th, 8th & 9th Respondents

Supported on : 10.02.2026

Decided on : 17.07.2026

K. Priyantha Fernando, J. (CA)

1. The Petitioner invoked the jurisdiction of this Court under and in terms Article 140 of the

Constitution seeking inter alia for Writs of Certiorari to quash the defective charge sheet, the

arbitrary findings of the 11th Respondent, and the disciplinary decisions and punishments

enforced by the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd Respondents.

6

POSITION OF THE PETITIONER:

2. The Petitioner contended that he has been a duly appointed employee of the 1st Respondent, the

Road Development Authority, having joined as a Clerk Grade IV in 2007 and subsequently

earning promotions up to Grade I. The Petitioner stated that the genesis of the dispute arose

when the 5th Respondent, acting as the Director of Internal Auditing, conducted an internal

inquiry into allegations of office misbehavior and harassment leveled by the 12th Respondent.

3. The Petitioner argued that he was expressly discharged from these allegations after the 5th

Respondent concluded there was no evidence of harassment. To further substantiate this, the

Petitioner highlighted that the 12th Respondent herself provided a statement to the Vavuniya

Police explicitly affirming that neither she nor any other female officers had ever been

subjected to sexual or other forms of harassment at the workplace.

4. The Petitioner submitted that, despite this exoneration, the 3rd Respondent (Deputy Vice

Chancellor) improperly appointed the 10th Respondent (Dean of the Faculty of Medicine) to

conduct a second preliminary investigation into the same allegations.

5. The Petitioner argued that this inquiry was fundamentally flawed and contravened Clauses 5.2

and 13.3 of the Establishment Code, as the 10th Respondent had never been employed by the

Road Development Authority or any authorized institution. Furthermore, the Petitioner

contended that the subsequent charge sheet issued against him, detailing four charges of serious

misconduct, causing mental pressure to the 12th Respondent, disturbing her duties, creating

staff conflict, and breaching organizational trust was vague and legally defective. The

Petitioner further averred that his bonuses were unlawfully withheld prior to the issuance of

this charge sheet, which constitutes a direct violation of Section 14.12 of the Establishment

Code.

6. The Petitioner argued that during the formal inquiry conducted by the 11th Respondent, a

complete absence of evidentiary support for the charges was exposed. The Petitioner pointed

out that every staff witness called, testified that they had never seen or heard of the Petitioner

engaging in any misconduct or misbehavior toward the 12th Respondent. Most notably, the

Petitioner stated that witness Robin Jerad stated that the 12th Respondent had actively requested

him to falsely claim he had witnessed the Petitioner misbehaving.

7

7. Additionally, the Petitioner highlighted that the 12th Respondent's husband, who had no

firsthand knowledge of the workplace dynamics, admitted during cross-examination that his

wife never sought medical attention or consulted a doctor for the alleged "mental pressure”.

Thus, the Petitioner contended that the 11th Respondent's ultimate decision to find him guilty

of the first and fourth charges was arbitrary, mala fide, and wholly unsubstantiated by the

evidence presented.

8. It was argued that the 11th Respondent improperly formulated the first charge based solely on

the complainant's testimony rather than the original charge sheet, while paradoxically admitting

in his findings that the complainant's working capacity and performance were never actually

impaired. Furthermore, the Petitioner stated that the 11th Respondent baselessly speculated that

the witnesses who testified favorably for the Petitioner had been forced to do so, using this

unfounded assumption to disregard their exculpatory evidence entirely. The Petitioner also

submitted that finding him guilty of the fourth charge (breach of trust) solely because it was

linked to the unsupported first charge was legally unsustainable.

9. Finally, the Petitioner submitted that the Respondents acted in a mala fide and arbitrary manner

by deliberately withholding the inquiry officer's findings, forcing the Petitioner to appeal to the

Right to Information Commission before the documents were finally released in November

2023. As a result of these baseless findings, the Petitioner argued he was subjected to unjust

and punitive disciplinary actions, including an unwarranted punitive transfer from Vavuniya

to Kilinochchi, the suspension of his 2021 annual increment for one year, a five-year ban on

sitting for promotional exams or interviews, and the withholding of bonus payments.

POSITION OF THE RESPONDENTS:

10. The Respondents argued that the allegations faced by the Petitioner were corroborated by

statements from the 12th Respondent's husband and her colleagues, whom she had informed

about the harassment. Consequently, it is the Respondents position that a charge sheet was

lawfully issued against the Petitioner, outlining the four charges of committing serious

misconduct by causing mental pressure, causing disturbances to duties, making conflict among

staff, and breaching organizational trust. During the formal disciplinary inquiry, it was noted

8

that the 12th Respondent clarified she avoided making a police complaint simply to prevent

disrespect to her husband’s family. The Respondents emphasized that while the Petitioner

pleaded not guilty, he completely refrained from giving evidence or calling any witnesses on

his behalf.

11. The Respondents contended that it was only after following an analysis of the evidence, that

the Formal Inquiry Officer rightfully concluded that the Petitioner had committed 'verbal

sexual harassment' resulting in 'mental pressure', finding him guilty of the first and fourth

charges. Based on these findings, the Respondents stated that the 3rd Respondent issued a valid

disciplinary order. As such, the Respondents argued that the entire procedure, from the

preliminary inquiry to the formal disciplinary inquiry and final order was meticulously

followed. It is the contention of the Respondents that there was no procedural irregularity,

impropriety, irrationality, or illegality in the steps adopted to discipline the Petitioner.

12. In support of the arguments, the Respondents contended that the Petitioner's writ application is

a mechanism for judicial review, not an appeal and cited the judgment delivered in

CA/WRT/0380/2020 decided on 05.09.2023 (R.D Aluthgamage Vs. Retired Justice N.E

Dissanayaka), in which it was held that judicial review focuses strictly on procedural

impropriety and illegality, rather than re-evaluating the evidence or the substantive correctness

of the conclusion.

13. The Respondents also argued, citing the judgment delivered in the case of SC/Appeal/60/2018

decided on 05.05.2022 (Brandix Apparel Solutions Limited v. Fernando), that employers have

an absolute duty to provide a safe, harassment-free environment to maintain employee morale

and productivity. In reinforcement of the said arguments, the Respondents contended that under

Article 14(1)(g) of the Sri Lankan Constitution and international obligations such as the

CEDAW, (as highlighted in SC/FR/81/2021 decided on 05.08.2026 [Dr. W.A.M Udari L.

Abeysinghe Vs. Prof. W.M Thilakarathne]) a citizen's fundamental right to occupation is

dependent on a workplace free from gender specific violence and discrimination.

14. In order to examine whether any clause of the Establishment Code is violated by the

Respondents, it is necessary to analyse the said provisions. I reproduce the applicable clauses

as follows:

9

“ESTABLISHMENTS CODE SECTION 14

14. Issuing a Charge Sheet to an Accused Officer

14:1 The charge need not take a legalistic form. However, it should be a clear and

simple statement or statements of any acts of misconduct or lapses committed or

believed to have been committed by the accused officer that call for a formal

disciplinary inquiry against him.

14:2 The charge sheet should essentially contain the following recitals:

14:2:1 Under which Chapter, Section or Sections of this Code the Charge Sheet

against the officer is issued.

14:2:2 Under which schedule of this Code do the charges preferred fall.

14:2:3 The time limit allowed for the accused officer to submit his answers to the

Charge Sheet.

14:2:4 To whom should the answers to the Charge Sheet be submitted.

14:2:5 The Charges preferred.

14:2:6 The names, posts and present places of work of witnesses who are expected

to be summoned for the formal disciplinary inquiry to substantiate the charges.

14:2:7 Statements of witnesses and documents that would be used to substantiate

the charges at the formal disciplinary inquiry.

14:2:8 In whose custody are the documents that constitute evidence, and how and

where they could be examined by the accused officer himself or with his

representative.

14:2:9 That the accused officer has the right to appoint an officer to represent him.

14:2:10 Action that would be taken if answers to the Charge Sheet are not received

within the stipulated period.

10

14:3 Whenever a charge sheet is issued against an accused officer by a Disciplinary

Authority or by any other Authority duly authorized by the former, it should be in

the form as given in the specimen in Appendix 5 or 6, as the case may be.

14:4 A Disciplinary Authority may amend a charge sheet at any time between its

hand-over to the accused officer and the commencement of the formal disciplinary

inquiry.

14:5 Whenever a charge sheet is amended in terms of sub-section 14:4 above, the

Disciplinary Authority should give sufficient time to the accused officer to submit

his explanations to the amended charge sheet or to examine the documents.

14:6 Where an officer presenting the case for the prosecution considers in the

course of a disciplinary inquiry, but before leading evidence for the prosecution is

over, that the charge sheet should be amended, and where such amendments relate

to the charges preferred, he should forward the proposed amendments in writing to

the appropriate Disciplinary Authority. In such an instance, the Tribunal should

adjourn the inquiry until such amendments are approved or not approved by the

Disciplinary Authority. It will be the responsibility of the Disciplinary Authority to

make available his decision expeditiously to enable the inquiry to be held

continuously.

14:7 The number of occasions that a charge sheet could be amended in terms of

sub-section 14:6 above is limited to two.

14:8 When the officer presenting the case for the prosecution makes a request, after

the commencement of the disciplinary inquiry, to amend the list of documents or the

list of names of witnesses mentioned in the charge sheet, the Tribunal may take a

decision on such request as is necessary. The number of occasions that a list of

documents or list of witnesses could be so amended is limited to two.

14:9 It will be the responsibility of the Disciplinary Authority or any other officer

mentioned in the charge sheet as the officer in whose charge the documents are kept

to provide the opportunity to the accused officer or to the officer duly appointed to

represent him to examine statements and documents in so far as they relate to the

documentary evidence mentioned in the charge sheet against the officer.

11

14:10 It will be the responsibility of the officer in charge of the documents to ensure

their absolute security during such examination as referred to in sub-section 14:9

above.

14:11 On the request made by the accused officer or the officer appearing for him,

photocopies of relevant statements and documents may, at the discretion of the

officer in charge of the documents, be made available. Action should be taken to

recover a specified fee for the State when making available such photocopies.

14:12 When a formal charge sheet has been issued against an officer for

disciplinary action against him, granting him salary increments, promotions,

foreign trips and scholarship, study leave with pay, loans and advances, no-pay

leave locally and abroad and secondments should forth-with be suspended until

the final outcome of the inquiry. (Amendment to Sub Section 14:12 PA Circular

30/2019)

14:13 If it becomes necessary for an accused officer to proceed abroad to get

treatment for an illness on the recommendation of a Medical specialist permission

should be obtained from the Disciplinary Authority.”

15. Although it was contended by the Petitioner that suspending of bonuses is a violation of the

clause 14.12 of the Establishment Code, it is clearly provided in the said clause that such

benefits can be suspended until the final determination of the inquiry.

16. In the instant case, it is revealed that the Petitioner who is a Grade 1 Clerk attached to the

Provincial Director’s Office of RDA at Vavuniya has been subjected to a preliminary inquiry

upon a complaint by the 12th Respondent, one Neerthika, a colleague of the Petitioner of the

same work place in respect of sexual harassment. It has been referred to the 2nd Respondent -

Chairman of the RDA by the 12th respondent on 12.06.2012.

17. It is important to note that the 12th Respondent in her statement dated 17.10.2020 (vide at pages

1-5 of P24) has explained in detail the manner in which the Petitioner abused her verbally at

the work place. The statement of her husband (vide at pages 7-9 of P24) corroborates the stance

of the 12th Respondent. Further, two colleagues of the 12th Respondent namely Robin Gerad

12

and Ramu Kanagarajah have also affirmed her statement. In the circumstances, the Petitioner

was served with the charge sheet dated 18.03.2021 (P16).

18. It is revealed in the proceedings of the Formal Inquiry dated 23.02.2023 (vide P28) that the

12th Respondent while denying the suggestion made on behalf of the Petitioner that the incident

was false/fabricated, clarified that she refrained from making a formal complaint to any law

enforcement authority as such act would bring disrespect to her husband’s family. Considering

the strict Hindu culture which she is subjected to, it is not surprising and quite plausible the

way 12th Respondent has acted. Thus, the credibility of her complaint against the Petitioner is

strengthened.

19. It is revealed to this Court that at all times material to the issuance of the disciplinary order, the

proper procedure has been followed and that there is no procedural irregularity, impropriety or

illegality in the procedure adopted.

20. This Court also take cognizance of the following judgments delivered by the Apex Court of

the Country:

(i) Manohari Pelaketiya v. H.M. Gunasekera, Secretary, Ministry of Education and

Others [SC/FR/76/2012, S.C. minutes 28.09.2016] – The impact of continuous mental

abuse has been emphasized by His Lordship Justice Anil Gooneratne as follows:

“I observe that continuous abuse and sexual harassment over a period of time would

cause physical and mental damage to any human being. It is not possible for a female

to resist such abuses unless she is a strong personality who could react and retort to

such abuses and harassment and make the abuser to shamelessly withdraw, being

exposed to the public at large of his indecency. Continuous threats and abuses could

also make a person unwell both physically and mentally. My views expressed on the

aspect of abuses would be endorsed by any law-abiding citizen and it should be so”

(ii) Brandix Apparel Solutions Limited v. Fernando [SC/Appeal/60/2018, S.C. minutes

05.05.2022] His Lordship Justice Janak De Silva held that:

13

“It should be noted that it is the duty of an employer to provide a safe and supportive

work environment for its employees. The productivity of the employee and the company

will not increase unless such an environment exists. Sexual harassment in any form

should be dealt with severely because it will otherwise pollute the working

environment and affect employee morale” (the emphasis was added)

(iii) In a most recent judgment of Dr. W.A.M. Udari L. Abeysinghe vs. Professor W.M.

Thilakaratne and Others [SC/FR/81/2021 S.C. minutes 08.05.2026] - His Lordship

Justice Janak de Silva observed that:

“It is important to observe that Article 11(1) of the Convention on the Elimination of

All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW), which Sri Lanka has signed

and ratified without any reservation, requires State Parties to take all appropriate

measures to eliminate discrimination against women in the field of employment in order

to ensure, on basis of equality of men and women, the same rights including the right

to protection of health and to safety in working conditions, including the safeguarding

of the function of reproduction.

The CEDAW General Recommendations No. 19: Violence against Women, in its

recommendation on April 11, states that equality in employment can be seriously

impaired when women are subjected to gender-specific violence, such as sexual

harassment in the workplace. Sexual harassment includes such unwelcome sexually

determined behaviour as physical contact and advances, sexually coloured remarks,

showing pornography and sexual demands, whether by words or actions. Such conduct

can be humiliating and may constitute a health and safety problem; it is discriminatory

when the women has reasonable ground to believe that her objection would

disadvantage her in connection with her employment, including recruitment or

promotion, or when it creates a hostile working environment.

Article 14(1) (g) of the Constitution recognizes that a citizen has the freedom to engage

by himself or in association with others in any lawful occupation, profession, trade,

business or enterprise. The fundamental right to engage in a lawful occupation,

profession, trade, business or enterprise is dependent on the creation of an environment

free from sexual harassment” (the emphasis was added)

14

21. In the circumstances, I find no reason to grant any relief prayed for in the Petition. Accordingly,

the application is dismissed with costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Hon. Rohantha Abeysuriya PC, J.(P/CA)

I agree.

President of the Court of Appeal