==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

High Court {Gampaha}

Case No: HC/18/99

C.A Application No.223-224/07

In the matter of a petition of appeal in

terms of section 331{1} of the code of

criminal Procedure Act No 15 of 1979

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

Lanka

The Hon Attorney General,

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

Complainant

Vs

1. Claid Earl Fenando

2. Hewawasam Puwakpitiyage

Premarathna

Accused

1

1t

i,

,

I I 1

I

\ I

1 \

1 'l I I

J

BEFORE

COUNSEL

And

1. Claid Earl Fenando

2. Hewawasam Puwakpitiyage

Premarathna

Accused Appellants

Vs

The Hon Attorney General,

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT RESPONDENT

SISIRA J DE ABREW, J

P.W.D.e. JAYATHILAKE, J

Anil Silva P.e. with Lasith Mudalige for the

1st Accused Appellant.

D.S.Wijesinghe P.e. with Kaushalya

Molligoda and Isuru Somadasa for the 2

nd

Accused Appellant.

2

I I I I I I

t

j I I

Rohantha Abeysuriya DSG for the

Complainant Respondent

Argued On 01.11.2013,04.11.2013

Decided On 05.12.2013

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake J.

Upali Senevirathne was the eldest child of a family of four children. He was a

carpenter by profession. On the 5th of October 1989 he was engaged in

carpentry in a house close to his permanent residence, 11/2, Malinda,

Kapugoda. Upali was arrested with two other persons, namely Ananda

Wataraka and Premadasa by the 1st Accused Appellant who was the Officer

In Charge of the police station Pugoda. They were taken to the police station

Pugoda in the police vehicle bearing No: 32 Sri 194 driven by the 2

nd Accused

Appellant who was a police driver attached to the police station Pugoda.

Somawathi, the Mother of Upali went to Pugoda police station following

morning along with Grama Niladhari of the area, namely Sujatha Somasili. At

that time Somawathi saw her son Upali at the police station with Ananda

Wataraka and Premadasa. Upali was in a loin cloth alone with his hands and

3

II! ! III

i

1l

~ "I II t

i I

legs shackled. His face had a frightened look. Somawathi could not speak to

her son. She saw the 1st Accused Appellant in his office room.

On two days she handed over food parcels of breakfast, lunch and dinner to

the police officers at the gate asking them to give them to her son. On the

3rd day she was told by the police officers that her son was sent to Dompe

police station. After that Somawathi went to Dompe police station and

handed the food parcel to the gate where she was told that they would give

him the food parcel if he was there. Once she went there in the afternoon,

she was informed that, her son had not been brought to the police station.

Then she went again to Pugoda police station where she was vituperated

and driven away, telling her to see him in Boossa (place where a detention

camp was situated) or in the river, Kelani. Thereafter, Upali never came

home or Somawathi couldn't find him anywhere.

Complaints in this regard were not entertained by any authority at the time.

A complaint was made to the Commission to Investigate Missing Persons,

when that commission was instituted after about five years. After the

investigations were made by the said commission the 1st and the 2nd

Accused Appellants were indicted on four counts on abduction. The 1st

count was in respect of said Upali, namely Sapuarachchi Kankanamalage

Upali Senevirathna, committing an offence punishable under Sec.356 to be

read with Sec.32 of the penal code by commit abduction with the intention

of secret and wrongful confinement.

After the trial before High Court of Gampaha, both Accused Appellants were

convicted for the first count and sentenced to two years Rigorous

Imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs : 2500/- carrying a default sentence

of six month Rigorous Imprisonment. Being aggrieved with the said

4

IIi

f

I

J I

I

\

conviction and the sentence, Accused Appellants preferred this Appeal to

this Court.

Evidence of Somawathi, (the mother of Upali,) Ananda wataraka, (a person

arrested together with Upali) and the police officers who investigated into

the incident of abduction was led at the trial. The following matters were

revealed in addition to the main story mentioned at the beginning.

Ananda Wataraka was questioned about a gun after they were taken to the

police station. After Ananda Wataraka disclosed the fact that Upali hidden a

gun in Ananda Wataraka's premises, Ananda was taken back to that place to

search for the gun. After being taken back to the police station Ananda

Wataraka was put into the cell while others were detained in a place at the

back of the police station. In the same afternoon a person called Anil was

brought to the cell. After six days Premadasa was brought to the cell while

Upali was kept in the same place. Ananda had seen Upali twice while

Ananda was going to the lavatory. Thereafter Ananda had not seen him. In

Ananda's evidence he has further stated that they were assaulted from time

to time by the police officers including the 1st Accused Appellant.

Ananda Wataraka was charged before High Court and had been leniently

dealt with on his pleading guilty to the charges.

The 1st Accused Appellant had been serving in the Pugoda Police Station on

the date of abduction, that is, 5th October 1989. He had reported for duty at

6.30 hours, and had made an entry that he was going to investigate some

information received by him. He had gone for this investigation along with

ten more officers in a jeep bearing No : 32 Sri 194, driven by the 2

nd Accused

Appellant. He had reported back to the station by 14.30 hours, but no entry

5

1

f:1i ,•,

JIl

I(

had been made in regard to the arrest of Upali by him or any other police

officer.

The learned President's Counsel who appeared for the 1st Accused

Appellant took up the position that the 1st Accused Appellant as a Peace

Officer had the legal right to arrest Upali on suspicion.

This same argument has been raised in Embilipitiya abduction and murder

casel . The relevant paragraph of the judgement of Kulathilake J in that case

reads,

"The learned president's Counsel who appeared for the 2nd

Accused Appellant went on to say that in order to curb the

insurrection the Army Officers were authorized to arrest any

person"

The said sentence was followed by the submission of the learned Deputy

Solicitor General who appeared for the Respondent which states.

"However the learned Deputy Solicitor General met this

argument by submitting that if they came, as Army Officers

without hiding their identity and arrested the'n that could have

been lawful and he was not have any complaint to make as to

the manner of abduction."

In the instant case learned President's Counsel went on to say, that the 1st

Accused Appellant and other Police Officers who came with him were in

their uniforms and they had come as Police Officers to arrest Upali and

-,-

l.2003-03-SLR 362

6

1!

t

others. If they had a dishonest intention they would not have come in that

manner, submitted the learned counsel.

The argument was that if the arrest was legal at the time of the arrest it

would not become an offence by virtue of subsequent acts.

Chapter IV of the code of Criminal Procedure Code provides the provisions

with regard to the arrest. Sec 32 provides the authority to peace officers to

arrest a person without a warrant. Sec 32(b) gives the power to arrest any

person, who has been concerned in any cognizable offence or against whom

a reasonable complaint has been made or credible information has been

received or a reasonable suspicion exists of his having been so concerned;

Therefore no doubt that the 1st Accused Appellant had authority to arrest

Upali, if he had any information against him concerning any cognizable

offence.

What would be the position if a police officer arrested a person on the

authority provided by Law and disregarded the rest of the provisions with

regard to the arrest. Criminal Procedure Code, while providing authority to

Police Officers to bring the offenders into book, (at the same time) provides

necessary provisions to protect the liberty of the subjects. According to the

relevant provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code, Peace Officers shall not

detain in custody or otherwise confine a person arrested for longer period

than under all the circumstances of the case is reasonable, and such period

shall not exceed the period prescribed by law

2• Officers in charge of police

stations shall report to the Magistrates' Courts of their respective districts

2. Sec.37 of the Code of Criminal Procedure

7

1f

rI

f

J!

•f

[

"

the cases of all persons arrested without warrant by any Police Officer

attached to their stations or brought before them and whether such persons

have been admitted to bailor otherwise3•

Submissions were made with regard to the certainty to the fact that Upali

was arrested by the Accused Appellants. Somawathie had not seen the

arrest. Evidence of Ananda Wataraka who testified to the fact that Upali was

arrested by the 1st Accused Appellant should not have been believed

because he was a person who had been brought to book by the 1st Accused

Appellant, further submitted the learned President's Counsel.

A police team had come to Somawathi's house at 11.30 a.m on the day in

question. But Somawathi has clearly stated when giving evidence none of

the two Accused Appellants was among the police officers of the said team.

There is no wonder of the absence of both Accused Appellants in that police

team because it appears that the said police team was not from Pugoda

police station but from Kosgama police station. They had asked Somawathi

to send her son to Kosgama police station and not to Pugoda police station.

Therefore as the learned trial judge who had the benefit of observing the

demeanour and deportment of the witnesses was satisfied with the

testimonial trustworthiness of them, this Court does not intent to intervene

with the findings of the learned trial Judge over that matter.

The Accused Appellants had decided to keep silent after the prosecution

case. As a result, the only fact which was before the trial judge was that

Upali was taken away from his workplace and he was seen at the Police

Station. The very facts revealed in the case speak that Upali had not been

3. Sec. 38 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Code.

8

1fI f

II

formally arrested. Yet, he had been detained and confined under the control

of the 1st Accused Appellant.

Explanation to Sec. 23(1)of is as follows.

Explanation Keeping a person in confinement or restraint without

formally arresting him or under the colourable pretension

that an arrest has not been made when to all intents and

purposes such person is in custody shall be deemed to be

an arrest of such person.

If the Police Officer who arrested a person has not completed the legal

process to make it a legal arrest, what could be the result? I am of the

opinion that there are two unavoidable inferences,

1. There was Criminal intention at the time of the arrest

2. Criminal intention had developed subsequent to the

arrest.

It is the same conclusion that can be arrived at within the scope of facts

reveled in this case as well.

Evidence reveals that it was a period of terror during which disappearances,

and abductions were often heard about and unidentified corpses were

found in different places. It has been decided in Mohommad Sadiq V.

emperor4 that "If he has any intention other than that which is suggested by

4. AIR (1938) Lahore 474

9

f

1

"

the natural circumstances of the case, the burden lies upon him under S. 106,

Evidence Act to prove that intention". This decision has been followed in

Embilipitiaya abduction and murder case.

Even though the learned Deputy Solicitor General finally took up the

position that he does not support the conviction, this court is unable to

agree with that view. This Court is of the view that failures to comply with

the legal provisions that complete a legal act of an authorized officer make

such an act illegal with consequent liabilities. I, therefore, hold taking away

Upali from his workplace by the 1st Accused Appellant was none other than

abduction with intent to cause him to be secretly and wrongfully confined.

With this conclusion this court upholds the conviction of the first Accused

Appellant. Although the Court is of the opinion that the sentence imposed

by the learned trial judge appears to be lenient, this Court does not wish to

interfere with it. Therefore, we affirm the sentence passed by the trial

Court.

The second Accused Appellant was the Police driver attached to the Pugoda

police station at the time of the incident. It was he who had driven the

Police vehicle by which Upali and others were brought to the Police Station.

It is quite clear that he was an employee working under the administrative

control of the 1st Accused Appellant. He had had no option but to act on the

directives given by his superior, namely, the 1st Accused Appellant. We,

therefore, do not hesitate to agree with the submission made by the learned

Counsel who appeared for the 2

nd Accused Appellant to the effect that the

2nd Accused Appellant was not responsible for the consequences of the

activities that took place on the day of the incident. No evidence what so

ever about any particular participation of the 2

nd Accused Appellant with

10

"

• regard to the alleged arrest. Therefore, we are of the view that the learned

trial judge was in error in arriving at the decision to convict the 2nd Accused

Appellant. We set aside the conviction and the sentence in respect of the 2nd

Accused Appellant and acquit him from the charge leveled against him.

Appeal of the 1st Accused Appellant dismissed.

Appeal of the 2nd Accused Appellant allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

SISIRA J DE ABREW, J

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

11