==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for leave to

appeal under and terms of the section 754

(2) of the Civil Procedure Code as amended.

*******

C.A.L.A. Application No.448/2006

D.C. Matugama No. 3678/Partition.

1

Mirihana Aarachchige Somarathne

Of Karaldanda

Bulathsinhala.

PETITIO NER-PETITIO NER

Vs

1. Ranawaka Arachchige Chandrapala

of Pahala Karannagoda

Panayata

Waranagoda.

PLAINTIFF-RESPONDENT

2

1. Nakandalage Don Sarnan Piyaratne

Kurnara of Diyakaduwa, Magarna.

2. Ranawaka Arachchilage Piyasena

of Diyakaduwa, Magarna.

2A Ranawaka Arachchilage

Siriyawathie, of Diyakaduwa,

Magarna.

3. Ranawaka Arachchige Chandrasena

of Diyakaduwa, Magarna.

4. Ranawaka Arachchilage Cyril of

Diyakaduwa, Magarna.

5. Ranawaka Arachchilage

Ratanawathie

Behind Hospital, Ingitiya.

6. Ranawaka

Yasawathie of

Arachchilage

"Ranjani", Madarnpe, Haltota.

7. M.L.A Dayawathie

8. Ranawaka Arachchilage

9. Ranawaka Arachchilage all of

Yaya 13, Kala-oya, Rajangane.

10. AM. Surnathipala of

319, Passara Road, Badulla.

11. W.K. Janaka Pushpa Kurnara of

Diyakaduwa, Magarna.

DEFENDANT -RESPONDENTS

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

Deepali Wijesundera J.

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

M.M.A. Gaffoor J.

: Sanath Jayathilake for the

Petitioner.

Rohana Deshapriya with

Chanakya Liyanage for the

Plaintiff - Respondent.

: 1 ih February, 2015

: 06th July, 2015

Respondent in this application has filed an action in the District

Court of Mathugama (No. 3678/P) to partition a land called

"Hingureowita Pitakattiya" and a preliminary survey was done and after

the Defendants filed their statements of claim the case was taken up for

trial and judgment was delivered on 24/06/2004. Subsequent to filing of

the interlocutory decree commission was issued for the final partition on

24/08/2004. The petitioner who was not a party to this case has filed a

petition and affidavit and moved to set aside the decree and to add the

petitioner as a party to the case.

3

The plaintiff respondent and one defendant had objected to this

application and thereafter the learned District Judge has dismissed the

petitioner's application stating that the petitioner had failed to prove how

his rights were affected and that a partition decree can be challenged

only if the decree is made without jurisdiction and also stating that the

petitioner's claim do not come under Sec. 48 (1) or any provision of the

partition Act.

Being dissatisfied with the said order the petitioner filed the

instant application seeking leave to appeal.

The learned counsel for the petitioner citing a number of

judgments argued that when a fraud has taken place in the original court

it goes to jurisdiction, and if the court had acted without jurisdiction

proceedings thereafter have to be set aside.

The petitioner's counsel submitted that the law requires that there

has to be publication to enable persons who have rights to the carpus to

intervene as parties and make their claims. According to the journal

entries no publication has been done. Referring to JE No. 04 of

0110312001 he stated that no notices have been tendered to court which

4

means no notices have been issued and no notices have been affixed in

the land. He further referred to JE 05 and stated that the disclosed

parties have also not been noticed and said that all these facts goes to

jurisdiction.

The petitioner's counsel further stated that although the District

Judge has touched on the main relief sought he gravely erred when he

came to the conclusion that the application of the petitioner was made in

terms of Sec. 48 (3) and sorely on this basis the petitioner's application

was refused and that the District Judge has not understood that such

relief is only available to a party to the action.

Citing the judgments in Alwis Vs Kulatunga 1970 73 NLR 337,

Fonseka Vs Fonseka 1989 2 SLR 95 along with many others the

petitioner's counsel submitted that when a grave fraud had been alleged

the trial judge has to take greater care before deciding.

The respondent raised a preliminary objection to the instant

application stating the petitioner should have sought relief by way of

revision and not by way of leave to appeal to set aside the impugned

order, therefore the petitioner's application is misconceived in law.

5

The respondent stated that the petitioner has failed to submit any

material as required by the Prescriptive Ordinance to prove his

prescriptive title or possession of Lot 5 of the corpus to which he claims

title. And also stated that the petitioner has failed to satisfy court as to

how he was prevented from making his claim in the partition action and

that the petitioner also failed to prove any fraud committed by any party

as required by law.

The respondent stated under Sec. 48 (3) of the Partition Act the

only remedy available to the petitioner is an application of revision and

restitution in intergrum under the said Act, and since the final partition

has been done the petitioner could file an action to claim damages

under Sec. 49 of the said Act. The respondent cited the judgment in

Gunathilaka Vs Murial Silva and others 79 NLR 481, Perera Vs

Adelin 2000 3 SLR 93, Somawathie Vs Madawela 1983 2 SLR 15,

R.Rash Vs Thambipillai 68 NLR 145 and stated that it has been

decided that the District Court has no power to allow intervention after

entry of the Interlocutory decree.

The learned District Judge was correct when he decided Sec. 48

(3) deals with a person who has been a party to a partition action and

6

has failed to file his statement of claim and not to an outsider who has

not been a party to the action.

The petitioner can only come into the said partition action under

Sec. 48 (5) which states;

Sec. 48 (5) The interlocutory decree or the final decree of

partition entered in a partition action shall not

have the final and conclusive effect given to it by

subsection (1) of this section as against a person

who, not having been a party to the partition

action, claims any such right, title or interest to

or in the land or any portion of the land to which

the decree relates as is not directly or remotely

derived from the decree, if, but only if, he proves

that the decree has been entered by a court

without competent jurisdiction.

To prove fraud has taken place which falls on to jurisdiction the

petitioner has placed his evidence in the District Court. The learned

District Judge after considering his claims has decided that he has failed

7

to prove a fraud has taken place or that he had possession of part of the

corpus.

The preliminary objection taken by the respondent that the

petitioner should move in revision and not in appeal is a futile objection,

and the said preliminary objection is rejected under Sec. 36 A and Sec.

45 A (1) of the Partition Amendment Act No. 17 of 1997.

The Court of Appeal can not go into the merits of the evidence

and analyze the evidence placed before the District Court but can only

deal with the legal issues. Here the District Judge has gone into the

merits of the evidence placed before him and decided that no fraud has

taken place.

The judgments referred to by the petitioner's counsel do not apply

to the instant case.

The petitioner has a remedy if he has lost his rights under the said

decree under Sec. 49 of the Partition Action. The petitioner should have

moved under Sec. 49 which deals with action for damages by a person

who has not been a party to a partition action.

8

For the afore stated reasons the application of the petitioner is

dismissed with costs fixed at Rs. 10,000/=.

c-1ro~J

JUDGE O~HE COURT OF APPEAL

M.M.A. Gaffoor J.

I agree

9