==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

Court of Appeal Application No:

CA (WRIT) 08 I 2012

1.

In the matter of an application for Mandates

in the nature of a Writ of Certiorari and

Prohibition and in terms of Article 140 of the

Constitution of the Democratic Socialist

Republic of Sri Lanka.

Dadallage Herbert de Silva Senadheera, "Dhammika Nivasa", Telwatta.

RESPONDENT -PETITIONER Vs.

Mathara Gunasinghe Arachchige Premalathe Samararathna,

No.232, Horana Road, Piliyandala.

APPLICANT-1st RESPONDENT

2. Sarojini Gabadage, Inquiring Officer Land Redemption Department People's Bank, No.220, Deans Road, Colombo 10. 3. People's Bank, People's Bank Head Office, No.75, Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha

Colombo 2. 4. Hon. Mahinda Rajapakse, Minister of Finance Ministry of Finance and Planning, The Secretariat Building, Colombo 1. 5. Dr. P.B. Jayasundera,

Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Planning, The Secretariat Building,

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued on

Written Submission on

Decided on

S.Sriskandarajah,T

2

Colombo 1. 6. Mr. Don David Jagoda, No.73/14, Sri Dharmarama Road, Ratmalana.

RESPONDENTS

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

Geffrey Alagaratnam PC, with Manju Sithambaram

for the Petitioner.

R.Suwandaratnne

for the 1st Respondent,

Kushan D' Alwis PC

for the 3rct Respondent

11.03.2013

29.04.2013 (Petitioner),(1st,2nd and 3rct Respondent)

18.07.2013

The Petitioner in this application had purchased the premises in issue from the

6th Respondent by a transfer deed No.177 dated 14th September 1994, attested by W.P.

Rajapaksa, Notary Public. The 6th Respondent had obtained title from the 1st Respondent under

a conditional transfer Deed No.852 dated 7th July 1993, attested by M.M. Sandanayake, Notary

Public. As the 1st Respondent has transferred the said property on a conditional transfer, he

remained in possession of the said premises and, as the Petitioner has now got the title

transfered in his name, he had filed an action in the District Court of Panadura in Case

No.1506/L, praying for a declaration of title and possession. While the case was pending before

the District Court of Panadura, the 1st Respondent, by an application dated 10/05/2004, to the

Department of Land Redemption of the People's Bank under the Finance Act No.ll of 1973,

sought to redeem the said premises, claiming that her family income was less than Rs.100,000/-

3

for the past 3 years. After the receipt of this application, the 3rd Respondent Bank, as provided

by the Finance Act, held an inquiry to determine whether the said premises has been

transferred by the owner of such premises to any other person after receiving from such other

person a sum of money as consideration for such transfer and upon the condition that on the

repayment by the transferor of that sum, with or without interest thereon, within a specified

period such other person will re-transfer those premises to the original owner. This is provided

under Section 71(1)of the said Act. In determining this issue, an application has to be made by

the original owner within 10 years from the date of the period specified for the repayment of the

sum to retransfer the premises to the original owner, and for the retransfer, the Applicant's

annual average income and other members of the Applicant should not exceed a sum of

Rs.100,000/- for the 3 years immediately preceding the date on which the application was made

by the original owner. These aspects have to be considered by the Bank in the said inquiry.

In view of ascertaining the above facts, an inquiry was held by the 2nd Respondent and,

in the said inquiry, the Petitioner and the 151 Respondent participated and led evidence and

submitted documents. In the said inquiry the Petitioner raised a preliminary objection stating

that the 1st Respondent cannot make an application for the redemption of the said land to the 3rd

Respondent as an action had already been filed by the Petitioner in the District Court of

Panadura for declaration of title and possession. This preliminary objection was over-ruled by

the Inquiring Officer on the basis that the jurisdiction of the 3rd Respondent Bank is vested by

the provisions of the Finance Act and, therefore, the Inquiring Officer is not barred from going

into the application of the Petitioner and making a recommendation. The Petitioner did not

challenge the said order, but participated in the said inquiry, led evidence and made

submissions. At the conclusion of the inquiry, the 2nd Respondent recommended to the 3rd

Respondent that the annual average income of the Applicant and other members of the family

do not exceed a sum of Rs.100,000/- for the last 3 years immediately preceding the date on

which the application was made and recommended that the said premises be vested in the

Bank.

It is the submission of the Petitioner that before the recommendation of the 2nd

Respondent was made to the Bank, the District Court of Panadura had delivered its judgment

4

on 16/05/2006, delivering the judgment in favour of the Petitioner and as the effective date of

the judgment of 16/05/2006 would be the 5th of May 2000, which is the date of filing of the

plaint, as the case is decided on the rights of the parties at the time of filing the action.

Therefore, the Petitioner claimed that the 1st Respondent's application under the Finance Act,

which is after the effective date of the judgment cannot be entertained.

The provisions of Part VIII of the Finance Act contains the statutory provisions for the

acquisition by the 3rd Respondent Bank of certain premises and the disposal of such premises, in

terms of Section 71(1) read in conjunction with Section 71(d) of the Finance Act. In view of these

Sections the 3rd Respondent Bank is authorized to acquire the whole or part of any agricultural,

residential or business premises if the 3rd Respondent Bank is satisfied that these premises were

transferred by the owner of such premises to any other person after receiving from such other

person a sum of money as consideration for such transfer and upon the conditions that on the

repayment by the transferer of that sum, with or without interest thereon within a specified

period, such other person will retransfer those premises to the original owner. The function of

the 3rd Respondent is limited by laying down a procedure whereas an application for the

redemption of a property has to be made by an applicant who is the owner of the property

within 10 years from the date of the period specified for the repayment of the sum to retransfer

the premises to the original owner, and that the annual average income of the original owner

and the other members of the family do not exceed a sum of Rs.100,000/- for the 3 years

immediately preceding the date on which the application was made by the original owner.

The authority of the 3rd Respondent Bank to redeem a property is only limited to the

above provisions, and it is not debarred from exercising its jurisdiction by a party filing an

action in the District Court. In this instant application, the application of the 1st Respondent was

not made out of time, and the 1st Respondent has established before the 2nd Respondent Inquirer

that his income do not exceed a sum of Rs.100,000/ -. In these circumstances the 2nd Respondent

has made a recommendation to the 3rd Respondent Bank for the redemption of the said

property.

5

The Respondents have raised a preliminary objection in this application stating that the

said recommendation cannot be challenged by a writ of certiorari because the writ of certiorari

could only be issued against a final order or determination, and it cannot be issued against a

recommendation. In this instant case the recommendation of the 2nd Respondent has now been

submitted to the 3rd Respondent Bank for its determination, and the Board of Directors of the

said Bank has to make a determination and the 3rd Respondent Bank, after making the

determination, would be notifying to the Minister. The Minister may, by order published in the

gazette, vest in the 3rd Respondent Bank the premises to which the said determination relates.

Thereafter the Chairman of the Bank could authorize any person to take possession of the

premises for the 3rd Respondent Bank. In the above circumstances the final decision is made by

the Board of Directors of the Bank and in this case, the 2nd Respondent, the Inquiring Officer,

has only made a recommendation to the 3rd Respondent Bank, and this is not a final decision or

determination for the Petitioner to challenge by way of a writ of certiorari and, as this

application is premature, this Court upholds the preliminary objection of the Respondents.

Even on the merits of this application, the Respondents have satisfied that the application is

made within time and the Inquiring Officer who is empowered to determine the question of fact

has come to the finding that the 1st Respondent's income during the preceding 3 years

immediately preceding the date on which the application was made was less than Rs.lOO,OOO/ -.

As this is a question of fact and this question of fact was determined by the 2nd Respondent after

receiving the documentary and oral evidence, in these circumstances the Petitioner cannot claim

that he was not given a fair hearing in the said proceedings. In the given circumstances the

Petitioner has not established any illegality or irrationality or procedural irregularity in the

proceedings before the 2nd Respondent. Therefore, this Court, for the reasons aforesaid

dismisses this application without costs.

President of the Court of Appeal