==== BLOCKS ==== 

,

1 1 I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 381/2012 (Writ)

BEFORE: Ani! Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

1. A.H.M. Mahsoof 2. S.M. Anwardeen

3. M.S.M.A. Razaak

4. M.H.M. Bishrul Haffi

Special Trustees of Jumma Mosque

Moor Street, Chi law.

PETITIONERS

Vs.

lA. K.V. Sirisena

The Chairman

Rent Board of Review

Colombo.

lB. Vidura Gunaratne

Member

Rent Board of Review

Colombo.

AND 8 OTHERS

RESPONDENTS

1

iII

fI

1 !

~ 1 I 1 } I i

i i ; I i I

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERATNE J.

Rohan Sahabandu P.C, with Samithree Kumarawardena for the Petitioners

Farook Thahir with A.l.N. Mohamed, N.M. Riyaz and

M. Yusoof for the 3rd Respondent

09.12.2013

30.05.2014

2

The Petitioners are all Trustees of Jumma Mosque, chilaw and as

described in the amended petition, was appointed under the Wakuff Act (P1).

By sub paras (b), (c) & (d) of the prayer to the Petition a Writ of Certiorari is

sought to quash decision P11 of 5.7.2012, P3 determination of 26.8.2005 and

the decision of 2

nd Respondent refusing to vary the earlier order P11. Oder P11

is a decision of the Rent Board of Review. P3 is the determination of the Rent

Board, fixing the authorized rent at Rs. 4848/- per annum. A mandamus is

sought to compel the 1st Respondent to hear the appeal of the Petitioners,

afresh.

3

To state briefly the position as stated in the petition, 3rd Respondent

sought a determination of authorized rent. The Rent Board fixed the

authorized rent (P3) at Rs. 4848/=. Without a basis and also the fact that the

Rent Act does not apply. By P4 the Petitioner appealed to the Rent Control

Board of Review. Rent Control Board of Review referred the matter back to the

Rent Board to consider the matter afresh (PS). Perusal of PS, I find as stated in

PS the following matters.

(1) Property involved in appeal belongs to the Trustees of the Jumma Mosque.

(2) Applicant state that the application cannot be maintained as premises are

excepted premises and not governed by the Rent Act.

(3) Board of Review observed that there are no proceedings before the Rent

Board filed of record and no evidence led to establish that properties are

excepted premises

PG are the proceedings where some evidence recorded.

Superintendant of Work of the Local Authority gave evidence where evidence

reveal that the premises in question are unauthorized and without a building

plan and a certificate of conformity. Rent Board of Chilaw failed to consider

the above and made order by P7. It is recorded in P7 that documentary proof

provided by Petitioner and the written submissions do not contain a seal or

i I j

j

4

name of Attorney at Law and as such rejected. Therefore the earlier decision

prevail (P7). I do not know why the written submissions of the Attorney at Law

was rejected? If there was no seal or signature of Attorney at Law the Board

should verify same before making any order, since the Board deals with a

important question? To reject on such a flimsy grounds is to reverse the entire

process? Petitioner being aggrieved of P7 appealed to the Board of Review

(P8). I would prefer to incorporate the relevant paragraphs of the Petition for

what happened before the Rent Board of Review and as to ascertain the

complaint of the Petitioner.

(1) When this matter was taken up by the Rent Board of Review on

08.12.2011, the matter had been fixed for oral submissions on 12.01.2012

in the absence of the Petitioners. The Petitioners being unaware of this

date failed to be present on that date and make oral submissions. On

12.01.2012, only the Respondent's counsel had made submissions and the

matter was then fixed for order on the 15.03.2012.

Thereafter the Petitioners filed a motion and moved that they be allowed

to make oral submissions. However as the Respondents objected to this

application, the Board of Review decided to only allow the parties to tender

further written submissions if necessary.

(2) The Petitioners accordingly submitted further written submissions in which

they had referred to the evidence of the Superintendent of Work of the

Municipal Council of Chilaw and had also submitted a certificate issued by

,

(,

rir

f

t! IfI rrl I1

I I 4 I J I ,

f I 1

J I

1 , 1 ! 1 i 1 I J ]

5

the Chairman of the Urban Council of Chilaw dated 14.03.2012 marked 'X'

along with the written submissions, which states that the said building is an

unauthorized building.

(3) The Rent Board of Review considering the written submissions determined

on 05.07.2012 that the Petitioners had failed to establish their preliminary

objection i.e that the building concerned is an unauthorized construction

on the following reasons.

(i) Only one witness namely Alroy Perera from the Urban Council of Chilaw

had given evidence to testify as regards the assessment.

(ii) The evidence of Superintendent of Work, Raj Kamal was not available in

the case record according to proceedings dated 24.06.2010.

(iii) The document marked Xl had not been produced at the inquiry, which

formed part of the record.

Petitioner urge that the Rent Board of Review failed to properly

evaluate evidence placed before it and give reasons, and as such it is contrary

to law. The Petitioner fault the Rent Board of Review to properly evaluate the

evidence placed before it, and give reason. The Board of Review failed to give

due credence to the evidence of the Superintendent of Work of the local

Authority, who testified, on.

1 I * J I

6

(a) Unauthorized construction

(b) No building plan or a certificate of conformant

(c) Not calling for the record from the Rent Board (incomplete record)

Therefore the Petitioners submit that the order of the Rent Board of

Review is Arbitrary, irrational, capricious, illegal and ultra vires its power.

Having perused the objection of the 3rd Respondent the following

points are raised by the 3rd Respondent.

(1) P3 is not an order of the Rent Board, it is only a letter communicating the

order.

(2) Petitioner failed to take up the position that shop premises are

unauthorized and Rent Act has no application.

(3) Rent Board considered the evidence in arriving at the order P7.

(4) Only when the matter was set down for fresh inquiry that the Petitioner

took up the position that the building was unauthorized, but the Rent

Board rejected this contention.

(5) The shop premises in suit constructed by the former Trustees of the Chilaw

Jumma Mosque. (Prior to 1991)

(6) Former Trustees gave on lease several shop premises.

(7) 3rd Respondent took the premises on a lease rental of Rs. 550/= per

mensum-Iease Agreement produced 3R1.

(8) On or about 23.8.1996 the former Trustees filed action (25564/RE) for

eviction of the 3rd Respondent since the lease expired on 31.12.1994. Plaint

and answer annexed 3R2 & 3R3.

j II !!I

i I

(9) On 27.12.1998 learned District Judge dismissed the action 24564/RE (3R4).

(10) Former Trustees appealed to the Court of Appeal in CA 214/94 F - 3R5.

7

(11) Only after dismissal of action in D.C Colombo 24564/RE that 3rd Respondent

applied to the Rent Board to determine the rent.

(12) Rent Board determined the authorized rent at Rs. 4848/-. Former Trustees

of the Jumma Mosque appeal against the said order to the Rent Board of

Review and the Board of Review referred the matter for a fresh inquiry.

(13) At the fresh inquiry before the Rent Board the position of unauthorized

premises was raised for the first time Rent Board rejected this contention.

(14) Argument based on above appeal to the Board of Review. The Board of

Review dismissed the appeal by P11.

In the submission before court and as pleaded 3rd Respondent take

up the position of unexplained delay of the Petitioner in filing this application

and suppression and non disclosure of material facts. It is also contended that

this application consists of disputed facts which are not amenable to the writ

jurisdiction of court. It is also pleaded by the 3

rd Respondent that document 'x'

dated 19.3.2012 submitted by the Petitioner for the Rent Board made its order

on 3.3.2011 is a self serving document.

This court having considered the case of either party wish to state

that Writ Applications are discretionary remedies of court. I have to consider

the two objections raised by the 3

rd Respondent which may disentitle the

j I 8

Petitioner for remedy by way of a prerogative writ. However if the Petitioner

was able to demonstrate that the decisions sought to be quashed should be

quashed since these decisions are a nullity, laches cannot be pleaded and no

benefit from laches could be attributed to the 3rd Respondent.

The order P11 is dated 5.7.2012 and the petitioner filed the Writ

Application by petition dated 30.11.2012. The delay is about 4 months. The

amended petition was filed on 6.2.2013. Where the entire Board had been

named. Amendment is however permissible in terms of the rules. I do not

think the delay could be 22 months as submitted by the counsel for the 3rd

Respondent in his written submissions. The filing of the petition to the

amended petition is a continuous process for which a party cannot be blamed

since over a period of time circumstances and officials would change for

various reasons.

However what matters is the other matter i.e suppression and non

disclosure of material facts. If proved the application should be dismissed in

limine. Paragraph 7 to 11 of the objection of the 3

rd Respondent disclose some

vital matters not disclosed by the Petitioners. This includes documents 3R1 to

3Rs. What need to be emphasized is that the filing of a Rent and ejectment

case in a District Court and an appeal from the order of the District Court to

(

,iti

~tIIflIIii l,,

~ I !

I

9

the Court of Appeal (CA 214/94F) are matters not disclosed in the original

petition and the amended petition of the Petitioner. It is possible to argue that

matters before the Rent Board and the Rent Board of Review, though

pertaining to the premises in dispute and the action filed in the District Court

and the Appeal to the Court of Appeal, could be catergorised as based on

different cause of actions. Nevertheless, still there is a necessity to disclose the

type of action since it is mandatory to plead before the Court of Appeal (in

terms of the rules) that the jurisdiction of the court has not been previously

invoked.

In the above circumstances this court need not examine the question

whether the premises in dispute are excepted premises or whether the Rent

Act applies to the premises in dispute as urged by the Petitioners as their main

point. If in fact if there is any substance in it, the Petitioner may have to advice

themselves and consider other options. When a glaring defect or a lapse or

irregularity is brought to the notice of this court, such objections based on

same and demonstrated by the 3rd Respondent cannot be treated lightly or

ignored by this court.

"In other words, so rigorous is the necessity for a full and truthful

disclosure of all material facts that the court will not go into the merits of the

I1

lI

[

~ If

~ I

f

t

10

application, but will dismiss it without further examination. Pathirana J. in

Alphonso Appuhamy Vs. Hettiarachchi (1973) 77 NLR 131, 136. Parties need to

open and be frank with court and must not suppress material facts or practice

deception. Per Sansoni J. Kandy Omnibus Co. Ltd. Vs. Roberts (1954) 56 NLR

293,304. Such matters could be raised in limine. 1997 (l)SLR 360-363.

This court is not inclined to grant any relief to the Petitioners. As such

this application is dismissed without costs.

Application dismissed.

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne J.

I agree.

Iit f I I! t

I

i I i I II• l f J ,I ,

J