==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF AUEAS OF THEJlEMOCnATIC's'(~~fJAIJSI

REf!J.BLIC QF.~.LANKA.

CA - (PHC) 1B3/04

HewayaJage Piyasena,

J'\1anikka dawra/

Thunthcta.

PE,titioner - A~!~Ila.nt

Vs.

1. Agrarian Service Commi.ssionec

Agrarian Service Department,

Colombo.

2. Agrarian Service Assistance

Co mmissioner/

Agrarian Service Commjssioner

Office,

K 11 ega •.. a.

3. P.R. Awlin Nona,

Imbalowita,

Thunthota.

4. Y.K Podi Nona,

Manikkadwra/

Thunthota.

1

Before

5. U.rA. Da:~masiri,

U{agama,

H(; ndugahapitiya

At 3.1 a ..

6. P. Gunapala,

Manikkadawra,

Thunthota.

7. M.:<. Ldsly Weerasighe,

Manikkadawra,

Thunthota.

-Respondents-

: 'rV"M.M.Malin i(~ Gunarathne, j

: P.R.Walgama, J

Counsel : S.A.D.S. Sura\,veera for the Appellant.

: Chaya Sri Na:mmuni SC fol' the 1st & 2nd Respondents.

: Raki1tha Abeysinghe for the 3rd, 4th, 6th & 7th

Respondent.

Argut~d on : ll4·.0!i.2015

Decided on: 01.09.2015

2

CASE-NO·· CA-(PHC)-183/2004- ORDER- 01.09.2015

P ~R. \Valgama, J

The instant order concerns an ap}lication made by the 6th

and the 7th Respondents to have the speculative appeal

dismissed in liming on the basis, of the i\ppellant's failure to

comply with the Supreme Court Rul(~s.

The Appellant filed a writ application :in the lProvincial High

Court: of Kegalle, agcinst the determination of the 2nd

Respondent, who was the Assistaa: Commissioner of Agrarian

Development, for deciding that the Appellant is not the tenant

cultivator of the land in issue. Being aggrieved by the said

decision the Appellant, invoked the jurisdiction, of the Provincial

High Court by way of Writ of Certiorari to have the said

decision quashed and set aside.

At the conclusion of thE inquiry thE~ Learned Hi/2:h Court Judge

has dismissed the Application of the Petitioner- Appellant by the

order dated 30.08.2004 and up held the decis:ion of the 2nd

Respondent accordingly.

Being aggrieved by the said order of the Learned High Court

Judge, the Appellant appealed to this Court to have the said

order of the Learned Hlgh Court Judge and the decision of the

2nd Respondent to be quashed.

3 j

I

I will not embark on material fa::ts relevant to the instant

appeal, but only deal with the preliminary objection raised by

the Respondents as to the maintainability of this appeal.

The relevant section that deals with the matter to be resolved

is Section 14(1 ) (d) of the Rules of the Court of Appeal in

respect of the Vvrit applications in terms of Article 154(p)(4) of

the Constitution} which ~itates thus;

14 (1)

The petition of Appeal shall be distinctly written upon good

and suitable paper, and shaH contain the following particulars;

a. The name of the Court in which the application is

pending;

b. The names of the parties: to the application;

c. The names of the appellant and of the respondent;

d. The 3.ddress to the Court of APPE al;

e ............... ..

f. ................ ..

Section 15(1)

/I if the petition of appeal is not drawn up in the manner in

the last preceding rule prescribed, it may be .rejected or

returned to the appellant, for the purpose of being amended,

within a time to be fixed by the Court, or be amended then

4

tII

and there. When the Court rejects under th:[s rule any petition

of appeal, it: shall record the reasons of such rejection. And

when any petition of appeal is arr.ended under this rule the

Judge, or such officer as he shall app,:>int in that behalt~ shall

attest the amendment by his signature."

It is salient to note that, in the line of authorities which has

dealt with the non compliance of tt.e Supreme Court Rules

was based on the ground .. that the !;aid mis':ake on the part of

the appellant has not materially prejudiced the Respondent.

In the instant matter the Appellant has failed to address the

Judges of the Court of Appeal, in the petition tendered to this

Coure which is tantamount to a failure to invoke the

jurisdiction of this Court. Therefore without invoking the

jurisdiction of this Court, the questlon will arise whether this

Court can exercise its Jurisdiction under Article 154 P(4) of the

Constitution, and as per Article stated in the rules of Supreme

Court.

It is ob5erved from the judicial c.ecisions that, the. identical

issues were resolved by interpreting the rules, giving effert tn

the strict compliance of the same, and farlure to do so was

fatal to the maintainability of the appeaL

In the case of Coomasaru .vs. Mjs Leechman and Co. ltd,

Tennekoon CJ has observed thus;

5

-1

!r

jI-I I

"Rules of Procedure must not always be regarded as mere

technicalities which partjes can ignore at their whim and

pleasure."

In the above mentioned case, the preliminary objection raised OIl

behalf of the Respondents was that the failure on the part of

the Appellant to comply with the rules, and as such appeal

was dismissed accordingly.

The above view was endorsed in the following cases too.

In the case of NICHOLAS .VS. MACAN MARKER LTD; (1981) 2 SLR

1, it was held that non-compliance with the Rule which is

imperative terms would render su ch application liable to be

rejected.

In the case of NAVARATNESINGHAM .VS. ARUMUGAM (1980) 2

SLR 1 has opined thus;

"this Petition therefore should have been rejected, for non-

compliance w'ith Rules.

It was held in the case of SHANMUGADIVU .VS. KULATlLLEKE

(2003) 1 SLR 215, that the requirements of Rules are imperative

and the Court of API= eal had no discretion to excuse the

failure to comply with the Rules.

6

1

, .

For the above compell:lng reasons, I up hold the preliminary

objection and dismiss the Appeal accordingly.

Appeal is dismissed.

JUDGE OF 1l-IE COIDtT OF .APPEAl.

\lV.M.M.Malinie Gunarathne, J

I agree,

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APP:t:AI,

7