==== BLOCKS ==== 

1 j I j

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for a

mandate or a writ in the nature of a writ of

Certiorari in terms of Article 140 of the

Constitution of the Democratic Socialist

Republic of Sri Lanka.

*******

1. A. A. Gunawardane

B 1/1, Jathika Mahal Niwasa,

Pamankada Road, Kirulapone,

Colombo 06.

2. M.P. Perera

B 2/2, Jathika Mahal Niwasa

Pamankada Road, Kirulapone

Colombo 06.

3. R.E.D. Amarasena

B 1/2, Jathika Mahal Niwasa

Pamankada Road, Kirulapone

Colombo 06.

4. P.H. Wimalasiri

B 3/1, Jathika Mahal Niwasa 1

fi

CASE NO. C.A. (Writ) 603/2008

2

Pamankada Road, Kirulapone

Colombo 06.

5. NA. Illukpitiya

B 2/1, Jathika Mahal Niwasa

Pamankada Road, Kirulapone

Colombo 06.

COMPLAINANTS

Vs

S.J. Sirisena

BG1, Jathika Mahal Niwasa

Pamankada Road, Kirulapone

Colombo 06.

RESPONDENT

AND NOW

S.J.Sirisena

BG1, Jathika Mahal Niwasa

Pamankada Road, Kirulapone

Colombo 06.

RESPONDENT -PETITIONER

1 A. A. Gunawardane

B 1/1, Jathika Mahal Niwasa,

Pamankada Road, Kirulapone,

Colombo 06.

1ST COMPLAINANT RESPONDENT

3

2 M.P. Perera

B 2/2, Jathika Mahal Niwasa

Pamankada Road, Kirulapone

Colombo 06.

2ND RESPONDENT

3 R.E.D. Amarasena

B :!h, Jathika Mahal Niwasa

Pamankada Road, Kirulapone

Colombo 06.

3RD COMPLAINANT RESPONDENT

4 P.H. Wimalasiri

B 3/1, Jathika Mahal Niwasa

Pamankada Road, Kirulapone

Colombo 06.

4 TH COMPLAINANT RESPONDENT

5 N.A. Illukpitiya

B 2/1, Jathika Mahal Niwasa

Pamankada Road, Kirulapone

Colombo 06.

5TH COMPLAINANT RESPONDENT

Condominium

Authority

Management

First Floor, National Housing

Department Building

Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner

Mawatha

Colombo 02.

6TH RESPONDENT

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

Deepali Wijesundera J.

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

: Ikram Mohamed P.C. with

Roshan Hettiarachchi for the

Petitioner.

Rajeev Amarasuriya with

Chathurani Jayasena for the 1 st

and 3rd Respondent.

Viveka Siriwardhana D.S.G. for

the 6th Respondent.

: 1ih February, 2015

: 19th June, 2015

The petitioner has filed this application seeking the issuance of a

writ of Certiorari to quash the order made by the document marked "J"

dated 03/07/2008 sent by the sixth respondent Authority's Acting

General Manager, by which the petitioner has been directed to demolish

an unauthorized permanent structure.

4

The petitioner's learned counsel argued that the said letter "J"

refers to an inquiry conducted under Sec. 9A (1) of the Common

Amenities Board Law and found an unauthorized construction in the

rear compound of the house but the said order has been issued without

complying with the mandatory provisions of Sec. 9A (1). The petitioner

was informed by the sixth respondent to be present for an inquiry to be

held under Sec. 6(M) of the said Act regarding a complaint made by the

first to the fifth respondents. The petitioner submitted that an inquiry

held under Sec. 6(M) is different from an inquiry held under Sec. 9A (1)

and that under Sec. 9A (1) it is a mandatory requirement to issue notice

to the party concerned specifying in the notice itself to show cause why

the unauthorized construction should not be demolished and restored to

its original condition. He further submitted breach of the provisions

stated in Sec. 9A (1) and (2) would render the order made by the sixth

respondent void in law for non-compliance of the mandatory provisions

of the law.

Citing the Judgment in Bradybury Vs Enfield LBC (1967) 1 WLR

1311, Fernando Vs Mohideen Ismail 1982 (1) SLR 222, Kandiah Vs

Abeykoon 4 Sri Kantha's Law Reports p96, Mohideen Vs Inspector

of Police Pettah 59 NLR 217 and Wethanayagam Vs Inspector of

Police in Kankasanthurai 50 NLR 185 stated that non observance of a

procedural statute is an illegality and that the petitioner did not appear

5

before the sixth respondent's authority in pursuance to a notice that was

sent under Sec. 9A (1) of the said act.

The learned counsel for the petitioner argued that it is incorrect to

state in the letter marked J that at an inquiry held under Sec. 9A (1) of

the said Act it was observed that the unauthorized structure referred to

has been constructed, since no notice had been issued in term of Sec.

9A (1) of the said Act.

The petitioner's counsel further submitted that the unauthorized

structure of the petitioner had been constructed in 1998/1999 before the

Amending Act No. 23 of 2003 by which, power was given to the sixth

respondent in respect of unauthorized structures and that the impugned

order has been made without jurisdiction.

The learned counsels for the respondents raised a preliminary

objection stating that the petitioner has failed to make the necessary

persons as parties to the application namely the Acting General

Manager of the sixth respondent who has signed the letter marked J as

well as the inquiry officer who conducted the inquiry in terms of the said

act which they stated are a serious lapse.

6

The respondents also stated the petitioner has suppressed

material facts the letter sent by the NHDA dated 17/07/1990 (marked

6R3 and R6) which was marked and produced at the inquiry, was not

produced in the instant application. The said letter specifies the

construction for which the NHDA has given permission to the petitioner

but the petitioner has not confined his construction to the authorized

limits. The respondents stated that at the inquiry the petitioner argued

that the construction was done after getting permission by 6R3 which

showed that he had not confined his construction to the authorized

structural improvement but had gone beyond that and constructed an

unauthorized structure.

The respondents stated that the petitioner has failed to establish

that any prejudice was caused to him by reference to a mediation

inquiry in the notices served. The respondents stated the petitioner was

represented by an Attorney-at-Law at the inquiry and he was well aware

of the nature of the inquiry. The petitioner had been given the

opportunity to place evidence and documents at the inquiry and he and

his Attorney have been present at the inquiry days.

The respondents stated on the notice issued mentioning a

mediation inquiry no prejudice had been caused to the petitioner since

7

he had been given an opportunity to show cause and give evidence and

mark documents at the inquiry. Citing the judgment in Edirisuriya Vs

Navaratnam 1985 1 SLR 100 respondents stated that as long as an

authority has the power to do a thing it does not matter if it is done by

reference to a wrong provision of law and the order can always be

justified to the correct provisions of law empowering the authority

making the order to make such order.

The respondents stated by virtue of provisions in Sec. 9A and 16

(1) of the said Act the sixth respondent is vested with the power to direct

the petitioner to demolish the unauthorized structure erected by him.

The petitioner has deliberately suppressed facts from court when

filing the instant application. Document 6R3 or R6 is a vital document

which shows that the petitioner had been granted approval to make

certain adjustment to the house which had been marked at the inquiry.

The petitioner had relied on this document to show his construction was

authorized but it had proved otherwise at the inquiry hence he did not

mention it in the petition.

8

III

Jff!'

1 I ] f I t

~ ! The petitioner's main argument was that he was not served a

notice under Sec. 9A of the said Act but a notice under 6M was served

on him. But the petitioner has participated represented by an Attorney at

the inquiry. He was well aware for what the inquiry was held for;

therefore one cannot say his rights were prejudiced. He was given an

opportunity to show case, call evidence and submit documents after the

inquiry only the letter J was sent to him.

The petitioner had tried to take cover under the letter 3R6 at the

inquiry stating he had permission by the NHDA to make alternations to

the house when making the present application he has failed to file this

document which shows the petitioner has not come to this court with

clean hands.

The document the petitioner is seeking to quash letter J very

clearly states what has transpired at the inquiry this is not an illegal

document as the petitioner stated.

By virtue of Sec. 9A (1) and Sec. 16 (1) of the Common Amenities

Board Act it is clear that the sixth respondent is vested with the power to

9

direct the petitioner to demolish the unauthorized structure erected by

him.

Even though the notices served on the petitioner makes reference

to a mediation inquiry the decision of the Condominium Management

Authority contained in document J can be justified since the Authority

was vested with the power to make the said order under Sec. 9A of the

said Act.

For the afore stated reasons I refuse the application of the

petitioner with costs fixed at Rs. 25,000/=.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

10