==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

J I I i I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL

OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A.(PHC) NO.61/2012

PHC NEGOMBO

P. Aruna Pradeepa Prasanna

No.120j5, Medawella Road

Pethiyagoda

Kelaniya.

Claimant-Petitioner-Appellant

Vs.

1.The Officer-In-Charge

CASE NO.HCRA 152/2012

M.C.WAITALA CASE NO.62564

Special Crimes Investigation Unit

Western Province (North)

Peliyagoda

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON

DECIDED ON

Complainant-Responde nt-Respondent

2.The Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

Respondent-Respondent

K. T.CHITRASIRI, J.

MALINIE GUNARATNE, J.

Anuja Premarathna for the Appellant

Anoopa de Silva, S.S.C. for the two Respondents.

15.10.2014

28.10.2014 by the Claimant-Petitioner-Appellant

21.10.2014 by the Respondent-Respondents

28TH NOVEMBER 2014

CHITRASIRI, J.

One W.Rohan Prasad De Mel was charged in the Magistrate's Court of

Wattala under Section 47 read with Section 57 of the Excise Ordinance as

amended subsequently. The charge leveled against him was for transporting

illicit liquor in the car bearing No.17 -2209 belonging to P.Aruna Pradeepa

Prasanna who is the appellant in this appeal. The accused De Mel was

convicted for the aforesaid offence found in the Excise Ordinance on his own

plea. Pursuant to the conviction imposed on the accused, the claimant-

Petitioner-Appellant, (hereinafter referred to as the appellant) he being the

registered owner of the vehicle 17-2209, made an application to have the said

vehicle released to him relying upon Section 54(2) of the Excise Ordinance.

Learned Magistrate, on a direction by the learned High Court Judge in

Negombo held an inquiry into the application made by the appellant in order to

make an order under the aforesaid Section 54(2) of the Excise Ordinance in

respect of the vehicle 17-2209. The appellant, he been the only witness in the

said inquiry gave evidence on 15.07.2011. Learned Magistrate having

considered the evidence so recorded, made order confiscating the vehicle 17-

2209 refusing the claim of the appellant.

Learned Magistrate, in his decision has stated that the registered owner

(appellant) has failed to establish that he had no knowledge as to the

commission of the offence to which the accused has pleaded gUilty.

Accordingly, he has decided to confiscate the vehicle. Being aggrieved by the

aforesaid decision, the appellant filed a revision application in the High Court

2

1

1!,\IiI

III,[

t Iif! ! i

II

i ! I! i I

of Negombo. High Court Judge, having considered the evidence of the

registered owner, affirmed the order of the learned Magistrate and dismissed

the revision application filed in that Court. Being aggrieved by the aforesaid

decision of the learned High Court Judge, the appellant preferred this appeal.

Hence, it is necessary to ascertain whether or not the learned judges in the

Courts below have implemented the law referred to in Section 54(2) of the

Excise Ordinance, correctly.

The aforesaid Section 54(2) of the Excise Ordinance reads thus:

54(2) Any excisable article lawfully imported, transported, manufactured,

had in possession, or sold along with, or in addition to any excisable article

liable to confiscation under this section, and the receptacles, packages, and

coverings in which any such excisable article, materials, still, utensil, implement,

or apparatus as aforesaid is found, and the other contents, if any, of the

receptacles or packages in which the same is found, and the animals, carts,

vessels, or other conveyance used in carrying the same, shall likewise be

liable to confiscation.

(emphasis added)

The law referred to above shows that the vehicle claimed by the appellant

is liable to be confiscated since the said vehicle had been used to commit an

offence under Section 47 read with Section 54 of the Excise Ordinance.

However, it must be noted that the words "be liable to confiscation" is

specifically being mentioned therein. Therefore, in such a situation the Court

should take into account, those words mentioned in that Section before making

3

,

I

f!IIIi

fij , "

i !it

i f

~

\Ir

; I j l I j an order for confiscation of a vehicle under the prOVISIOns contained m the

Excise Ordinance.

The impression that comes to a judicial mind by looking at the manner,

m which those words are being used in that Section 54(2), is that it is to

ensure holding of an inquiry by the trial judge before he makes an order. Then

only the trial judge becomes entitled to make an appropriate order. However,

such a decision should be made only after having addressed his mind to the

material before him in a judicious manner. [Inspector Fernando Vs Marther

(1932) 1 CLW 249, Sinnetamby Vs. Ramalingan 26 NLR 371]

Necessity to hold an inquiry before making an order for confiscation have

been upheld not only when it comes to the provisions contained in the Excise

Ordinance but also in the applications made under the provisions found in the:

./ Excise (Special Provisions) Act No.13 of 1989;

[Kaluthota Financial Services (Pvt) Limited Vs. The Attorney

General CA (PHC) 91/2011 CA minutes dated 07.06.2012]

./ Forest Ordinance as amended; and

[The Finance Company PLC vs. A.M.P.Chandana and others

S.C.Appeal 105A/2008 dated 30.09.2010, Manawadu Vs. Attorney

General 1987 (2) SLR 30]

./ The Animals Act.

[Faris Vs. 0 I C Police Station Galenbindunuwewa 1992 (1) SLR 167]

4

In the circumstances, it is clear that holding of an inquiry before making an

order for confiscation has become a sine qua non even under the Statutes

referred to above though the words "liable to be confiscated" is not found in

those other statutes, as it is seen in the Excise Ordinance. Such a requirement

namely holding of an inquiry has been made necessary since it is trite law that

a person should not be deprived of his property without an opportunity being

given for that person to show cause, before making an order for confiscation. I

made those observations since holding of such an inquiry by the learned

Magistrate in this instance too had taken place only after the intervention of

the High Court Judge in a revision application filed by the appellant. However,

such a question is not an issue in this appeal.

I will now turn to consider whether the learned Magistrate has correctly

evaluated the available evidence when he decided to confiscate the vehicle

claimed by the appellant. As referred to earlier in this judgment, in Section

54(2) of the Excise Ordinance the words "be liable to confiscation" are found.

Therefore, the manner in which the confiscation of a vehicle used to commit an

offence under the Excise Ordinance is not the same, as it found in the

aforesaid other enactments such as Forest Ordinance in which confiscation of

vehicles used to commit offences has been made mandatory, if the claimants

fail to establish the matters, as required in those statutes. It is so, since the

word "shall" is used in the Sections found in those other statutes.

5

As for an example when it comes to Excise (Special Provisions) Act No.13

of 1989:

"the vehicle used in connection with, the commission of the offence shall,

by virtue of such conviction, be forfeited to the State. "

The words mentioned in the Forest Ordinance as amended read as:

"all. .... motor vehicles ..... owned by such person or not shall, by reason of

such conviction be forfeited to the State. "

In the Animals Act as amended it is mentioned thus:

((where any person is convicted of an offence under this part or any

regulations made there under, any vehicle used in the commission of such

offence shall, ..... be liable, by order of the convicting Magistrate, to

confiscation: "

In the circumstances, confiscation of the vehicle used in the commission

of an offence under the Excise ordinance is not automatic but it is liable to be

confiscated after affording an opportunity to the person who claims the vehicle

under Section 54(2) of the Excise Ordinance, enabling him to present his claim

before the trial judge. Hence, the yardstick used in the cases coming under

those other enactments cannot be made applicable as authoritative to the issue

at hand and therefore the decisions pronounced in relation to those statutes

should not be made strictly applicable when it comes to the offences under the

Excise Ordinance.

Then the question arises as to the criteria applicable to the confiscation

of vehicles under Section 54(2) of the Excise Ordinance. My considered view in

6

this connection is that it is the objective test that should be applied in such a

situation. Accordingly, this Court should decide the issue in a manner; that is

similar to the way in which a reasonable and a prudent man look at the issue

in such a situation.

In the circumstances, it is necessary to ascertain whether the

appellant in this instance was successful in establishing whether he in fact had

no knowledge whatsoever of the act of transporting illicit liquor making use of

the vehicle that he owns, on a standard of balance of probabilities. This is to be

ascertained after looking at the evidence recorded at the inquiry held before the

learned Magistrate. The only available evidence in this regard is the evidence of

the appellant. He has given evidence claiming the vehicle in the capacity as the

registered owner of the vehicle.

The relevant evidence in that regard is as follows:

O)5CClC) c~~ 6)(iC~C)) 6)c® ®(iG)~ ~~GC)). 2011 .04.25 C)~ '(~ ol (iClj~ ClO(9)

~~GC)). O)5CClC) c~~ 6)(iC~C)) 6)c(9). aQ~®(im (iO)(5))~ gc:n( (i®~ 6)c~ qcC)

®® (5)~~~C)). (iO)(lD)~ (im ~oG3 ®(im Q)a~(im c)ti(iC)cl. qgo~ 7, 8 cl 6)ci(ici

(5)~~~C)). ®® l!C) Cl@~ C))(5)~C ~® ~z(5)z. ®® (i®® ~~~ O(9~ C)C»C). (i®®

[vide proceedings at page 30 in the appeal briefl.

Having considered the totality of the evidence of the claimant-appellant,

the learned Magistrate has concluded that the registered owner has failed to

establish that he took precautionary measures to prevent an offence being

7

committed making use of this particular vehicle. In coming to the said

conclusion, he has relied upon the two decisions namely Manawadu v. The

Attorney General [1987] 2 S.L.R. at page 30 and Mary Matilda Silva v.

Inspector of Police, Habarana (C. A. Minutes dated 08.07.2010 in

C.A.(PHC) 86/97).

Learned Counsel for the appellant submitted that it is wrong to have

relied upon the said two decisions since both those decisions have been made

in respect of an offence committed under the Forest Ordinance. Admittedly,

those two decisions have been pronounced in cases involving the offences

committed under the Forest Ordinance. As referred to earlier in this judgment,

the law referred to in the Forest Ordinance in respect of the vehicles involved in

committing offences under the said Ordinance is different to the law referred to

in Section 54(2) of the Excise Ordinance. Section 54(2) of the Excise Ordinance,

does not impose a burden on a claimant to establish that he has taken all the

precautions to prevent an offence being committed as found in the Forest

Ordinance. Therefore, I too agree with the contention of the learned Counsel for

the appellant as to the application of the decisions referred to by the learned

Magistrate to the case at hand. However, I am not inclined to discuss in this

jUdgment, the manner in which confiscations should take place under those

other enactments since it is not a matter that was argued before this Bench.

I will now look at the evidence of the claimant-petitioner-appellant to

ascertain whether he has successfully shown valid reasons to establish that he

8

l

~ lhad no knowledge or has nothing to do with the transport of illicit liquor

making use of the vehicle that he claims.

Upon a request been made by way of a telephone call, the appellant has

handed over his vehicle to the accused De Melon the 25th night without any

further queries been made. Thereafter, on the 26th , the appellant was informed

by the Police that his car was taken into their custody. Merely on a telephone

call, the claimant has given the car to the accused for him to attend a party.

The appellant in his evidence has said that he knew accused for number of

years because his wife is a friend of the sister of the accused. It is the reason

for the appellant to allow the accused De Mel to take charge of the vehicle.

Even though the appellant has stated that he knew the accused for over 7 to 8

years, no evidence is forthcoming to support that he has closely associated the

accused. In such a situation, the appellant should at least have inquired as to

the place where the alleged party was to be held. The evidence available does

not show that the claimant has taken the matter seriously. He has merely

allowed the accused to take charge of the vehicle to attend a party. Particulars

of the said party had not been elicited by the appellant before the vehicle was

handed over to the accused.

Looking at the said evidence of the claimant-appellant, it is clear that he

has failed to reveal fully, the facts that are necessary to establish whether he

had any idea or knowledge as to the commission of the offence in this instance.

Moreover, a reasonable person who owns a vehicle does not allow his vehicle to

be used by another person unless he has made meaningful queries though that

9

other person is known to him. In such a situation usually the prevIOus

character and of the behavioral pattern of the person who needed the vehicle is

carefully being considered by a reasonable person. Unless the person who

takes charge of the vehicle is reliable and possesses a good repute, a

reasonable man would not think that the person who takes charge of the

vehicle will have proper control over the same particularly in the present day

context. All those matters will take into consideration by a reasonable and

prudent person before handing over a vehicle to another person. No such

evidence is forthcoming in this instance.

Under those circumstances, it is my considered view that the claimant-

appellant has failed to show that he has no knowledge as to the commission of

this offence under the Excise Ordinance to which the accused has pleaded

guilty. Neither had he shown any other particular reason for the Magistrate or

for the High Court Judge to consider in order to have the vehicle released.

For the aforesaid reasons, I am not inclined to interfere with the order of

the learned Magistrate or of the learned High Court Judge.

Accordingly, this appeal is dismissed without costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

MALINIE GUNARATNE, J

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

10

!! Ii I

}f

I, t iiIII a l

!III; !