==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL

OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Sevanagala Sugar Industries Ltd No.362, Colombo Road, Pepiliyana, Boralesgamuwa

Petitioner C.A. [WRIT] APPLICATION NO.412/2011 VS

BEFORE

COUNSEL

1. D.J.M.V.Hapuarachchi Commissioner General of Excise Excise Department of Sri Lanka

No.28, Staple Street, Colombo 02

2. Sugarcane Research Institute Uda Walawe

3. Dr.N.C.Kumarasinghe Director / Chief Executive Officer Sugarcane Research Institute Uda Walawe

4. Director General of Customs Sri Lanka Customs Times Building Colombo 01

5. Sri Lanka Ports Authority Colombo 01

Respondents

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J

L.T.B.DEHIDENIYA, J

Faisz Musthapha P.C. with Saliya Devendra, instructed by Paul Ratnayake Associates for the Petitioner

Arjuna Obeysekera, D.S.G. for the Respondents

1

t t i I I

~ I

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON

DECIDED ON

CHITRASIRI, J.

30.06.2015

15.06.2015 by the Petitioner 29.06.2015 by the Respondents

04.08.2015

Petitioner is a company engaged in the business of producing sugar from

sugar cane purchased from farmers. The petitioner while producing sugar also did

produce molasses as a bi-product. In the petition, it is alleged that the petitioner

company suffered serious financial losses as a result of the drop in the production

of sugar as well as its bi-products including molasses. Accordingly, the petitioner

company has averred that it had decided to import molasses basically with the idea

of honouring the agreements that they have entered into with other companies to

supply sugar and its bi-products. Having stated so, the petitioner company alleged

that it requested the Governmental authorities namely, the Controller of Imports &

Exports and the Commissioner General of Excise to obtain necessary permission to

import molasses. Accordingly, the petitioner, for the first time, had obtained

licenses marked P5A and P5B to import 26.1 MT of molasses and indeed the

company has imported that consignment of molasses. However, learned DSG has

submitted that the said approval to import 26.1 MT of molasses was granted to the

petitioner solely for the experimental purposes and not for commercial activities.

2

II II k II t tff t

1 I

1

Thereafter, another request had been made by the petitioner company to the

Commissioner General of Excise seeking to import a larger stock of 250 MT of

molasses. It was made by the letter dated 28.12.2010 marked P6. Upon receiving

the said letter sent by the petitioner company, Commissioner General of Excise has

requested the Director, Sugar Cane Research Institute to advise him as to the

consequences, if the request of the petitioner company is allowed. By the letter

dated 28.01.2011 marked P8, the Chief Executive of the Sugar Cane Research

Institute has informed the Commissioner General of Excise that he does not

recommend or authorize importation of molasses into Sri Lanka for the reasons set

out therein. Relying upon the contents of the aforesaid letter marked P8, the

Commissioner General of Excise has informed the Chairman of the petitioner

company that he cannot consent to import molasses and accordingly the request by

the petitioner company made in the letter marked P6 was turned down.

The petitioner company not being satisfied with the decision of the

Commissioner General of Excise has sought inter alia to quash the

opinion/recommendation of the 3rd respondent [Chief Executive Officer, Sugar Cane

Research Institute] that is mentioned in the letter marked P8. Petitioner also has

moved to quash the decision of the 1 st respondent namely; Commissioner General of

Excise, embodied in the letter marked P9 which decision was based on the opinion

in P8, expressed by the CEO of the Sugar Cane Research Institute. The petitioner

company has also sought to have a mandate in the nature of a Writ of Mandamus

to obtain approval/permit/pass/recommendation that was sought by its letter

dated 28.12.2010 marked P6 to have 250 MT of molasses imported.

3

I ,

'< t 1 I !

I

\ t t Ir f I ,

,

~,-r

However, when this matter was taken up for argument on 15.05.2015,

learned President's Counsel for the petitioner informed Court that he has decided to

restrict the claim of the petitioner to the reliefs referred to in paragraphs (c) and (d)

in the prayer to the petition dated 16.06.2011. Therefore, this Court will not be

considering the request to issue a mandate in the nature of a Writ of Mandamus

that had been prayed for in paragraph (e) to the prayer to the petition.

I will first venture into consider the claim referred to in paragraph (c) in

the prayer to the petition. In that relief, the petitioner company has sought to have

a mandate in the nature of Writ of Certiorari quashing the opinion expressed by the

3rd respondent which is embodied in the letter marked P8. The aforesaid letter P8

written by the Director, Sugar Cane Research Institute, was a reply to the letter

marked P7 which was written by the Commissioner General of Excise seeking for an

opinion as to the future of the other distilleries in the event the request of the

petitioner company to import 250 MT of molasses is allowed. Accordingly, by the

letter marked P8, opinion and/ or recommendation of the Chief Executive Officer of

the Sugar Cane Research Institute had been communicated to the Commissioner

General of Excise.

Upon a plain reading of the said letter marked P8, no clear determination or

ruling that affects the rights of the petitioner company is found. Generally, such an

opinion or recommendation is not amenable to writ jurisdiction since it does not

directly relate to a violation of a right of an individual. However, in the case of

G.P.A.Silva and others v. Saidique and others 1978 - 1980 (1) SLR at 166, a

4 I

wider meaning had been given to the phrase "to determine questions affecting the

rights of subjects" to mean that "to determine questions affecting subjects."

Therefore, it is clear that the courts are now much inclined to interpret the word

"rights" giving it a broader meaning. When looking at the letter marked P9, in which

the request of the petitioner company had been rejected by the Commissioner

General of Excise, it is seen that the contents in the letter marked PB had greatly

influenced in determining the rights of the petitioner company. Therefore, it is

necessary to consider whether the opinion expressed in the letter marked PB as well

as the decision referred to in the letter marked P9 are liable to be quashed for the

reasons adduced by the petitioner company.

Admittedly, request by the petitioner to the 1 st respondent for permission to

import 250 MT of molasses had been made by the letter dated 2B.12.2010 (P6). The

said letter is addressed to the Commissioner General of Excise. However, it must

be noted that unless an import permit from the controller of Imports & Exports is

obtained, no molasses can be imported as it is an import item prohibited by law. It

is evident by the Gazette [Extra Ordinary] bearing No.175/12 dated 06.11.2008.

Therefore, importation of molasses without a valid import license from the

Controller of Imports & Exports becomes illegal.

Petitioner Company had already shipped on board a total of 250 MT of

molasses (P13) without a permit being obtained from the Controller of Imports and

Exports. Neither have they obtained prior approval from the Commissioner General

5

I

1

of Excise to do so. Therefore, it is obvious that the petitioner company has illegally

imported 250 MT of molasses without having proper clearance from the authorities l 1

concerned. Therefore, it will become an illegal act committed by the Petitioner

Company.

When the acts of the person who is seeking to have a mandate in the nature

of a writ are tainted with illegality, courts will not exercise its discretion to issue

writs. Furthermore, Writ of Mandamus will not lie even when there exists a bad

motive on the part of the applicant. This position of the law has been discussed in

the cases of Madanayake v Schrader 29 NLR at 389, James v. Fernando 48

NLR at 40 and Rasamma and another v. A.P.B. Manamperi 77 NLR at 313.

Moreover, it is to be noted that the goods in relation to which the writ of

certiorari is sought has already been sold by the Customs. As a result, no goods

are available as at present, to grant permission for its importation. It is for those

goods that have already been imported that the petitioner is seeking to obtain

permission from the authorities concerned. Admittedly, the act of importation of the

goods have now been completed and concluded. Petitioner has also failed to

indicate any other valid purpose for it to have the respective opinion and decision

referred to in the letters P8 and P9 quashed. Therefore, even if the decision of the

Commissioner General of Excise, refusing to consent for the importation of

molasses is quashed, it will have no effect or serve any purpose. Therefore, it will

become a futile exercise to issue a mandate in the nature of a writ as sought by the

petitioner at this belated stage.

6

I ,

1 I ,

1 I

It is trite law that certiorari will not be issued to quash a particular decision if

it is futile to do so. The Courts have addressed this point in the cases including that

of Sundarkaran v. Bharathi and others (1989) 1 SLR at 46, Nimalasiri v.

Divisional Secretary Galewala (2003) 3 SLR at 85, Centre for Policy

Alternatives (Guaranteed) Ltd. and another v. Dayananda Dissanayake

Commissioner of Elections and others (2003) 1 SLR 277 and Ratnasiri and

others v. Ellawala and others (2004) 2 SLR at 180.

In the circumstances, I am not inclined to issue a writ of certiorari since it

would become a futile exercise as it will serve no valid purpose. For the aforesaid

reasons, I am of the view that the petitioner company is not entitled to have a I

mandate in the nature of a writ of certiorari to quash the decisions contained in the

letters marked P8 and P9. A writ of Mandamus also will not be issued since the

\ l Ipetitioner has decided not to pursue the relief (c) referred to in the prayer to its J t petition. i ,

Accordingly, this application is dismissed with costs fIxed at Rupees Twenty

Five Thousand. (Rs.25,OOOj-).

Application dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

L. T .B.DEHIDENIYA, J

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

7