==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. L.A N0.47/2005 (F) D.C.COLOMBO CASE N0.19524/L

Godevithanage lndrani Senaratne {Nee Wickremasinghe)

No.l4A-1, Anderson Road, Dehiwela.

Plaintiff-Respondent-Petitioner

Vs

1. Munahennedige Y avindra Manawadu No.28/3, Huludagpda Lane,

OffTemplers Road, Mount Lavinia.

2. M/S Pramuka Management Financial Services No.30/1, 63-J, Longdon Place, Colombo 7.

3. M/S Pramuka Savings and Development Bank No.316, Galle Road

Colombo 3

4. M/S Savemore Investment (Pvt) Company No.54, Walukarama Road

Colombo 3.

1st to 4th Defendant-Respondent-Respondents

Shahla Cassim Formerly ofNo.7, Dickmans Road, Duplication Road, Colombo 5,

And presently ofNo.l8, Charles Place, Colombo 3.

Petitioner-Respondent

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON

DECIDED ON

CHITRASIRI, J.

2

SISIRA DE ABREW J ANIL GUNERATNE J K. T.CHITRASIRI J

lkram Mohamed PlC with Thisath Wijegunawardena and Milhan Mohamed Attorneys-at-Law for the Plaintiff-Respondent-Petitioner.

Kushan de Alwis PlC with RanjivWijesinghe Attorney-at-Law instructed by Sudath Perera Associates for the Petitioner-Respondent.

16.01.2013

29th January 2013 by the Plaintiff-Respondent-Petitioner

30th January 2013 by the Petitioner-Respondent.

28.03.2013

This is an application seeking to set aside the order dated 27th January 2005

of the learned District Judge of Colombo. By that order, an application made under

Section 18 of the Civil Procedure Code to add the petitioner-respondent namely,

Shahla Cassim, as a party to the action had been allowed.

Being aggrieved by the aforesaid order of the learned District Judge allowing

the petitioner-respondent (hereinafter referred to as the respondent) to intervene into

the action, the plaintiff-respondent-petitioner (hereinafter referred to as the

3

petitioner) filed this leave to appeal application. Consequently, this Court granted

leave on 10.12.2007 to proceed with the appeal. Thereafter, a Divisional Bench was

constituted to determine the issue and then the argument was taken up before this

Divisional Bench on 16.1.2013.

The issue before this Court is whether the learned District Judge is correct in

adding the respondent as a party to the action in terms of Section 18 of the Civil

Procedure Code. Therefore, it is necessary to examine the scope of the said Section

18 of the Civil Procedure Code. The said Section reads thus:

18 (1) The court may on or before the hearing, upon the application of either party, and on such terms as the court thinks just, order that the name of any party, whether as plaintiff or as defendant improperly joined, be struck out; and the court may at any time, either upon or without such application and on such terms as the court thinks just, order that any plaintiff be made a defendant or that any defendant be made a plaintiff, and that the name of any person who ought to have

been joined, whether as plaintiff or defendant, or whose presence before the court may be necessary in order to

enable the court effectually and completely to adjudicate upon and settle all the questions involved in that action be added.

(2) Every order for such amendment or for alteration of parties

shall state the facts and reasons which together form the ground on which the order is made. And in the case of a party being added, the added party or parties shall be named,

with the designation "added party" in all pleadings or processes or papers entitled in the action and made after the date of the order". [Emphasis added]

The above Section permits Court to add a party to an existing action

provided such an addition is necessary for the Court to adjudicate all the

questions involved in the action effectually and completely. Sufficient

4

authorities are found to determine the way in which the said criteria had

been made use of by Courts.

[Weerapperuma and Another V De Silva and Another 61 NLR 481, Arumugam

Coomaraswamy V Andiris Appuhamy and others 1985 (2) SLR 219, Hilda Enid

Perera V Somawathie Lokuge and another 2000 (3) SLR 200, Keerthiwansa V

Urban Council Horana 2001 (3) SLR 252, Colombo Shipping Company limited V

Chirayu Clothing (Pvt) Limited 1995 (2) SLR 97, Robert Dassanayake and Another

V Peoples Bank and Another 1995 (2) SLR 320, Y.B.Alackman V R.M. Charlotte

Perera & another BASL 10111194 CIA No. 594/93]

By looking at the impugned order, it is seen that the learned District Judge

had been aware of the aforesaid criteria when he decided to allow the application of

the respondent to intervene. However, when this matter was taken up for hearing

before this Divisional Bench, learned President's Counsel for the petitioner raised

the following point which had not been adverted to by the learned District Judge.

Learned President's Counsel inter alia argued; whether a person could be

added in terms of section 18 of the Civil Procedure Code relying upon the

circumstances that has occurred subsequent to the filing of the action to which

the application to intervene had been made.

The date of filing of this action in the District Court of Colombo is

13.2.2002. The petition of the respondent was filed on 29.3.2004. According to that

petition, it is found that her interests in the property in suit commenced only after the

agreement bearing No.749 dated 28.6.2002 came into existence. Therefore, it is clear

5

that the claim of the respondent in respect of the property in dispute had begun

only after 28.6.2002. Hence, it is clear that the respondent's interest in the property

upon which she had relied upon to file the application for intervention had come into

existence only after filing of the action.

As stated above, the argument advanced by the learned President's Counsel is that

no party could be added to an action in terms of Section 18 of the Civil Procedure Code,

if that application depends on the circumstances taken place after the institution of the

action. If his contention is correct in law, the impugned order has to be set aside

disallowing the application for intervention.

Accordingly, I will now turn to consider the law relevant to the issue at hand. The

criterion behind Section 18 of the Civil Procedure Code is to make sure complete

adjudication and settlement of all the questions that has arisen in that action. This action

is filed to adjudicate a dispute between the plaintiff and the original four defendants, in

respect of the land referred to in the schedule to the plaint. It is correct that the respondent

also is claiming rights to the same land put in suit but her rights came into existence only

after the filing of this action. Therefore, the question arises whether it is correct to

consider the rights of the respondent in this action in order to adjudicate and settle the

disputes amongst the parties to the action.

In the case ofWeerapperuma V De Silva [61 NLR 481] Basnayake C J held:

"To decide that ground for adding a party the Court must answer the following

questions:

(1) What are the questions involved in the action? and

(2) Is the presence of the party seeking to be added necessary in order to enable

the court effectually and completely to acijudicate upon and settle them ?.

6

To answer question (1) the meaning of the expression "questions

involved in the action" mustfirst be ascertained. The expression "action"

refers to the proceedings instituted by the plaintiff, against the parties

named by him in the plaint, for the redress or relief he seeks from the

Court. The plaint would disclose the cause of action·and the answer of the

defendant would disclose the grounds on which he resists the plaintiff's

claim for redress or relief When a question is so inextricably mixed with

the matters in dispute in an "action" as to be inseparable from them and

the action itself cannot be decided without deciding it, the question may be

said to be involved in the action. Any question arising in the case set up

by an intervenient in his petition and not arising in the case set up in the

pleadings of the parties is not a question involved in the action"

(Emphasis added)

It is trite law that actions are decided as per the rights of the parties as at the

commencement of the action. In other words, only the facts that existed before or at the

time of filing the action are to be considered in determining actions. This position had

been upheld by the following authorities.

In Silva V Fernando [15 NLR 499] it was held:

"no retrospective effect can be given to the letter, as to vest in the plaintiff a title

at the commencement of the action.

The rights of the parties to an action have to be ascertained as at the

commencement of the action. "

In the case ofTalagune V De Livera [1997 (1) SLR 253] Senanayake, J held thus:

"the Plaint was filed on 18.03.85 and under our Code, there is no provision

which for a defendant to plead by way of defence, matter arising subsequent to

the institution of action, the judgment must determine the rights of the parties as

7

on the date of the institution of the action. This was the position as held in 2

Times Report 192. It was also held in the case ofSilva v. Fernando. The rights

of the parties to an action have to be ascertained as at the commencement of the

action. This is well settled law".

The authorities referred to above clearly show that the matters that came into

existence after filing of the action cannot be considered in adjudicating a dispute in a

particular action. However, it must be noted that non-consideration of matters that came

into existence after filing of the action is applicable only when it comes to adjudication

but looking at such matters may not prevent the parties arriving at a settlement of the

dispute on their own or under similar circumstances. Accordingly, it is my considered

view that the circumstances that came into existence subsequent to the filing of the action

are irrelevant in adjudicating that action. Therefore, the claim of the respondent in this

case also cannot be entertained to determine the action of the petitioner since she

(respondent) is relying upon the facts which have taken place after the filing of this case.

In the circumstances, it is clear that the matters upon which the respondent is

relying upon for her to become a party to the action are not necessary for the complete

adjudication and settlement of all the questions arisen in this case. Probably, her remedy

is to file a fresh case against whom she has a cause of action. Indeed, learned Counsel for

the respondent on the day of the hearing brought to the notice of Court that she has

already filed an action to vindicate her rights arising out of the agreement upon which she

relied to make her application to intervene.

8

In the circumstances, I am inclined to accept the contention of the learned

President's Counsel for the petitioner and decide that the respondent is not entitled to be

added as a party in terms of Section 18 of the Civil Procedure Code, to the action filed by

the petitioner since her claim rests on matters that came into existence after the petitioner

filed this action.

For the aforesaid reasons, I set aside the order of the learned District Judge made

on 27.01.2005. Accordingly, I make order disallowing the application of the petitioner-

respondent made in the petition dated 29.03.2004. Having considered the circumstances

of the case, I make no order as to the costs of this appeal.

Application allowed without costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

SISIRA DE ABREW J.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

ANIL GUNARATNE J.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL