==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for a

writ of prohibition under Article 140 of

the constitution of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

CA WRIT 1572/2006

COLOMBO

DEVELOPMENT

LIMITED,

LAND AND

COMPANY

3RD FLOOR, LIBERTY PLAZA, NO

250, R A DE MEL MAWATHA,

COLOMBO- 03

-VS-

1. ANGLO ASIAN SUPERMARKET

LIMITED,

95, HYDE PARK CORNER,

COLOMBO-02

2. JAYKAY

SERVICES

130, GLENNIE

COLOMBO - 02

MARKETING

LTD,

STREET,

3. THE HON. MAGISTRATE,

COLOMBO FORT MAGISTRATE'S

COURT,

COLOMBO- 02

RESPONDENTS

!

! 1 i

t, !

VI Q; .s::: ....

0 "0 c: '" "0 .... ...J ....

Qj ~

'" E Q; C. ::J <1'1

c: '" ·iii « 0 bo c: «

VI > "0 .... ...J .... c: Qj E c. 0 Qj

> Qj 0 ~ "0 c: '" ...J

0 .0

E 0 (5 u --.

E ro ro VI « ~ « en ..... 0 ~ ..... ..... 00 N

I-Z LU ~ \!) 0 ::l --.

1.0 0 0 N -N r--Lll ..... I-~ ~ « u

1 1

f i J I

Before: A W A Salam, J

Counsel: Harsha Soza, PC with A R Surendran PC, Anuruddha

Darmaratne and N Kandeepan for the Petitioner and Gamini

Marpana PC with Navin Marapana and Uchitha Wikramasinghe

for the 1 st Respondent.

Argued on: 02.08.2013

Written Submissions tendered on: 25.09.2013 and 25.10.2013

Decided on: 28.11.2013

A W A Salam,J t-;JfhiS is an application for a mandate in the nature of

;~;'t~~lwrit of prohibition to restrain the Honorable Magistrate

of Colombo Fort from proceeding with case No 68200. The

application is directed at resolving an issue which requires

a deeper study and analysis of the Law applicable to

inherent powers of Court to remedy a rank injustice caused

to a party and the circumstances under which a writ of

prohibition can be issued against a Magistrate.

Without belabouring the facts relating to the background to

the writ application, the predicament of the 1 st respondent,

as far as it relates to the present application, needs to be

set out briefly. The 1 st respondent was in possession of unit

No 250/BO 2 of "Liberty Plaza" building running a

supermarket.

~ ClJ ..c .... o "0 c: "' "0 .=; ....

ClJ -t:

"' E .... ClJ 0. ::> \I')

c: "' ~

o bo c: <l:

III > "0 .=; .... c: ClJ E 0. o Qj

> ClJ o ~ "0 c: ~

o .0

E o "0 u ....,

i!

\

ft jir

f

~ I,

i

t

lIII!

I

There is no controversy that the premises in which the 1 st

respondent ran the supermarket constituted the basement

unit of the multistoried building commonly known as

"Liberty Plaza" was intended to be registered as a

condominium property and later to be alienated to the 1 st

respondent upon the fulfilment of the terms of the

agreement the parties had entered into on 18 August 1983, ~

the date being relevant to ascertain the applicability of the

particular Legislation in so far as it relates to the legal issue

that arose for determination. Admittedly, there was no

registration of the unit in question under the Apartment

(Ownership Law).

Be that as it may, the 1st respondent was ejected by an

order of the Magistrate's Court of Fort which the Supreme

Court later ruled as being illegal, since the Court did not

have the power or authority to dispossess the 1 st

respondent. The decision of the Supreme Court although

not explicitly couched as such was a clear endorsement and

implied affirmation of the decision of the High Court entered

in the exercise of its revisionary jurisdiction over the order

of the Magistrate.

A chronological account of the different turn of events that

took place in various Courts, from the time litigation

commenced, may be helpful to fully grasp the simple issue

that comes up for determination in this case. The petitioner

(Colombo Land and Development Company Ltd) initiated

proceedings in the Magistrate's Court of Fort, purportedly

'Q) .>< L-ea E (jj c. ~ Vl

c ea 'iii «

o tiD c «

VI > '0 .:l ...

C QJ E c. o Qj

> QJ Cl ~ '0

C ~

o .0 E o 8

.....

~ o o N -N l"'-Ll') rl t: a:: 3: <C u

I

i ,

II

1 I i

under the Provisions of Section 19 (D) of the Urban

Development Authority Law as amended by Act No 41 of

1988 to have the Anglo Asian Supermarkets Ltd ejected

from the premises In question, on the basis that it had

violated the terms of the agreement under which it was

placed in possession. The learned Magistrate having issued

an order nisi for the ejectment of the 1 st respondent later

made it absolute on 5 March 1991. Quite unusually, the

Fiscal of Court ejected the 1 st respondent on the very same

day, although the Law required that a writ of possession to

the fiscal requiring and authorizing him to eject an occupier

against whom an order absolute had been made in terms of

part VA of the said Law shall not be a date "earlier than two

calendar months and not later than two calendar months

from the date of the issue of such writ.

According to the Provisions of Section 19 (F) (1) of the Law

under which proceedings were initiated for the ejectment of

the 1 st respondent, the fiscal could not have been

empowered by the Magistrate to execute such writ and eject

the 1 st respondent prior to 5 March 1991. In other words,

even assuming that the making of the order nisi absolute

against the 1st respondent is in order, yet the execution of

the order by which the 1 st respondent was ejected lacks

proper authorization and is devoid of any legal basis. Thus

the dispossession of the 1 st respondent was totally

arbitrary, illogical and contrary to every norm known to the

Law.

VI Qj ~ .... o '"0 c: III '"0 =: ....

QI -'" .... III E Qj a. ::J VI

c: III ~ o tiD c: «

VI > '"0 =: .... c: QI E a. ..Q

QI ~ o

ci!S '"0 c: ~

o .0

E o ;3

U) 8 N -N '" Ln ~ t:: c::: 3: « u

~ I ! i f

In this background, the 18t respondent invoked both the

revisionary and the appellate jurisdiction of the relevant

High Court to challenge the propriety of the order of the

learned Magistrate authorizing it's ejectment of the 1 st

respondent from the premises in question. The High Court

held with the 1 st respondent, both in the revision

application and the appeal and set aside the order of the

learned Magistrate and Curther directed that iC the 1st

respondent has been ejected Crom the premises it be

restored to possession. [Emphasis is mine]

Being dissatisfied with the said orders of the High Court,

the petitioner filed a revision application in this Court in CA

PHC APN 71/94 and this Court by judgment dated 8 March

2002 set aside the judgment of the learned High Court

judge.

Dissatisfied with the said judgment of this Court, the 18t

respondent sought special leave to appeal from that

judgment to the Supreme Court, in terms of Article 128 (2)

of the Constitution. Having granted special leave and

thereafter heard the appeal, the Supreme Court by its

judgment dated 20.10. 2005 set aside the judgment of the

Court of Appeal dated 8 February 2002. Quite remarkably,

the supreme Court made no mention of the judgment

delivered by the High Court but stated in the concluding

paragraph that the appeal of the 1 st respondent to this

appeal is allowed.

VI Qj ..c ...-0 "'0 c '" "'0 ...-...J ...-

<II ~

'" E "-<II a. ::l \J')

C '" ·iii « 0 bD c «

VI > "'0 =: ...-c

<II E a. 0 Qj

> <II 0 c(j

"'0 c '" ...J

0 .c E 0 (5 u ...,

E' .!!2

n:J V) « 3: «

M ~ 0 C"'! ~ ~ 00 N

I-Z UJ ~ (!) 0 ::J ...,

1.0 0 0 N -N " Ll"l ~ !:: a::: 3: « u

I,I

r

~ f f

Consequent to the said judgment of the Supreme Court, by

motion dated 9 October 2006 filed in the Magistrate's Court

of Colombo Fort, the 1st respondent sought to enforce the

aforesaid order of the High Court, to have itself restored to

possession of the premises from which it had been ejected

on the order of the learned Magistrate.

Almost immediately after the filing of the said motion, the

petitioner filed this application seeking a writ of prohibition

to restrain the learned Magistrate from exercising

jurisdiction in respect of proceedings bearing No 68200. In

other words, the petitioner seeks the assistance of Court to

prohibit the learned Magistrate giving effect to the specific

orders of the High Court made in the revision application

and appeal HC RA 20/91 and HCMCA 7/91.

The basis on which the petitioner has sought the writ of

prohibition on the 3rd respondent reflects in paragraph 42,

43 and 44 of the petition. It being so, a reproduction of the

said paragraphs from the petition would undoubtedly be of

much assistance to ascertain the exact position of the

petitioner in relation to the application for writ of

prohibition, without reference being made to any other

documents. Hence, the said paragraphs are reproduced

below ....

42. In any event as the Supreme Court has only

set aside the judgment of the Court of Appeal in

C A application No 1/94 and has not made any

order affirming the direction of the High

VI Qj ..c +J o "C c: '" "C

~

~ ~

'" E Qj a. ~ Vl

c: '" ~

o bo c: «

VI > "C

~ +J c: cu E a. o Qj

> cu o ~ "C c: ~

o .0

E o ;3

....,

E~

I-Z LU ~ ~ Cl ::> ....,

I I 1 I

1 I I

J

to restore to possesslOn of the prem1ses 1n

dispute to the 1st respondent, any steps taken

by the learned Magistrate to restore possession

of the premises in dispute to the 1 st respondent

upon the application dated 9 October 2006

made by the 1st respondent have been taken

without jurisdiction.

43. In any event as the 1 st respondent has not

sought an order for restoration of possession to

the premises in dispute in its petition filed in

S.C. Appeal No 71/2002, the judgment of the

Supreme Court not directing the restoration of

possession to the premises 1n dispute 1S

unassailable and as such any steps taken by

the learned Magistrate for restoration of

possession to the premises in dispute on the

purported ground that the Supreme Court had

made an order for restoration of possesslOn

would be totally without foundation.

44. In any event as part VA of the UDA Law as

amended 1S inapplicable to the prem1ses 1n

dispute and as such the Magistrate's Court has

no jurisdiction to make any order regarding the

possession of the premises in dispute pursuant

to proceedings instituted under part VA of the

UDA Law, no such order could be made by the

learned Magistrate and any order made would

be without jurisdiction and/ or in excess of his

powers in the purported exercise of its inherent

powers and any such or order made by the

II> Qj ..c .... o "0

C til "0 =:; ....

Q) ~

til E Qj C. ::l V')

C til "iii « .2

tlO C «

II> > "0 =:; .... c Q) E c. o Qj

> Q) o ~ "0

C ~

o .0

E o ;3

....,

E .!!! ro VI «

~ «

C"'I"l .-t o N .-t .-t 00 N

~ o o N -N " II) .-t != a: ~ « u

f

{

i

fII[

I I

learned Magistrate In this regard would be a

total nullity.

It is of paramount importance at this stage to examine the

impact of the judgment delivered by the Supreme Court

(setting aside the impugned judgement of the Court of

Appeal), on the judgment delivered by the High Court. It is

common ground that the learned Magistrate allowed the

application of the petitioner to have the 1 st respondent

ejected from the premises in question and the order of

ejectment was carried out on the very same day. This order

of the learned Magistrate was set aside by the High Court in

the exercise of its revisionary jurisdiction. Having done so,

the learned High Court judge took the extra precaution to

make a directive on the Magistrate to restore the 1 st

respondent to possession as the order for ejectment was

tainted with illegality and therefore it leads to nUllity.

For convenience sake let me refer to the direction given by

the learned High Court judge with regard to the restoration

of possession. The relevant direction made by the learned

High Court judge reads thus ...

"If the respondent-petitionerl has been

dispossessed from the said premises described

in the schedule to the revision application in

the purported execution of a writ which issued

1 Anglo Asian Supermarkets Ltd.]

III > -0 .::; .... c: Q) E a. o W > Q) Cl

cXS -0 c: ~

o .0

E o "0 u

("(l .... o N .... .... 00 N

~ o o N -N "-LI'l .... I:: 0::: ;: « u

I t •

i J

on 5.3.91 from the said Magistrate's Court, I

direct and order the learned Magistrate of

Colombo Fort to restore the respondent-

petitioner to possession of the said premises as

it has, in that event, been wrongfully and

unlawfully dispossessed by a wrong

committed by the learned Magistrate

without jurisdiction and the learned

Magistrate of the Fort Magistrate's Court has

inherent power to repair the wrong done by

the Court to a litigant by its own act in the

exercise of its inherent power. [Emphasis is

mine]

The petitioner submitted that any steps taken by the

learned Magistrate to restore possession of the unit in

dispute to the 18t respondent upon the motion filed had

been taken without jurisdiction. It is pertinent to emphasize

at this point that the learned Magistrate has yet not taken

any steps to restore possession of the property to the 18t

respondent. As a matter of fact, the learned Magistrate has

not even embarked upon an inquiry to consider as to the

fate of the application made by the 1 st respondent, namely

to have itself restored to possession. Quite appreciably, the

learned Magistrate had entirely of his own volition decided

to refrain from hearing the application made by the 1 st

respondent seeking an order of restoration, until such time

the present application in this Court is heard and

concluded. As regards the motion he had heard the

President's Counsel initially in support of the motion and

taken steps to have notice of the said motion given to the

VI >

"t:l ::; ..... c: OJ E a. o Qj

> OJ o ~ "t:l c: "' -' o .0

E o "0 u

1.0 8 N -N ,..... II') .-t I-a: ~ 5

1 I I I l I

petitioner. In the circumstances, as was rightly submitted

by the learned President's Counsel for the 1 st respondent,

the petitioner is not quite correct when it alleged that the

learned Magistrate has taken steps to have the petitioner

restored to possession of the premises in question. The

correct position is that the learned Magistrate has taken

steps to hear the parties on the motion but had not taken

steps to restore the 18t defendant to possession.

This undoubtedly is an averment in the petition which

amounts to a misrepresentation of facts. Having considered

the above matters, I am of the view that the first ground

upon which the writ of prohibition has been sought, has no

valid basis whatsoever. Further, in my view to issue a writ

of prohibition against the 3rd respondent, would be

tantamount to depriving the learned Magistrate from

affording an opportunity to the 1 st respondent of being

heard on the application.

By reason of the fact that the petitioner had participated on

the day the motion was supported and taken notice thereof,

it is now open to it to make submissions, if necessary, in

opposition to the motion. As such, the outcome of the

motion filed by the 1 st respondent is yet to be seen, upon

the learned Magistrate hearing all the parties who have or

claim to have a right of being heard against such motion. In

view of my endorsing the argument of the 1st respondent

and my own findings on the first ground urged by the

petitioner in paragraph 42 of the petition, there is no doubt

'" Qj ..r: .... o -0 c '" -0 ::: .... ~

'" E '-QJ C. :J In

C '" ~

o tiD c <I:

'" > -0 ::: .... c QJ E c. o ~

QJ Cl ~ -0

C ~

o .0

E o 8 ....,

C'/") .... o N .... .... 00 N

\.0 o o N -N I' Ln .... !:: 0:::: 3: ()

I I

1

1 ! I j

that the petitioner has failed to satisfy Court this averment

and therefore that ground alleged is remains as being not

proved. Therefore, I am of the view that the petitioner is not

entitled to take out a writ of prohibition against the learned

Magistrate, on that ground.

The other ground urged by the petitioner requires further

elucidation. It revolves around the failure on the part of the

petitioner to seek an order for restoration of possession in

the Supreme Court and the abstinence of the Supreme

Court to order such restoration. To meet this argument the

1 st respondent contended that it is totally unnecessary to

seek an order from the Supreme Court for restoration of

possession when the High Court has already made such an

order and that appeal to the Supreme Court was to have the

judgment of the Court of Appeal (setting aside the High

Court order) vacated. The pith and substance of this

argument is that the appeal preferred to the Supreme Court

was merely to set aside the judgment of the Court of Appeal,

which judgment if set aside, would revalidate the judgment

of the High Court, unless it is varied by the Supreme Court.

As such, the learned President's Counsel of the 1 st

respondent argued that it was totally unnecessary to seek

such an order for all what the 1 st respondent prayed for in

the Supreme Court was to set aside the judgment of the

Court of Appeal. It would mean that what the 1 st

respondent intended to achieve by preferring an appeal to

the Supreme Court was to have the judgment of the Court

of Appeal erased off so as to clear the obstacle in the way of

~ QJ ..r:

+"' o ""C c: III ""C .=;

+"' QJ ~ "-III E "-QJ C. :::l Vl

c: III 'Vi « o tio c «

III >

""C .=;

+"' C QJ E c. o Qi > QJ o

o<:S ""C c: III --' o ..0

E o 8

\D 8 N .........

N ,.....

L/') .... !::: c:: 3: <t u

I I

\

1 1 t ! ,

executing the specific directive of the High Court to place

back Anglo Asian Super Market Ltd into possession

On this question too, I am inclined to the view voiced by the

1st respondent because the purpose of the appeal preferred

to this Court by the petitioner was to set aside the judgment

of the High Court, which the petitioner achieved by

obtaining a judgment in its favour. The subsequent appeal

by the 1 st respondent to the Supreme Court was to set

aside the judgment of the Court of Appeal which constituted

a serious impediment to the 1 st respondent making any

progress to espouse its cause to get to possession. After the

judgment of the Supreme Court, setting aside the impugned

judgment of the Court of Appeal is delivered what in fact

now remains is the judgment of the High Court which

remains perfectly in its original form without an iota of

variation.

It is appropriate at this stage to observe that the Supreme

Court by its judgment under consideration held inter alia

that part VA of the UDA Law as amended by Act No 41 of

1988 was not applicable to the premises in suit and further

ruled that the said part VA does not apply to the premises

and accordingly Colombo Land and Development

Company Ltd could not have invoked the jurisdiction of

the Magistrate's Court for the recovery of possession of

the premises in suit.

VI > "'0

~ ......

C QJ E a. o Qj

> QJ o ~ "'0

C ~

o .c

E o ;3

I-Z w ~ \!) Cl :::J -.

\0 o o N -N " II') ..... t: 0::: 3: « u

1 I

t I I

\

j

J

The judgment of the Supreme Court on this matter, setting

aside the judgment of the Court of Appeal is a clear

indication that the Supreme Court has chosen not to

interfere or otherwise over turn the judgment of the High

Court in any manner. In such an event, it is open to the 1st

respondent to invite the learned Magistrate to make an

order for the restoration of its possession. Once such an

invitation is so extended it is up to the learned Magistrate to

evaluate the merits of the application according to Law and

make an appropriate order. Hence, the second ground

urged by the petitioner in paragraph 43 of the petition for a

writ of prohibition is also without merits and therefore fails.

The next ground urged by the petitioner appears to be

motivated by achieving its own selfish ends. Having

obtained an order against the 1 st respondent under part VA

of the UDA Law, which admittedly is not applicable to the

premises in question, the petitioner in the same breadth

now states that as part VA of the UDA Law is inapplicable

to the premises in dispute and the Magistrate's Court had

no jurisdiction to make any order regarding the possession

of the premises in dispute pursuant to proceedings

instituted under part VA of the UDA Law. The petitioner

further maintains that no such order could be made by the

learned Magistrate and any order made would be without

jurisdiction and/ or in excess of his powers in the purported

exercise of its inherent powers and any such step taken or

order made by the learned Magistrate in this regard would

be a total nUllity. The position taken up by the petitioner to

challenge the authority of the Magistrates Court to enforce

VI Qj .c .... o "0 c: III "0 =: .... ~

III E .... OJ a. :> \J')

c: III 'Vi « o liD c: «

VI > "0 =: .... c: OJ E a. o ~

OJ o ~ "0 c: ~

o .0 E o 8

m ...... o N ...... ...... 00 N

1.0 o o N -N ,..... Lfl ...... C 0::: 5 5

I I I I I I I ,

! , i

j

J

the directive of the High Court on that basis would amount

to the petitioner being allowed to approbate and reprobate

which comes from the maxim quod approbo non reprobo,

which simply means that the Law allows no one to blow hot

and cold.

The learned President's Counsel for the 1 st respondent

cited Section 6 (a) of the High Court of Provinces (Special

Provisions) Act 19 of 1990 which reads that "A High Court

established by Article 154P of the Constitution may in the

exercise of any appellate jurisdiction vested in it by

Constitution or Section 3 or any other Law, affirm, reverse,

correct or modify any order, judgment, decree or sentence

according to Law or may give direction to the Court of first

instance or tribunal or institution or order a new trial or

hearing upon such terms as to it may think fit".

Hence, in the light of Section 6 (a) of the High Court of

provinces (special provisions) act 19 of 1990, it is not open

to the petitioner to submit that the learned Magistrate has

no jurisdiction to go into the application filed by the 1 st

respondent seeking the said order of restoration of

possessIOn. The effect of Section 6 (a) would be dealt at a

different stage of this judgment when dealing with the

inherent powers of Court.

The question as to whether a Court of justice has inherent

power to repair the injury done to a party by its own act by

~ Qj ..c o -0 c '" -0 ::l .... ~ .... '" E Qj C. :::l <I')

C '" 'Vi <I: o Qo c <I: > -0 ::l .... c Qj E c. o Qj

> Qj o c<l -0 c '" -' o .0

E ..Q o u

I"f') rl o N rl rl 00 N

\D o o N -N r--U') rl !:: 0:::: 3l: ~ u

I

I I I

I I

J

dispossessing of immovable property without jurisdiction

was considered in the case of W. SIRINIVASA THERO,

Appellant, and SUDASSI THERO, 63 New Law Report page

31. In that case having considered the fact that the Court

had no power to issue, a writ of possession and it had acted

without jurisdiction in issuing such a writ which was a

nullity it was held that the very same Court is clothed with

inherent power to set it aside and the person affected by the

order is entitled ex debito justitiae to have it set aside. It was

further held in that case that it is not necessary to appeal

from such an order, which is a nUllity.

In MOWJOOD Vs PUSSADENIYA AND ANOTHER 1987 2

SLR 287 the Supreme Court dealing with a case of a tenant

who had been evicted without notice of execution being

given to him as provided by Section 347 of the Civil

Procedure Code held that in issuing the writ of possession,

the Court had acted without jurisdiction and therefore the

evicted tenant should be restored to possession. This

judgment of the Supreme Court delivered by his Lordship

Sharvanada, CJ is a clear endorsement of the VIew

expressed in the case of SIRINIV ASA THERO (supra).

Another point of law that was raised before me pertains to

the question as to the extent to which the learned

Magistrate is bound by the judgment of the High Court. To

reiterate for purpose of clarity, the order of ejectment

entered by the learned Magistrate was set aside by the High

Court which in turn was reversed by the Court of Appeal on

~ QJ .c

'0 "0

C '" "0

~ .... ~

'" E Qj Co :::l IJ')

C '" "iii « o bo c « '" > "0

~ ....

C QJ E Co .Q

QJ > QJ Cl

cCS "0

C ~

o .0 E o ;3 -.

E~

~

IV Vl « S «

en .-i o C"! .-i .-i 00 ('oj

I-Z LU ~ ~ o :) -.

\.0 8 ('oj -('oj " Vl .-i !:: c::: S « u

, I l

the basis that the High Court had no forum jurisdiction to

set aside the order of the learned Magistrate. Anglo Asian

supermarkets Ltd having sought special leave to appeal

from the judgment of the Court of Appeal to the Supreme

Court and special leave being granted the Supreme Court

held inter alia that the High Court had jurisdiction to

deliver the judgment and ruled that the judgment of the

Court of Appeal was erroneous when it held that the High

Court had no forum jurisdiction to entertain either the

revision application or the appeal. What does the judgment

of the Supreme Court on this issue really mean? On a

reading of the entire judgment of the Supreme Court it is

quite evident that the Supreme Court in the exercise of the

highest appellate jurisdiction over the judgments of the

Court of Appeal has ruled that the High Court had the

forum jurisdiction and therefore the decision of the Court of

Appeal on this matter being erroneous needs to be set-

aside. Does it not mean that the judgment of the High Court

which was invalidated by the Court of appeal stood

revalidated by the Supreme Court? My considered answer

to this question is in the affirmative.

On a deeper study of the judgment of the Supreme Court, it

appears that it has fully endorsed with no reservation, the

judgment of the High Court. For purpose of ready reference,

the relevant passages from the judgment of the Supreme

Court are reproduced below ...

"As the respondent has now clearly conceded that if

the Magistrate's Court to eject the appellant in terms

, t , I I

VI Ci; ..r:: ... 0 "0

C III "0 ... ...J ...

<II ~

III E '-<II 0-~ VI

C III "in «

0 CD c «

VI > "0 ... ...J ...

C <II E 0-0 Qi > <II 0 ~ "0

C III ...J

0 .0 E 0 (5 u

.....

E ~ co III « 3: « m ..-t 0 I"'! ..-t ..-t oci N

f-Z LIJ ~ l!) CI ::::l .....

~ 0 0 N -N "-III ..-t t:: c::: 3: « u

1 I I /

of part VA, then the appellant was not confined to the

remedy of an appeal to the Court of Appeal. This

admission would encompass the situation that since

the Provisions of part VA did not apply to the

premises in suit, then the appellant would not be

confined to follow the procedure as set out in part VA

either before the Magistrate's Court or in the Court of

Appeal. This would mean that the question of the

appellant having to follow the procedure laid down in

Section 19 (H) becomes imperative only if part VA of

the UDA Law was in fact applicable to the premises

in suit.

It is to be noted that since the whole of part VA did

not apply to the premises in suit, the appellant could

have challenged the jurisdiction of the Magistrate's

Court without following the procedure set out in

Section 19E and the question of raising any

objections by way of an affidavit does not arise".

In the concluding paragraph of the judgment of the

Supreme Court His Lordship T B Weerasuriya,J held as

follows ..

"for the above reasons, I set aside the judgment of

the Court of Appeal dated 8 February 2002 and

allow this appeal with costs f"lXed at Rs.25,OOO/-."

From the above, it is quite clear that the appeal filed by the

1 st respondent has been allowed without any reservation.

VI ~ ..c ..... o "0 c:: '" "0 =: .....

QJ ~

'" E L. QJ C. ::l Vl

c:: '" ~

o tiD c:: <t: :> "0 =: ..... c:: QJ E c. .Q

QJ > QJ Cl 015 "0 c:: ~

o .n

E o 8

~ o o N -N ,..... Ln ...... t:: a::: 3: « u

1 i i

In order to find out the relief that had been granted to the

petitioner by the Supreme Court it may be useful to advert

to the prayer to the petition of appeal addressed to the

Supreme Court. It reads as follows ..

(a) Grants special leave from the said judgment of

the Court of Appeal dated 8 March 2002 in case

No C A (PHC) 1/94.

(b) To set aside the judgment of the Court of Appeal

dated 8 March 2002 in case No C A (PHC) 1/94.

(c) Grant cost and

(d) such other and further relief as your Lordships

Court shall seem meet"

From the above it could be gathered without any difficulty

that when the Supreme Court allowed the appeal without

any reservation it has granted the reliefs prayed for in the

petition of appeal, which means that the judgment of the

Court of Appeal has been set aside on the basis that the

High Court had jurisdiction to enter judgment both in the

exercise of its appellate and revisionary jurisdiction. In

other words, the fact that the Supreme Court has refrained

from setting aside or varying the judgment of the High

Court, renders it crystal clear that the judgment of the High

Court is faultless and should continue to remain unaltered.

The learned President's Counsel on behalf of the petitioner

took much effort to convince me that once the Supreme

Court, without specifically affirming the judgment of the

High Court had set-aside the judgment of the Court of

Appeal which in turn has set aside the judgment of the

III Qj .s:: ... o -0 c III -0 :'j ...

Q) ~

III E Qj 0-:::l V')

C III ";;; <{

o bD c <{

III > -0 :'j ... c Q) E 0-o Qj

> Q) o ~ -0 c III ...J

o .0

E o 8

M .... o N .... .... 00 N

~ o o N -N I' Lfl .... l-ii: 3: « u

l

I J j

High Court, would mean that the judgment of the High

Court is rendered invalid. As has been correctly submitted

by the learned President's Counsel for the 1 st respondent

this argument is nothing but a futile attempt and I opt to

add with respect that the fallacy of the petitioner's position

as regards this submission is self-explanatory in the light of

the unambiguous findings of the Supreme Court and

therefore merits no favourable consideration.

The other contention of the petitioner that the failure on the

part of the 1 st respondent to seek an order of restoration of

possession in the Supreme Court stands in the way of

seeking a restoration possession order is equally fruitless

and therefore should suffer the same fate as in the case of

the previous argument.

The concept and the applicability of "inherent powers of the

Court" were subjects argued at length in this application.

This concept has been the topic of lengthy discussions in

many landmark judgments of our Courts and Courts of

other jurisdictions beyond seas.

On the question of inherent powers of Court, some valuable

thoughts shared by His Lordship J FA Soza through the

Bar Association Law Journal (1988) volume II part II page

42, in his illuminating contribution titled "INHERENT

POWERS OF COURT" may be reproduced with a sense of

gratitude to the late learned author who was much

respected for his untiring efforts to impart legal knowledge

III .... Q) ~ o "C c: '" "C ::;

.... ~

'" E .... Q) C. :::l Vl

c: '" ~

o Qo c: < > "C ::;

.... c: Q) E c. .Q

Q) > Q) o ~ "C c: ~

o .0

E o 8

m .... o C"'! .... .... 00 N

\D o o N -N r--U"I .... !::: 0:::: ~ « u

1

1 I I

to the legal fraternity. The relevant passage of the author in

the said article reads as follows ...

"Inherent powers of a Court are an important aspect

of judicial power and fall within the ambit of

authority necessary for a Court to administer justice

where rules of procedure are not available to deal

with particular situations. Where the Court has

jurisdiction to deal with the matter it should not be

hamstrung for want of a procedure to attain the ends

of the law. Inherent powers thus are an important

weapon in the armoury of judicial power.

The Courts are often faced with situations where they

are obliged to act in ex debito justitiae to do that real

and substantial justice for the administration of

which alone the Courts exist. The judge will not fold

his hands and allow rank injustice to be done just

because no rule of procedure is available. The

parameters of inherent jurisdiction are not unlimited.

The Court can fill the gaps or iron out the rucks in

the law of procedure and no more. Avoidance of

conflict with the civil procedure code, sound principle

and attainment of ends of Justice must be guiding

principles where no rule of procedure exists.

To emphasize on the importance of a Court of Law being

clothed with inherent powers the work of Felix F stumpf,

may be usefully quoted from the National Judicial College of

United States, from a publication which dates back to the

year 1994. The learned author in his endeavour to

\

t

'" I'-Q) .c ....

0 "0

C ra "0 .... ...J ....

Q) ~ '-ra E '-Q) C. ::l \J')

C ra 'iii «

0 bo c « '" > "0 .:l .... c Q) E c. 0 Qj

> Q) Cl

c<S "0

C ra ...J

0 .0

E 0 '0 u -.

E' .!!! ro Vl <{

~ <{

("I') M 0 N M M 00 N

I-Z UJ ~ l!) 0 ::J -.

0.0 0 0 N -N ,...... Vl M t: cc ~ <{ u

1 1

emphasize on the significance of inherent powers of Court

states as follows ....

The term "inherent powers" consists of all

powers reasonably required to enable Court to

perform efficiently its judicial functions, to

protect its dignity, independence and integrity

and to make its lawful actions effective. These

powers are inherent in the sense that they exist

because the Court exists; the Court therefore

has powers reasonably required to act as an

efficient Court"

In the case of Seneviratna Vs. Abeykoon 1986 2 SLR 1, the

plaintiff had taken the law into his own hands and forcibly

evicted the defendant alleging abandonment and

deterioration of the premises. It was held that the Court

could in the interests of justice resort to its inherent

powers saved under Section 839 of the Civil Procedure

Code and make order of restoration of possession for the

Fiscal to execute even though the Civil Procedure Code

provided for such restoration to possession only on a

decree to be entered under Section 217 (c) of the Civil

Procedure Code.

The judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of

SIVAPATHALINGAM Vs SIVASUBRAMANIAM reported In

1990 SLR Volume 1 page 378 may be considered as a

major landmark judgment dealing with the inherent

powers of Court to remedy an injury done by the Court.

~ QJ .t:: .... o "0

C co "0 ~ ....

QJ -t: co E .... QJ Co ::J Vl

C co ~

o tiO c « :> "0

~ ....

C QJ E Co o Qj

> QJ Cl c(j "0

C ~

o .0

E o 8

ro M a N M M 00 N

I-Z UJ :E l!.) o ::::> .....

~ a a N -N '" L/') M !::: 0::: 3: « u

• !

j

This judgment quite emphatically re-echoed the principle

that a Court whose act has caused injury to a suitor has

an inherent power to make restitution and this power is

exercisable by a Court of original jurisdiction as well as by

a Superior Court.

Having perused the judgment of his Lordship S B

Goonawardena in the case of SIVAPATHALINGAM (supra) I

am of the view that the decision of the privy Council in the

case of Roger& Others v The Comptoir D 'Escompte de

Paris (1871) LR 3 PC 465 is worth being re-cited from the

judgment of the Supreme Court, as it would undoubtedly

extend a helping hand to a considerable degree to resolve

the present issue. The relevant passage from the judgment

in the case of Roger& Others v The Comptoir D 'Escompte

de Paris, cited by his Lordship Goonawardena,J with

approval is re-quoted below .....

"By the Order in Council made on an appeal to the

Privy Council it was ordered that judgment of the

Supreme Court of Hong Kong of 3rd June, 1867,

should be set aside and that a judgment of non-suit

should be entered in lieu of the judgment granted for

the plaintiff. Before the decision of the Privy Council

however the amount of the judgment had been paid

at the plaintiffs' demand by the defendants-

appellants. After the decision of the Privy Council a

motion was made by the defendants in the Supreme

Court in Hong Kong for a rule for repayment of the

amount of the judgment paid by them to the

VI Ci; ..c: .... o "C c: IV "C .=: .... ~

IV E CI.I C. ::l V'>

c: IV ~

o ~ c: <C

VI > "C .=: .... c: CI.I E c. o Qj

> CI.I £:)

cC! "C c: IV ...J

o .0

E o ;9 -.

E~ .!!! ro VI « 3: «

M .... o I"! .... .... 00 N

U) o o N -N ,..... V'I .... !::: a:: 3: « u

I 1 1 ! I l

1

\ I

plaintiffs-respondents on their demand to be made,

with interest on the sum so paid. The Chief Justice of

the Supreme Court of Hong Kong however while

making order for the repayment of the amount

actually paid refused to order interest as asked for,

expressing his opinion that no powers vested in the

Supreme Court to give interest in this manner. The

appellants applied to the Supreme Court for leave to

appeal against the order refusing to make a rule for

payment of interest and such leave was granted. The

appellants however afterwards presented a petition to

Her Majesty in Council setting out the facts and

praying that Her Majesty in Council refer the

appellants' petitioners to the Judicial Committee to

hear and determine the matter and to order the

payment of interest. The Privy Council thereafter

taking the view that there was a miscarriage of justice

committed by the Supreme Court of Hong Kong in

carrying out the Order in Council took up the petition

in the form of a supplementary appeal. Lord Cairns in

disposing of the appeal expressed the view of the

Privy Council that it was in the power and it became

the duty of the Court at Hong Kong to do everything

and to make every order which was fairly and

properly consequential upon the reversal of the

original judgment by the Privy Council. Whilst stating

that the question which the Privy Council had to

consider was whether the Court at Hong Kong had or

had not that power to order payment of interest and

if so whether in the particular case it was or was not

VI Qj .s=

'0 "0

C ro "0 =: .... ~

ro E Qj C. :::l VI

C ro ~

o Qo c « :> "0 =: .... c Qj E c. o Qj

> Qj Cl cCS "0

C ~

o .0

E o ;3

('I") ..-t o N ..-t ..-t 00 N

I-Z LU ~ l? o :::> ...,

U) o o N -N r--LI'I ..-t !::: c:::: $ « u

I j 1

I

I

proper to exercise that power, Lord Cairns said thus"

N ow their Lordships are of opinion, that one of the

first and highest duties of all Courts is to take care

that the act of the Court does no injury to any of the

suitors, and when the expression "the act of the

Court" is used, it does not mean merely the act of

the Primary Court, of any intermediate Court of

Appeal, but the act of the Court as a whole, from

the lowest Court which entertains jurisdiction

over the matter to the highest Court which finally

disposes of the case. It is the duty of these

tribunals, if I may use the expression, to take care

that no act of the Court in the course of the

whole of the proceedings does an injury to the

suitors in the Court".

(Emphasis is mine)

The Privy Council held that the Supreme Court of

Hong Kong in addition to ordering the payment of

principal should have on the principle set out above

ordered the payment of interest and directed the

payment of such interest. This case is authority as I

understand it for the proposition that there is an

inherent power in the Court not referable to a

particular jurisdiction specially given by written law

to correct its errors which result in injury to a suitor.

I say so for the reason that, as Lord Cairns said, it

becomes the duty of all tribunals from the lowest to

the highest to take care that an act of the Court does

not do injury to a suitor in the course of the whole of

VI Qj ..r::: ..... o "0

C III "0

~ ..... ~

III E Qj Co :::l '" C III ~ o be c «

VI > "0

~ ..... c

Q) E Co o Qj

> Q) o ~ "0

C ~

o .0

E o 8 ....,

I-Z UJ ~ (.!) o :::> ....,

~ o o N -N ,..... U"l .... !::: 0:: 3: « u

\ I

\

I

the proceedings, the authority wherever redress is

made must needs be referable to an inherent power.

The Supreme Court of Hongkong could have ordered

interest as the Privy Council said it could have, after

its jurisdiction had been exhausted and when the

case came back from the Privy Council only upon the

basis of an inherent power to do so residing in it. This

case is also an authority for the proposition that a

superior Court has jurisdiction to direct a Court

inferior to it to remedy an injury done by its act in the

exercise of inherent power and in so far as the

instant case is concerned I would say that this Court

therefore would have jurisdiction to direct the Court

of Appeal to take steps in restitution had it not done

that already".

Applying the principle enunciated in the case of Roger&

Others v The Comptoir D 'Escompte de Paris, it would be

seen that the High Court which exercised appellate and

revisionary jurisdiction over the impugned order of the

learned Magistrate, had every right conferred by Section 6

(a) of the High Court of provinces (special provisions) act 19

of 1990 to give direction to the Court of first instance with

regard to any matter. As the High Court had such powers

to give directions to any Court of first instance, the learned

Magistrate is presently under a legal duty to consider the

motion and make an appropriate order. To restrain the

learned Magistrate from making such an order by way of a

writ of prohibition would undoubtedly amount to an

unnecessary interference by this Court with regard to a

~ QJ ..r:: .... o "0

C III "0 ~

~

III E Cii a. ::J VI

C III "iii

~ o bD c ~

VI > "0 ~ ....

C QJ E a. .Q

QJ > QJ o ~ "0 c III ...J

o .0

E o 8

m .... o ~ .... .... 00 N

U) o o N -N " LI'I .... !:: c:: 3: « u

I I I

\

I I

1

I

I I f

I 1 I I j j

statutory duty owed by the learned Magistrate to the

petitioner.

As to the legality of the order made by the learned High

Court judge directing restoration of possession of the

property, the learned President's Counsel of the petitioner

maintains that the said directive is both an obiter dictum

and made per incuriam. The position of the petitioner is

that the reasoning in the passage directing restoration of

possession is clearly not the basis upon which the orders

of the learned Magistrate were set aside. Therefore, the

petitioner, as far as I could understand submits that the

said pronouncement is no part of the ratio decidendi in the

case, and is, therefore, an obiter dictum. It is common

knowledge that obiter dicta are remarks made by judges

which are not necessary to reach decisions but are made

as comments, illustrations or thoughts. The concept stare

decicis is essentially the doctrine of precedents. This

doctrine requires the judges to apply the same reasoning to

lawsuits as has been used in prior similar cases by

supenor Court. An obiter dictum does not have such

binding effect on the subordinate Courts as it is made in

the form of a comment. As a matter of fact, the question

whether the direction given by the High Court is stare

decisis or an obiter dictum does not arise in this case

because it is issued in the form of a command on the

Magistrate. Therefore the learned Magistrate is now duty-

bound to consider the motion filed by the petitioner and is

obliged to make an order according to law.

'" .... QJ ..c ..... o "0 c: III "0

=>

~

III E .... QJ Co ::l \J'I

c: III 'iii « o tiD c: « '" > "0

=> ..... c: QJ E Co ..Q

QJ > QJ o ~ "0 c: ~

o .0

E o ;3

m .-t o N .-t .-t 00 N

\D o o N ......

N ,..... LIl .-t !::: a: ~ « u

I

1

1 I !

I

1

As the learned High Court judge has not made the

direction contrary to law or in ignorance of the law or by

mistake or inadvertence the concept per incuriam is not

applicable to the issue before hand.

The circumstances in which a writ of prohibition can be

applied were clearly laid down by Lord Justice Atkin in the

case of R Vs Electricity Commissioners (1924) 1 KB 171 at

page 205. According to His Lordship Lord Atkin "whenever

anybody of person having legal authority to determine

questions affecting the rights of subjects, and having the

duty to act judicially, acts in excess of their legal authority

they are subject to the controlling jurisdiction of the Kings

bench division exercising writs.

As far as the present cases is concerned although the

learned Magistrate has a legal authority to determine the

questions affecting the right of the subjects and duty to act

judicially there is no evidence to establish that he had

acted in excess of his legal authority as far as the motion

filed by the 1 st respondent is concerned. To inquire into

the circumstances under which relief is sought In the

motion and to grant or refuse relief prayed for In the

motion IS within the jurisdiction and authority of the

learned Magistrate. In such a circumstance, it IS

elementary principle that no Court IS empowered to

exercise prerogative powers to issue a writ of prohibition.

To issue such a prohibition on the learned Magistrate

would be an infringement of the Constitutional Provisions

contained in article 105, namely to restrain the learned

,I 1

VI Qj ..r:: .... 0 "0 c: '" "0 .... -' ....

Q) ..... .... '" E Qj C. ::J Vl

c: '" "iii <t:

0 bo c: <t:

VI > "0 .... -' .... c: Q) E c. .Q

Q) > Q) 0 ~ "0 c: '" -'

0 .c E 0 "0 u ....,

E' I1l I1l VI q:

~ q:

m .-! 0 "! .-! .-! 00 N

I-Z UJ ~ (.!) Cl ::::> ....,

~ 0 0 N -N r--LI'l .-! !::: 0:: ~ q: u

1 } I I

I

I

\ t

Magistrate from protecting, vindicating and enforcing the

rights of the people.

It is the bounden duty of the Magistrate to 1nqu1re into

whether a rank injustice has been done to the 1 st

Respondent with the view to remedy the same, either by

invoking his inherent powers or that of the High Court to

gIVe direction in terms of the law. It is stated

authoritatively by the Privy Council that it is the duty of

every court that no act of the court in the course of the

whole proceedings does an injury to the suitors in court.

To perform the judicial function efficiently, to protect the

dignity and independence of the institution created for the

administration of justice and to prevent the abuse of the

powers of court, it 1S my opinion that the learned

Magistrate should be given a free hand to consider the

motion to make an appropriate order according to law.

VI Qj ..r: .... o "0

C '" "0 .=;

.... ~

'" E Qj a. ::J V)

C '" ~

o bo c ~

~ "0 .=;

.... c cu E a. o Qj

> cu o ~ "0

C '" ...J

o .c

E o 8

E' ..!!!

!tJ V) « In terms of article 1 05 of the Constitution of the 3: « Democratic socialist Republic of Sri Lanka read together

with section 2 of the Judicature Act to protect , vindicate

and enforce the rights of the people the learned Magistrate

should be at liberty to consider the motion so as to

ascertain the extent to which the 1 st respondent can be

granted relief as against the alleged damage caused by the

rank injustice said to have been committed by the learned

Magistrate.

i

~

1 1 I I ! I 1 I I i

t

I I I I

i I

I 1 l , 1 I

In conclusion, it is my considered view that the petitioner

has not made out a case for the issuance of the writ of

prohibition sought against the 3 rd respondent. Further,

even if it be otherwise, yet to issue a writ of prohibition, in

this matter is an unnecessary exercise, as it is too early in

the day to consider such a remedy, for the petitioner could

still challenge the issuance of a writ of possession, if

issued, before the appropriate forum by way of appeal, if

such appeal is available or by invoking the revisionary

jurisdiction of the appropriate Court. The long and short of

it is that the petitioner, in any event has not established

that the learned Magistrate has acted in excess of his legal

authority by entertaining the motion filed by the 1 st

respondent. As a matter of Law, the learned Magistrate is

in fact not precluded from making an appropriate order on

the motion, after hearing the parties.

Hence, the application of the petitioner is dismissed

subject to costs payable to the 1 st respondent fixed at

Rs 52500/-.

4~~ JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

NR/-

~ Q) .c .... o "0 c: "' "0 :J ....

Q) .>< '-"' E Q) C. ::l V'l

c: "' ~ o liD c: « :> "0 :J .... c: Q) E c. o ~

Q) Cl oCI "0 c: ~

o .0

E o 8

.!!!

I'CI VI « ~ «

N') .-I o N .-I .-I 00 N