==== BLOCKS ==== 

i,

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REOUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Court of Appeal

Case No; CA(PHC) 149/2014

In the matter of an Appeal under

and in terms of Article 154P(6)

read with Article 138 of the

Constitution of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

S.S.B.D.G.Jayawardene

Chairman,

Tea Research Institute,

Talawakele.

APPLICANT

HC Nuwara Eliya Case No.HC/NE/29/13

M.C.N'Eliya Case NO.32649

Vs.

K.N.Deen

Chairman,

Texland Fashions Lanka

(Private) Limited

No.ll/1B, Schofield Place,

Colombo 03.

1

.'

J

RESPONDENT

AND THEN

S.S.B.D.G. Jayawardene

Chairman,

Tea Research !nst!tt!t~\

Talawakele.

APPLICANT - PETITIONER

Vs.

K.N.Deen

Chairman,

Texland Fashions Lanka

(Private) Limited

No.II/IB, Schofield Place,

Colombo 03.

RESPONDENT - RESPONDENT

AND NOW

S.S.B.D.G. Jayawardene

Chairman,

Tea Research Institute,

Talawakele.

2

1II

II

~

r

([

-'

Before

APPLICANT -PETITIONER-APPELLANT

Vs.

K.N.Deen

Chairman,

Texlan rl Fash;"'~'" T ....... lr ... 1\..1. J..1.UiJ...) .1..Jui.l.i·l..c.l.

(Private) Limited

No.ll/IB, Schofield Place,

Colombo 03.

: W.M.M.Malanie Gunarathne, J

: P.R.Walgama, J

Counsel : Ms. Farzana Jameel, D.S.G. with Sur~il GUQ:;:iura; S.C

for the Appellant.

Mr.Rohan Sahabandu P.e. with Harith Amerasinghe

for the Respondent.

Argued on : 29.04.2015

Decided on : 17.06.2015

f

3

\ I

CASE-NO-CA(PHC) 149/2014- JUDGMENT -17 -06-2015

P.R.Walgama, J

The Claimant- Petitioner by his affidavit dated 23.11.2012 along

with the application for ejectment, under and by virtue of

Section 5 of the Act No. 07 of 1979(State Land Recovery of

possession Act.) moved inter alia for the ejectment of the

Respondent from the land described in the schedule to the

said notice. In the said application it is stated that the

Respondent is in unlawful possession of ... 1.. ~ __ :...l !and

~~,..l l.11t .:>cilU ctuu.

had failed and neglected to hand over peaceful possession of

the said land in terms of Section 4 of the said Act.

The Respondent by his statement of objections has stated thus;

That the Respondent is in occupation of the said disputed

property by holding a valid permit.(by deed of lease)

It is categorically stated that the said Lease Agreement is valid

and still in force. The above Agreement is marked as V1 and

is duly registered at the Nuwara eliya Land Registry. The

Respondent has also tendered certain receipts in proof of the

payment of monthly rental paid to the Claimant from 2003-

2012.

The Respondent is carrying on a business in the said land

and entered in to the afore said Agreement on a lease for 50

years.

! j

I

4

Therefore it is the position of the Respondent that the

Claimant has no right to send him a notice of eviction in

terms of the above Act.

In the above elucidation of the facts herein before mentioned

the Learned Magistrate has in the said impugned order dealt

with the same at a greater length. In that the Learned

Magistrate has expressed that the Claimant acting under

Section 3(1) (b) had failed to give notice of 30 days and

there by had acted in contrary to the afore said Section.

In dealing with the above Section the Learned Magistrate has

also dealt with the case of KANDIAH .VS. ABEYKOON (Srikantha

Law Reports Volume iv page 96) wherein Their Lordship

expressed thus;

III am of the view that upon a true construction of the

statute as a whole, the form of notice, application and affidavit

had to be in strict compliance with those which the

legislature has thought important enough to set out in the

schedule before the jurisdiction of the Magistrate to eject a

person in possession or occupation could be exercised."

(emphasis added)

There fore it is abundantly clear that the strict compliance of

the conditions contained in the above act should be followed

in this process.

5

I

[

I

\

\

\

1

The Learned Magistrate had also dealt with the position taken

up by the Claimant regarding the payment made by the

Respondent after the termination of the said Agreement.

In the above setting the Learned Magistrate was of the view

that the said Lease Agreement marked as Vl is in force and

the same has not been terminated by the Claimant in

conformity with the said provisions of the State Land

Recovery Possession Act No. 07 of 1979.

Accordingly the Learned Magistrate dismissed the Claimant's

application on the basis that the Respondent is in possession

of the disputed land on a valid permit which is in accordance

with the provision 9(1) of the State Land Recovery of

possession Act.

Hence in the said back drop the Learned Magistrate

dismissed the Application made by the claimant for the

ejectment of the Respondent from the land in issue.

Being aggrieved by the said impugned order the Claimant-

Petitioner preferred an application by way of Revision to the

Provincial High Court of Nuwara eliya, to have the said order

set aside or be vacated.

It is the contention of the Petitioner that the Respondent is

in unlawful possession of the land in dispute. It is common

ground that the Petitioner and Respondent entered in to the

6

said Agreement as Vl or X2. As the Respondent has failed

and neglected to pay the rental the Petitioner has ter minated

the said Agreement and demanded the arrears due to the

Petitioner. Besides the Petitioner has tendered a statement of

accounts which indicates the mode of payments made by the

Respondent as per Agreement stated above.

The Petitioner also asserted the fact that they had given due

notice in terms of Section 9(1) of the State Land Recovery of

Possession Act, and the Learned Magistrate has misconstrued

the said process.

The Learned High Court Judge after a careful analyze of the

facts and the law emerged from the documents filed there in

had arrived at the conclusion as stated in the impugned order

dated 10.11.2014.

It is apparent from the said impugned order of the Learned

High Court Judge that he has arrived at the said decision on

the basis that the subject matter is not a devolved subject

in terms of the 13th Amendment to the Constitution and as

such a High Court in a Province cannot go in to such matters

relating to state lands.

The Learned High Court Judge has adverted to the decision of

the Supreme Court which interpreted the 13th Amendment to the

Constitution III the case of SOLIMUTTU RASU .VS.

7

1

I i l I! I I! Ir

!

\

~fatIII

t, r Ii

.'

1 I

1

SUPRINTENDANT OF STAFFERED ESTATE- (SC App 21/13 (SC

Special LA 203/12) wherein the decision in the case of

WERAGAMA VS. EKSATH LANKA WATHU KAMKARU

SAMITHIYA(1994) 4 Sri LR 293 was taken in to consideration.

His Lordship Mark Fernando J. has observed the intention of

the Legislature in adopting the 13th Amendment. in the case of

WERAGAMA VS. EKSATH LANKA WATHU KAMKARU SAMITHIYA,

thus. "The Court cannot attribute the intention except that

which appears from the words used by the parliament and

that all the subjects and functions not specified in list I or II

were reserved thereby contradicting such general intention to

do otherwise."

In the case of WALALAWITA KAMKANAMLAGE MAHINDA .VS.

DIVISIONAL SECRETARY MEEGAHAKIULA- SC special leave to

appeal, decided on 20th January 2014 has also subscribed to

the same view.

Being aggrieved by the said order of the Learned High Court

Judge the Claimant-Petitioner- Appellant has lodged the instant

Appeal to have the said order set aside or be vacated.

It is contended by the Appellant that the Respondent has

failed to pay the rental regularly and as such the Appellant

has terminated the Agreement and issued a quit notice on or

about 26th May 2010 on the Respondent, demanding the

8

l

f I,

! ,!I

l t \

I

\ I

.'

Respondent to hand over vacant possession of the disputed

land on or before 26th of June 2010, which is marked as X7.

In the light of the above it is abundantly clear that the

Appellant has given notice of 30 days for the Respondents to

vacate the said premises. It is viewed from the paragraph 10

of the Petition that the Appellant has accepted certain amounts

as lease rental arrears which has

termination of the Lease Agreement. Further more it is stated

a sum of Rs. 487,500/ paid by the Respondent was held over

by the Appellant as against the losses incurred by the

Appellant due to the delay in paying the rental as per

Agreement stated above. Therefore it is alleged by the

Appellant that the learned Magistrate has dismissed their

application for ejection of the Respondent under the State

Land Recovery of Possession Act was on a wrong premis.

Besides it is noted that the Respondent has not paid the

monthly rental as agreed upon by the above Agreement, and

there by has violated Agreement.

The identical issue was resolved in the case of

IHALAPATHIRANA .VS. BULANKULAME, DIRECTOR GENERAL UDA

{1988} 1 SLR 416, and had observed thus;

"the rights and liabilities under the agreement could be the

subject matter of a civil action instituted by either the UDA or

the Petitioner. The mere fact that such a civil action is

possible does not have the effect of placing the land

9

I

!

rIIII

-~l ij

~

i

~ II I !! i1

~

j

\

I i I

described in the notice marked P3, outside the purview of the

State Lands (Recovery of Possession) Act. Indeed, in all instances

where a person is in unauthorized occupation or possession

of State Land such person could be ejected from the land in

an appropriate civil action. The clear object of the State

Lands (Recovery of Possession) Act is to secure possession of

such land by an expeditious machinery without recourse to an

ordinary civil action."

Hence in light of the above it is crystal clear that the above

mechanism has been introduced by the said Act in respect of

the State Lands with the specific purpose as stated above.

Although the Respondent took up the position that he has

paid the rental up to the due date, it is apparent that the

Respondent has failed to make the payment on a regular

basis. In the case M.R.M. RAMZEEN, COMPITANT AUTHORITY .VS.

MORGAN EBGINEERING (PVT) LTD S.c. APPEAL-DECIDED ON

27.06.2013, it was held that a subsequent payments made by

the occupant to the owner does not cure the deficiency of

not having a written permit or authority granted by the State

according to law to remain on the impugned land.

It also has been brought to the notice of Court initially a quit

notice was sent to the Respondent in the year 2010, complying

with the requirement in terms of Section 3(1) of the State

land(Recovery of Possession) Act. Subsequently on 22 of

10

It II! If t I

I ,.\

October 2012 notice to quit was issued to hand over vacant

possession on the 23 of November 2012. Therefore in the

said back drop it is apparent that the Learned Magistrate has

arrived at the above determination on a wrong premis.

In interpreting the above said judgment of SOLAIMUTTU

RASU .VS. THE SUPRINTENDENT, STAFFORD ESTATE has stated

that in the said case it has only decided that the Provincial

High Court had no jurisdiction to issue writs under Article

154 P( 4) in relation to matter concerning State Land.

In the said judgment the issue stemmed there in was

whether the Provincial High Court could exercise its original

writ jurisdiction under Article 154 P (4) of the Constitution to

quash a quit notice issued under the State Lands (Recovery of

Possession) Act.

It was the finding of Their Lordships in the above case that

the Provincial High Court to exercise the writ jurisdiction the

issue should be one that falls within the ambit of the

Provincial Council List. It was the interpretation of their Lord

Ships that the subject of the State Land does not fall within

the said list. Therefore it was observed by Their Lordships

that the Provincial High Court could not issue writs under

Article 154 P(4) of the Constitution in respect of matters

connected with the State Land.

11

1

~I

!

~ II

f f !

i I

f

I

tI IIrII

j FI

It was further held in the said judgment that the act of the

competent authority in issuing a quit notice for ejectment

does not fall within the extent of matters specified in the

Provincial Council List and therefore Provincial High Court

would have no jurisdiction to exercise writ jurisdiction in

respect of quit notice issued under State Lands (Recovery of

Possession) Act as amended".

In the above setting it is asserted by the Petitioner that he

has invoked the revisionary jurisdiction of the High Court

under Article 154 P(3) (b) to have the impugned order of the

Learned Magistrate set aside.

Therefore it appears from the above setting this Court has

only two issues to be resolved.

Firstly whether the Appellant has given 30 days notice to the

Respondent to vacate the disputed premises in terms of

Section 3 (1 ) (b) of the State Land Recovery of Possession Act

No. 7 of 1979.

AND

Whether the Provincial High Court is vested with the

jurisdiction to entertain any application in respect of State

Lands.

In resolving the issue No1 the Appellant has adverted this

Court to exhibit marked X7, which is a proof of the fact that

12

II! II

fJI

ftfl

I

the Appellant has given 30 days notice to vacate the disputed

premises in terms of Section 3 of the State Land Recovery of

Possession No. 7 of 1979. There fore it is abundantly clear that

the Learned Magistrate has dismissed the Application of the

Claimant - Appellant, for the ejectment of the Respondent, was

erroneous and on a wrong premis.

Hence I am of the view that the Learned Magistrate's order is

devoid of merits and cannot hold water, and as such I set

aside the said impugned order accordingly.

In dealing with the issue No.2, viz the order of the Learned

High Court Judge, dated 10.11.2014, is crystallized in the

following manner.

Further he had also embarked on a question, whether the High

Court is empowered to deal with any

the state Land arising within the Province.

matters pertaining to

At this juncture it is

applicable provisions

Constitution.

intensely relevant to consider

of the 13th Amendment to

the

the

Article 154p (3) deals with the powers of the Provincial High

Courts.

Every such High Court shall,

13

I

fI

(I

I

)i

I

I I I I

a. Exercise according to law, the original criminal

jurisdiction of the High Court of Sri Lanka in respect of

offences committed within the province.

b. Notwithstanding anything in the Article 138 and subject

to any law, exercise appellate and revisionary jurisdiction

in respect of convictions, sentences and orders entered

or imposed by Magistrate Courts and Primary Courts

within the Province;

c. Exercise such other jurisdiction and powers, as Parliament

may, by law, provide.

Therefore it is crystal clear the matter before this Court is to

decide whether the High Court Judge has decided the issue

that was before him in the correct perspective. The Claimant-

Petitioner- Appellant, tendered an application by way of

Revision against the Order of the Learned Magistrate as stated

above, invoking the Revisionary jurisdiction in terms of Article

154p(3) (b). which has not excluded the power to exercise the

Appellate or revisionary jurisdiction regarding the State Lands.

Therefore in encapsulating the above Article 154 p(3)(b) of the

13th Amendment to the Constitution, I'm of the view that the

impugned order of the Learned High Court Judge is palpably

wrong, and should be set aside forth with.

Nevertheless our Superior Courts had interpreted Article

154p(4)(b) to give effect to the prerogative writs and was of

14

IIrI

fII

II

J

the view the High Court of the Province can issue a writ in

the nature of CERTIORARAI, PROHIBITION, PROCEDENDO,

MANDAMUS,QUO WARRENTO, against any person, exercising,

within the province any power under

1. Any law

2. Any statutes made by the Provincial Council established

for that province,

In respect of any matter set out in the Provincial Council

list.

In the above setting it is abundantly clear that the said

Article of the 13th Amendment to the Constitution has no

relevance to the case in hand.

As stated above the Learned High Court Judge has fortified

his reasons to refuse the Revision application of the Petitioner

on the strength of the case of SOLIAMUTTU RASU.Vs. THE

SUPRINTENDT, STAFFORD ESTATE AND OTHERS S.c. Appeal 21/13

decided 26th September 2013.

But it is intensely relevant to note that the above mentioned

case has no relevance to the case in hand. The Appellants

invoke the revisionary jurisdiction of the High Court to set

aside the order of the Learned Magistrate as stated above, in

terms of Article 154 P(3)(b) and not under Article 154(p)(4) of

the Constitution. Therefore it is abundantly clear that the

Learned High Court Judge has misconstrued the said Article of

15

!

~l

t I

\

J

~I

(

the Constitution and hence the said impugned order should

be vacated.

The Respondents in the instant application has taken up the

objection that the Appellant had delayed in making this

application to the High Court. The Appellant made the revision

application to the High Court Seven months after the impugned

order was made by the Learned Magistrate. It is said that the

said delay was due to the process of obtaining the certified

copies of the relevant documents pertaining to the matter in

issue.

The Appellant had adverted this Court to the fact that

although the Learned High Court Judge dismissed the

Petitioner- Appellant's revision application in limine on the

basis that the Provincial High Court does not have jurisdiction

to act under Article 154P (3)(b) of the Constitution, on

matters relating to the State Land (Recovery of Possession) Act.

The said application was dismissed in limine, in pursuant to the

submissions made by both parties on merits. Further more

this Court too heard both counsel on the law and facts in

order to arrive at a decision in terms of Article 139(1) of the

Constitution.

In the above exposition of the law and facts, this Court is

compel to arrive at the irresistible conclusion that the

impugned orders of the Learned High Court Judge and Learned

1f ,

t ! l

~ I

16 I

~t

I

Magistrate, are palpably wrong and should be set aside. Hence

said orders are vacated, and I allow the appeal accordingly.

Appeal is allowed.

JUDGE OF TIlE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M.Malanie Gunarathne, J

I agree.

JUDGE OF TIlE COURT OF APPEAL

17

I I I ,

t I I

.1

I t I

f' i I I ! i i I

[ I I! I 1