==== BLOCKS ==== 

... IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

C.A. Appeal No.1175/99(F)

Don Lincoln Lionel Wijesinghe

No.179, Hill Street, Dehiwala.

Plaintiff

Vs.

D.C. Mt. Lavinia Case No. 2197/P

1. Hettitantrige Dona Pathmawathie

Mallika Abeygunawardena,

No.178/ 1, Hill Street, Dehiwala.

2. Hettitantrige Dona Sumanawathie

Dharmatilleke,

No.40/3, Attidiya Road, Ratmalana

3. Hettitantrige Dona Suwineetha

Mayurawathie Kapugeekiyana

No.96, Bangalawatte, Pannipitiya

4. Hettitantrige Don Jayantha Sri

Ananda Perera,

5. SUjatha Perera

6. Hettitantrige Don Sumedha Perera

7. Hettitantrige Dona Hashanthi Perera

8. Hettitantrige Dona Krishanthi Perera

All of No. 40/3, Attidiya Road,

Ratmalana

9. Ruby Rosalin Perera

10. Hettitantrige Kapila Haritha Perera

11. Hettitantrige Dona Uditha Manjal..ie

Perera.

'.~.

• 12. Hettitantrige Dona Deepthi Nandika

Perera.

13. Hettitantrige Don Ajith Nandana

Perera.

14. Hettitantrige Dona Uroma

Bandumathie Perera.

All of No.130, Hill Street, Dehiwala

15. Haputantrige Don Ananda Mangala

Meewanaplana

No.21, Huludagoda Road, Mount

Lavinia

16. Haputantrige Dona Indrani Chinta

Devendra Meewanapalana

No.21, Huludagoda Road, Mount

Lavinia

17. Haputantrige Don Ashoka

Chandrawansa Meewanapalana

No.21, Huludagoda Road, Mount

Lavinia

18. Haputantrige Dona ManeI Ranjanie

Wijesiriwardena.

No.21, Huludagoda Road, Mount

Lavinia

19. Haputantrige Dona Shivanthimala

Meewanapalana.

No.21, Huludagoda Road, Mount

Lavinia

20. Don Neville Wijesinghe

No.178, Udupila, Delgoda

21. Don Bernard Wijesinghe (Deceased)

No.587/1D, Thambigewatte,

Madiwela Road, Thalawatugoda

-----CA-T7519g(F}--B.;G.:-Mt.mL~vini~21_21i F' __ A. W·A. Sal9:..ID-L J

~ ~ .. -"-.---.-. ~-.. -.. -.~-.-.. -.-...

--

(deceased)

21A. Lalith Candrasiri Wijesinghe

No. 567/ 1D Tharnbigewatte, Madiwela

Road, Thalawatugoda

22. Wanniarachchige Don Stanley

Tiliekeratne

'Sri Nagar' , Mirihana, Nugegoda.

Defendants

AND

Kandanarachchige Chandra Malani

Gunaratne Batugedara,

Jubilimawatha, Mirihana, Nugegoda.

Substituted 22nd Defendant-

Appellant

Vs.

Don Lincoln Lionel Wijesinghe

No.179, Hill Street, Dehiwala.

Plaintiff-Respondent

1. Hettitantrige Dona Pathmawathie

Mallika Abeygunawardena,

No.178/ 1, Hill Street, Dehiwala.

2. Hettitantrige Dona Sumanawathie

DharmatiUeke,

NoAO/3, Attidiya Road, Dehiwala

3. Hettitantrige Dona Suwineetha

Mayurawathie Kapugeekiyana

No.96, Bangalawatte, Pannipitiya

4. Hettitantrige Don Jayantha Sri

Ananda Perera,

5. Sujatha Perera

-----·--------C~A~-17572-g(Et:J:>-;,G-.-Mt.=Lavinia 2197{P A.W.A.Salarn, J

.. ---~-~~

.' . ,

6. Hettitantrige Don Sumedha Perera

7. Hettitantrige Dona Hashanthi Perera

8. Hettitantrige Dona Krishanthi Perera

All of No. 40/3, Attidiya Road,

Ratmalana

9. Ruby Rosalin Perera

10. Hettitantrige Kapila Haritha Perera

11. Hettitantrige Dona Uditha Manjalie

Perera.

12. Hettitantrige Dona Deepthi Nandika

Perera.

13. Hettitantrige Don Ajith Nandana

Perera.

14. Hettitantrige Dona Uroma

Bandumathie Perera.

All of No.130, Hill Street, Dehiwala

15. Haputantrige Don Ananda Mangala

Meewanapalana

No.21, Huludagoda Road, Mount

Lavinia

16. Haputantrige Dona Indrani Chinta

Devendra Meewanapalana

No.21, Huludagoda Road, Mount

Lavinia

17. Haputantrige Don Ashoka

Chandrawansa Meewanapalana

No.21, Huludagoda Road, Mount

Lavinia

18. Haputantrige Dona ManeI Ranjanie

Wijesiriwardena.

No.21, Huludagoda Road, Mount

Lavinia

-.-----.---.----¥-~---.---- ---

C.A~-175Z9g(F}--B-._<;.-Mt.- Lavinia 2.127IE_A. W.A. Salam, J

----"--~

' ..

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

19. Haputantrige Dona Shivanthimala

Meewanapalana.

No.21, Huludagoda Road, Mount

Lavinia

20. Don Neville Wijesinghe

No.178, Udupila, Delgoda

21A. Lalith Candrasiri Wijesinghe

No. 567/ 1D Thambigewatte, Madiwela

Road, Thalawatugoda

Defendant-Respondents

A. W. A. SALAM, J.

Dr. Sunil Cooray for the substituted 22nd

Defendant-Appellant Gamini Marapana P.C.

with Navin Marapana for the Plain tiff-

Respondent

29.11.2010,21.02.2011, and 01.04.2011

22.08.2011

A. W. A. SALAM, J.

-me plaintiff filed action for partition of Lot H

r depicted in preliminary plan No 681 the identity of

which was undisputed. In terms of the plaint, undivided

rights from and out of the corpus were to be distributed

among the plaintiff and 1 st to 21 st defendants. There was

no contest regarding the devolution of title either.

The 22nd defendant was admittedly not a co-owner of the

corpus but made a party to the action, based on the

purported assertion of title to the whole land on a deed of

gift bearing No 498 dated 12 October 1962 produced as

22D2.

The pivotal question as to whether the 22nd defendant

had acquired a valid prescriptive title to the entire land

was· answered by the trial judge in the negative and

consequently interlocutory decree was entered for

partition of the corpus among the co-owners who were

declared entitled to undivided rights. The parties who

were thus declared entitled as co-owners were the

plaintiff and 1 st to 21 st defendants. Aggrieved by the

interlocutory decree the 22nd defendant has preferred the

present appeal.

The 22nd defendant relied on deed of gift No 498 dated 12

October 1962 produced as 22D2 and his long and

continued possession of the subject matter in proof of his

, .

prescriptive title. By 22D2 Percy Batugedara gifted the

subject matter of the partition action to the 22nd

defendant who incidentally is his son-in-law.

In this background, the real crux of the issue was

whether the 22nd defendant had acquired a valid

prescriptive title to the subject matter of the action as

asserted by him or whether he was a mere licensee of the

plaintiffs predecessors in title as stressed by the plaintiff

and 1 st to 21 st defendants. It was the position of the

plaintiff that the 22nd defendant was the speaker of the

National State Assembly at or around the time he entered

into possession of the corpus and he was a close relative

of the plaintiff. Despite the 22nd defendant was in long

and continued possession, as is accepted by the district

judge there was no semblance of any adverse possession.

Conversely, the 22nd defendant urged that the following

improvements effected by him on the subject matter

ought to have been considered by the learned trial judge

as improvements strengthening his prescriptive claim.

Some of the improvements effected by him are as

follows ...

1. Construction of a retaining wall around. the corpus. 2. Filling the corpus with earth. 3. Construction of a boundary wall with an Iron gate. 4. Landscaping the corpus with two ponds. 5. Construction of a permanent building on the

'---~-----------­

----~

---- ......

corpus consisting of an office room, two other rooms and a kitchen.

It is common ground that Percy Batugedara had no paper title to

lot "H" when he purportedly gifted it to the 22nd defendant on

22D2. As a matter of fact, Percy Batugedara had executed the

deed of gift in favour of the 22nd defendant on 12 October 1962,

barely three years after the demise of Don David. It is to be

observed that no evidence whatsoever was adduced by the 22nd

defendant to establish the prescriptive title of Percy Batugedara

prior to the execution of 22D2. Hence, it is quite appetent that

Percy Batugedara could not have prescribed to the corpus as at

the date of 22D2, although the 22nd defendant had incorrectly

stated in his evidence that Percy Batugedara had prescribed to

the subject matter against Don David.

As far as the deed of gift (22D2) is concerned, a glaring infirmity

appears to be the imprecise nature of the deed which lacks in

clarity. In that deed the Donor has deliberately omitted to recite

his title andj or suppressed the mode of acquisition of title. If

Percy Batugedara had acquired ownership to the subject matter

by reason of his long and prescriptive possession, admittedly

there was nothing that prevented him from reciting the title as

such.

Percy Batugedara was no stranger to transactions relating to

alienation of immovable properties. The 22nd defendant as at the

date of execution of 22D2 was a lawyer. Both of them were aware

-- ~----~-

-~A~175-z9g(FtJ2_~G.-Mt.-L<,winia 2l92LP_ A. W .A,-~alam, J

~-'--.~.~.--~---~,-.-.-~- .. ,~-.-.. --- - ~--

-~ --- ---

. of the death of Don David three years prior to the execution of

22D2. In this background, it remains a complete mystery as to

what made the donor to choose not to make any reference to the

prescriptive possession as the mode of acquisition of his title or

for the failure of the donee to insist on the disclosure of the

donor's title. It is trite law that silent possession without any act

of ouster cannot be construed as adverse possession. In the case

of a licensee mere possession however much exclusive or long-

continued it may be, if silent, no prescriptive benefit would

accrue to him.

As has been submitted by the learned president's counsel

several important principles touching upon the law of

prescription have been succinctly laid down in the celebrated

judgment in Corea Vs Iseris Appuhamy 15 NLR 65. It is thus laid

down where a person enters into possession of land in one

capacity, he is presumed to continue in possession in that same

capacity. The head note of that judgment which applies to

licensees with necessary changes reads as follows ....

"A co-owner's possession is in law the possession of his co-

owners. It is not possible for him to put an end to that

possession by any secret intention in his mind. Nothing

short of ouster or something equivalent to ouster could

bring about that result".

In the case of Thilakaratna Vs Bastian 21 NLR 12 it was held

interalia that where possession of immovable property originally

j

IS not adverse, and in the event of a claim that it had later

become adverse, the onus is on him who asserts adverse

possession to prove it. Then proof should be offered not only of

an intention on his part to possess adversely, but a

manifestation of that intention to the true owner against whom

he sets up his possession.

Quite remarkably, overwhelming evidence had been led in the

original court pointing to the 22nd defendant's possession as

being one of leave and licence under Don David which was later

continued with the permission of the administrator of his estate.

The evidence relating to the leave and licence granted to them

has been accepted by the learned district judge after careful

scrutiny. When the legal principle set out above is applied to the

proved facts in this case, I do not think it can be gainsaid that

the possession of Percy Batugedara and his son-in law is

essentially referable to the lawful right to possess the subject

matter granted by the owner of the subject matter and his agent.

By reason of their having commenced possession of the land in

question in this manner, it is incumbent to presume that they

continued to possess the property in the same capacity. As has

been . submitted by the learned President's counsel, the

possession of the 22nd defendant and his father-in-law should

necessarily be presumed to have continued as licensees or

permISSIve users until they distinctly prove that their title

changed.

i -.-... --.. --.. 1 -------·---···--~Q_::.i~-T7l>L9.gt~t=-~H;~. ·l\4t. L"!.yi!J::~~.2J 971P._I'2'-.W .A. S~li!ll1.d f '." _ .... - ---.. --.. -.' ... ---. -' ... -.

As the 22nd defendant had entered the property as a licensee, the

onus of proving that his possession has become adverse is fairly

and squarely on him and he is expected to establish this by

adducing cogent evidence of ouster. Upon a careful analysis of

the evidence led at the trial including that of the 22nd defendant,

I find it difficult to endorse the view of the 22nd defendant that

the learned trial judge had erred in coming to the conclusion

that the 22nd defendant had not established his prescriptive

claim.

Basically the plaintiffs case was that the two original owners of

the corpus had transferred their rights by P2 to Don David in

the year 1950. Don David and Percy Batugedara were first

cousins and the latter had purchased lot "I" which is the land

immediately adjacent to the corpus on the western boundary

almost at the same time when Don David purchased rights in

the corpus.

The main witness who testified on behalf of the plaintiff at the

trial was one Don Neville Wijesingha. The relationship of

witness Wijesingha is worthy of attention. He is the nephew of

Don David and to be more precise the son of Charlotte Helana

Wijesingha who is a sister of Don David. One of the subscribing

witnesses to P2 was Percy Batugedara who had been asked to

lookafter the property and pay taxes.

Don David had passed away in 1959 and the administrator of

his estate was Neville Wijesingha. No claim has been made by

Percy Batugedara to the corpus during the pendency of the

•

~ testamentary case in which the estate of Don David had been

administered. The learned trial judge has considered the failure

on the part of the 22nd defendant and Percy Batugedara make

such a claim as unfavourable to the prescriptive claim the

former sought to set up in this case.

The 22nd defendant contended that to obtain title by

prescription the possession of the 22nd defendant must be

taken as possession of the owner and not as possession under

the owner, such as tenan t or licensee or some other

subordinate capacity. He claims that the 22nd defendant

commenced his possession with deed of gift No 498 dated 22nd

of October 1962 in his favour and that he entered into

possession as the owner. As his deed is duly registered, the

learned counsel has urged that such registration is notice to

the whole world as to his ownership.

In Corea·v. Iseris Appu (1911) 15 N. L. R .65], the Privy

Council stated the law with regard to prescription among co-

owners in the following terms and the statement of law is

equally applicable to a licensee as well. The relevant passage

from the judgment reads as follows ..

"His possesslOn was In law the possesslOn of his

co-owners. It was not possible for him to put an

end to that possession by any secret intention in his

mind. Nothing short of ouster or something

equivalent to ouster could bring about that result."

t

• Even though 22D2 had been registered at the land registry it

cannot be taken as the Donor or Donee having made their

intention known to the owner. The authorities clearly state that

deeds executed secretively and unknown to the owner cannot

be considered as a starting point in prescription.

As regards the first argument that the 22nd defendant had

entered the subject matter as the owner, it must be emphasized

that he has entered the land as the successor in title of Percy

Batugedara. As such he cannot have or expected to have a

better title than what his predecessor held. Percy Batugedara

was the first cousin of David. The relationship between both of

them was so close that both of them have purchased the two

adjacent lots at one and the same time. Further, Batugedara

has been requested to take the produce, look after the land and

pay the taxes. The learned district judge has accepted this

evidence as being quite probable. The evidence of Neville

Wijesingha had sounded very convincing to the learned district

judge. Having perused evidence of Neville Wijesingha, I am not

inclined to take a different view with regard to the credibility

attached to the evidence of Wijesingha, for the reason that the

learned district judge has heard the witness testifying from the

witness box and observed his demeanour while giving evidence.

If Percy Batugedara was a mere licensee his deed in favour of

the 22nd defendant could only place the latter in the same

capacity as Batugedara was in relation to the land. The mere

.'

registration of the deed in the proper folio cannot be taken as

evidence to strengthen his alleged prescriptive possession.

The learned trial judge has accepted the evidence adduced on

behalf of the plaintiff that Percy Batugedara sought pennission

of Neville Wijesingha, the plaintiffs brother, in the presence of

the 22nd defendant, to put up a temporary garage on the

subject matter of the action. In my view the appellant has not

been able to impress upon this court that the finding of the

learned district judge on that account is incorrect and/or had

ended up in a miscarriage of Justice.

In deciding the issue relating to the leave and licence granted to

the 22nd defendant, the learned district judge has taken into

account the position held by the 22nd defendant, as the speaker

of the National State Assembly and the fact that he was not

only close but an influential and trusted relative of the plaintiff.

This approach of the learned district judge cannot be faulted

when she finally decided the issue relating to prescription.

The 22nd defendant had sought the pennlsslOn of Neville

Wijesingha to dump debris from a building that stood on the

adjacent Lot "I". The 22nd defendant had also sought

pennission to build a boundary wall along the land in suite for

purpose of his own security at a time when his personal

security was an issue. According to the evidence as accepted by

the learned district judge, Neville Wijesingha had no reason to

doubt the bona fides 22nd defendant when he sought pennission

to build the parapet wall around the corpus, as he was the

• speaker of the National State Assembly at the time. As regards

the several occasions on which permission of Neville Wijesingha

had been sought by the 22nd defendant and/or Batugedara and

the consequences have been sufficiently dealt by the learned

district judge.

Undoubtedly the evidence to establish prescription was

slender, despite the length of possession. The facts that

Batugedara was a close relative of Don David and that he was a

signatory to P2, render it rather improbable to make his

possession adverse in the strict sense of the law, particularly

while proceedings to administer the estate of Don David were

yet pending. Although the 22nd defendant has had possession

of the corpus for an uninterrupted period of more than 10

years, such possession when examined in the light of the

circumstances peculiar to this case, cannot be considered as

adverse possession. Moreover the learned trial judge does not

appear· to have in any way misdirected herself, or applied the

wrong standard or test in order to decide whether the

ingredients to constitute adverse possession had been proved.

In the absence of any error in law, which in my opinion, the

22nd defendant has failed to demonstrate, the trial judge's

finding on the disputed issue in no way disturbing or shocks

the sense of right and wrong.

For the foregoing reasons, I am of the opInIOn that the 22nd

defendant is unable succeed on the issue of prescriptive title

and hence his appeal merits no favourable consideration. As

such, I am compelled to affirm the interlocutory decree entered

• in the district court and accordingly dismiss the appeal. The

appellant is entitled to recover the costs of this appeal from the

substituted 22nd defendant-appellant.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Kwk/-