==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an Appeal under Section

755 of the Civil Procedure Code.

1. Niranjan Naganathan

2. Yogendran Naganathan

No.312/1,

Hendala Road,

Wattala.

C.A.Case No. 1214/99lFl 3. P Sudarshan

D.C. IMatalel No.57,

Case No. P 1928 Senanayake Mawatha,

Bandarawela.

Plaintiffs

Vs.

1. Alangar Naganathan

2. Somasegaran Shanmuganathan

Mandawela,

Matale.

1

t I

~

r I I , I !

t ! I Il i I!

[

! t

l i

Jtt!f!

t

\

1.

2.

3.

2

Defendants

Now

2. Somasegaran Shanmuganathan

Mandawela,

Matale.

2nd Defendant Appellant

Vs.

Niranjan Naganathan

Yogendran Naganathan

No.312/1,

Hendala Road,

Wattala.

P Sudarshan

No.57,

Senanayake Mawatha,

Bandarawela.

Plaintiffs Respondent

I

BEFORE P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J

COUNSEL S.D. Yogendra with

! M.G.C.J. Fernando for the ! I ! t

t Defendant Appellant. I

Geffrey Alagarathnam p.e

With H. Seneviratne for the

<' Plaintiff - Respondent. f , i l , t I

ARGUED ON 29.10.2014 III II I DECIDED ON 21.07.2015 I! ! I !

! 3 I i f II

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J

The Plaintiff Respondent instituted this action seeking the termination of the

co-ownership of the land called IIKithulgahamula Hena" and Yayameda Hena"

situated in Mandandawela which is one rood and 24 perches in extent

described the schedule to the Plaint. According to the pedigree set out in the

Plaint, the three Plaintiffs own the rights in equal shares and undivided % of

the building and the 2nd Defendant owns the balance ~th. But the 2nd

Defendant in his statement of claim has stated that Aiyanadan Somasekaran

mentioned in the pedigree of the Plaint constructed the building shown as A in

the Plan No. 2631 and gifted his undivided %th share of the land with the said

house to the 2nd Defendant in 1970. Therefore he has claimed an undivided %th

share of soil rights and the entirety the house shown as A.

At the commencement of the trial the parties have admitted that Alangara

Ammal, Aiyanadan Kanagammal, Aiyanadan Somasekeran, Aiyanadan

Naganadan and Aiyanadan Thyaganadan got the ownership of the subject

matter shown in the Plan No. 2631 by the case No. P 582 of District Court,

Matale. The 1st Plaintiff has given evidence describing the devolution of the

4

!

r I I

t l

\ I

1I

I I1,

I

title of these five persons. Alankara Ammal has transferred her soil rights to

Naganadan by the deed marked P 1. After the demise of the said Alankara

Ammal Kanagammal, Somasundaram, Naganadan and Thyaganadan became

entitled to }{th share of the house. Aiyanadan Kanagammal and Aiyanadan

Somasekeran transferred their soil rights to Aiyanadan Naganadan by the deed

marked as P 2 in 1973. Thyaganadan had sold his soil rights to Aiyanadan

Naganadan in 1963 by the deed marked as P 3. Accordingly, Naganadan

became entitled to the soil rights of the entire land with half share of the

house. The 1st Plaintiff, in his evidence has stated that Somasekeran, father of

the 2

nd Defendant was entitled to half of the house and the soil rights covered

with half share of the house. It is clear that the 1st Plaintiff had believed that

the 2nd Defendant had been in possession of his father's undivided share of the

house and the undivided share of Alankar Ammal. The 1st Plaintiff's claim was,

according to his evidence that half share of the house and the soil covered by

that half share and the balance soil rights were owned by the 3 Plaintiffs in

equal shares. It seems that the Plaintiff has not claimed the balance half share

of the house and the soil covered by the said half share.

The learned District Judge who has rejected the claim of the 2nd Defendant's

undivided }{th share of the subject matter has decides the 2nd Defendant is

entitled only to }{th share of the house and has ordered to the Plaintiff to pay

5

~ f

r I

\ I

tIII Il l Il •i t

I

the value of the half share according to the value of the commissioner's report.

If the learned District Judge had accepted the evidence of the 1st Plaintiff, he

should have allocated half share of the house with the soil covered by it to the

2nd Defendant.

The house marked as A in Plan X is by the main road on the East. Therefore it is

not impractical to divide half share of the house with the soil covered by it. If

the said half share is divided from the northern part of the house, the rights of

the other parties will not be affected. Therefore, this court alters the judgment

of the learned District Judge and decides that the 2

nd Defendant is entitled to

the half share of the house marked A with the soil covered with said half share

and that half share shall be allocated to the 2nd Defendant in the northern part

of the house. The Appeal is dismissed without costs subject to the said

alteration to the judgment.

The judgment altered.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

6

I

\

I{ I 1 l