==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A. 1135/93(F)

M. Razeen Salih No. 1017, Silom Road, Bangkok, Thailand and No.5, Palmyrah Avenue,

Colombo 5.

PLAINTIFF -APPELLANT

D.C Colombo 848311M

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

Sisira de Abrew J. & Anil Gooneratne J.

Vs.

I. Chandra Ukwatta No. 28, Ward Place, Colombo 7. Substituted as legal Representative of the late U.K. Edmund

2. MacCallum Breweries (Ceylon) Ltd., No. 299, Union Place, Colombo 2.

DEFENDANTS-RESPONDENTS

Romesh de Silva P.C with Sugath Caldera for the Plaintiff-Appellant

Dr. Harsha Cabral P.C with Illangatilaka F or Defendant-Respondents

10.12.2010

2

DECIDED ON: 22.02.2011

GOONERA TNE J.

This was an action filed in the District Court of Colombo by a

non-resident about 3 decades ago based on an agreement (marked 'A'

annexed to the plaint) entered on or about 5th March 1975 for the sale of

27,500 ordinary shares in Ceylon Hotels Limited for a purchase price of Rs.

4,750,0001-. It is pleaded that the Plaintiff-Appellant was the registered

holder of 27508 shares in Ceylon Hotels Limited. The facts relevant to the

case is simply that the Plaintiff-Appellant having transferred the full 27,500

shares to the Defendants, only part payment was paid. The action in the

District Court was to recover the balance due on the sale of shares being a

sum ofRs. 1,999,2001-.

The Appeal before us is on the dismissal of the plaintiffs action

by the District Court on 7.9.1993. In the answer filed by the Defendants,

they deny liability to pay the said sum for the reason that permission which

was required for the above sale of shares from the Controller of Exchange

and permission was given subject to the condition that purchase price be

reduced to Rs. 2,750,8001- which permitted price was paid by the Defendant.

3

The matter that needs to be decided in this appeal is whether

Plaintiff- Appellant is entitled to the balance sum, and more particularly, the

statutory provisions which empowers the Controller of Exchange to

determine a purchase price for the sale of shares would be different to the

price agreed upon by the parties to the action and whether statutory

provisions do not extend to granting of permission to transfer shares

involving payment of local currency not contravening provision of the

Exchange Control Law. The admissions recorded at the trial indicates that

there was no denial of agreement marked 'A' (PI) annexed to the plaint, the

part payment (Rs. 2,750,8001-) as aforesaid and that transfer of shares to the

2nd Defendant as in paragraph 5 of plaint. In the petition of Appeal filed

against the Judgment of the District Court, there is also reference to a letter

dated 22.12.1980, (PI) the contents of which briefly are as follows:

(i) Minister has no objection for payment of the price agreed upon as long as no

part of the price is remitted abroad.

(ii) The above decision conveyed to Deputy Governor of the Central Bank.

Parties proceeded to trial on 7 issues. Plaintiff has suggested only

issue No.( 1). I find that there is no consequential issue suggested on issue

No.( 1). It is the District Judge who should frame the issues in an acceptable

manner. Issue No.(l) refer to balance payment based on agreement PI. Issue

No. (2) raised by the Defendant's state that only an amount of

4

Rs. 27,50,8001- approved by the Controller of Exchange need to be paid.

Issue No.4 refer to the letter of 75.09.05 of the Controller (Dl E)l) which is

final and conclusive. Issue No. (5) refer to the date in the above letter which

is final and that Defendant acted upon same. Based on issues (4) & (5) issue

No. (6) is suggested to the effect that Plaintiff is estopped in making any

claim. Issue No. (7) is on prescription, which the learned District Judge did

not wish to answer in view of his judgment and answers to other issues.

The agreement in question, transfer of shares and part payment

by the Defendants are all matters not in issue. Exchange Control Act confers

powers on the Central Bank and impose certain duties, which spread over on

a variety of matters, which seeks to place restrictions in relation to gold,

currency, payments, securities, debts and import, export etc. (as in the

preamble). Central Bank is the sole authority under the Act to administer the

provisions of the Act. Therefore one cannot conclude that the case in hand

does not involve any foreign exchange transactions and be satisfied only in

that respect. The provisions of the said act cannot be taken lightly especially

when the transaction involves a non-resident. The interpretation section (54)

of the said Act defines securities to include shares etc.

The burden of proof at the trial was on the Defendant and

evidence of a Deputy Controller of Central Bank was led by Defendant. The

5

Defence-Witness has in his evidence stated that transaction of this nature

involving shares by a non-resident were subject to Exchange Control Laws.

This evidence and document D 1 marked through the witness was un

contradicted. D1 is an application made by Messrs Forbes and Walkers who

were the brokers who sought approval from the Controller on behalf of the

Plaintiff-Appellant. Examination of document D1 makes it clear. The

reverse of D 1 indicates that permission was granted for only a certain sum of

money which was duly paid by Defendant-Respondents (D1A). As such

Plaintiff- Appellant cannot now take up the position that he was unaware of

such an application (D1). Defendant's witness also state that he is unaware

of any transaction based on document Pl.

The evidence on D 1 and D2 has been considered by the learned

District Judge and he has given his mind to the above stated matters. Trial

Court Judge in this regard has considered Section 45 & 46 of the said Act.

Section 45 & 46 reads thus:

45. Every decision of the bank to grant or refuse any permission under this Act, or to

revoke any permission which has been so granted, or to rescind, add to or vary

any conditions or to extend or reduce any time limit to which the permission

granted is subject, shall be communicated in writing by the bank to the person by

whom application for the permission was made or, as the case may be, to whom

the permission was granted.

6

46. A person in regard to whom the bank makes a decision under this Act may, if he

is dissatisfied with that decision, make a written appeal against he decision to the

Minister within ten day s after that decision is communicated to him.

Trial Judge also refer to the finality aspect of the decision of the

Central Bank. Section 47 enacts finality of decision by the Bank. It is also

apparent that there was no appeal from document Dl within the stipulated

period of 10 days. As such I am unable to disagree with the views of the

District Judge on the above stated matters.

Unlike applications for Judicial review by way of a prerogative

writ, the ouster clause as contained above in Section 47 of the Act cannot be

ignored. In an writ application one could challenge the ouster clause on the

basis that order is 'ex facie' outside the powers of the authority or on a

breach of natural justice. This being an appeal Trial Judge's views on

finality clause need not be disturbed. The position of the framers of the

Exchange Control Act which could only bind the original court as stated by

Justice Wanasundara in Abeywickrema Vs. Pathirana 1986 (1) SLR at a82 ..

was that the public service must be made the exclusive domain of the

Executive without interference from courts. This remark was made by

Justice Wanasundara only to explain the attitude of the legislature which of

course does not bind the Appellate Courts.

7

On a perusal of the proceedings, Plaintiff s I st witness was not

able to identify his signature in document PI relied upon heavily by

Plaintiff. The file maintained relating to document PI was not produced as

same was not available. It was the 2nd witness for Plaintiff who identified the

signature in PI. However the circumstances as to how PI emerged was not

in evidence since the relevant file was not available.

The learned District Judge takes the view that no appeal was

made to the Minister within the 10 day stipulated period. He further state

that PI refer to a discussion and it was not an appeal as required by the

Statute. Judge refers to the dates in Dl & PI and refer to lapse of long

period.

The learned District Judge's following observations of letter PI

are relevant.

ere>~o ~ erz;rn@rn 1975 @z;co 12 @e>B) ~e5)U). e5)~rn 1980 @~~z;®Q)6 22 @e>B)

~e5) @(3)J 1980 erd@ 16 @e>B) ~e5) @(3)J (5)rn E)C)&l) aU) ~e5) 10 &l»@U)&l5 @e5)e>

er~z;~ (5)e5)e5)e>&l) &l»@U)&l5 (5)0) E) erz;rn ere>cSO)e>&l5 (3)Z;C)U)C) @O»@rn

OZ;(3)Z;~@e> @Oe) 00. @® @8U)C) er~ oz;@z;rIn@ooz; C~(3) ooesS@esS erz;@rn

e>oU)C) ereoco)e>~&l5 50@® ~e»@e>esS ~(3) a&l5 @&l»esS@~sU)&l5 @O) erz;@rn

e>oU) C) ~~@ @(5)E)@C) a&l)(5) E)@@esS O)@esS@cs) 46 @e>B) e>(5)esS~d

er~~O»~esS (i)~ 00 erz;O)z;co @o~@C)U). ~SU)® ere>cSO)e>&l) erZ;@eDe>oU)C)

8

I have considered the judgment of the Original Court,

especially the Trial Judge's views on document PI. The following points

need to be expressed on the said document.

(a) The reference made to letter of 16.4.1980 in PI not produced before the original

Court. There is no clue on same.

(b) File relevant to issue of PI not made available or evidence based on it not

adduced. As such no evidence transpired on same at least to understand the

circumstance on which PI emerged other than a discussion. An official witness

need to give evidence based on departmental files. It was not done.

(c) Authority of Minister concerned is in doubt to issue PI. No material placed to

indicate any statutory provisions based on Pl.

(d) Long time lapse between Dl and PI (5 years)

We have considered the case of both parties and the Written

Submissions. It is too late to advert to the fact that an admission was not

recorded of non-residence of Plaintiff-Appellant. This fact was never urged

in the Original Court and it is somewhat misleading when one looks at the

entirety of the plaint especially paragraph 4 and agreement marked' A' with

the plaint. Vide terms/condition 2 of agreement 'A' state payment to be paid

in Sri Lankan rupees to the credit of a non-resident block account. A party

cannot approbate and reprobate the same transaction.

9

20 N.L.R. at 124 ...

When one party ... is permitted to remove the blind which hides the real

transaction ..... the maxim applies that a man cannot both affirm and disaffirm the

same transaction, show its true nature for his own relief, and insist upon its

apparent character to prejudice his adversary .... The maxim is founded not so

much on any positive law as on the broad and universally applicable principles of

justice."

The evidence of Plaintiff-Appellant was very brief other than a

long line of questions to prove signature in PI and comparison of P 1 with P2

& P3, to identify signature. In contrast Defendant's evidence was on point to

establish issue Nos. (2) -(6) and as such version of the Defendant-

Respondents becomes more probable. In fact the defence version was

supported by statutory provisions, namely Exchange Control Act. Plaintiff-

Appellant does not rely on any statutory provisions but only argue that the

above statute has no application to the facts of this case. I am unable to agree

with the Plaintiff-Appellant on that argument.

The Exchange Control Act was enacted not only to control

payment of money out side Sri Lanka. This is a wrong notion. Act includes

several parts and considers a variety of restrictions. Part II relate to payments

Section 7 reads thus:

10

Except with the permission of the bank no person shall in Sri Lanka -

(a) make any payment to or for the credit of a person resident outside Sri Lanka, or

(b) make any payment to or for the credit of a person resident in Sri Lanka by order

or on behalf of a person resident outside Sri Lanka, or

( c) place or hold any sum to the credit of any person resident outside Sri Lanka.

Provided that where a person resident outside Sri Lanka has paid a sum in or

towards the satisfaction of a debt due from him, paragraph (c) of this section shall not

prohibit the acknowledgement or recording of the payment.

District Judge very correctly understood the contents of letter

PI and it's validity in law. Permission of Exchange Controller was always

essential for the transaction concerned. In the Written Submission of

Appellant it is suggested of an inquiry for which he was not a party, held by

the Exchange Controller. We are not in a position to accept such a

submission in the absence of an iota of evidence in this regard by the

Plaintiff-Appellant in the Original Court. The several lapses of the Appellant

cannot be cured by making allegations in this way without a base, and from

the point of issuance of document D 1 to the Brokers, one cannot plead

Ignorance of an inquiry. In the absence of an appeal or challenge to

document DI at the proper stage as required by law, the Plaintiff-

Appellant's argument as contained in the Written Submissions would fail.

11

I am in agreement with the following submissions of the

Defendant Respondent.

( a) Section 7 of the said Act makes no distinction as regards monies paid out

side or inside Sri Lanka if the person concerned is a non resident.

Permission of the Controller of Exchange is essential

(b) Further payment or balance payment would be illegal.

(c) Failure to appeal under section 46 of the Act makes the decision final

under Section 47 of the Act.

(d) PI indicates only a discussion which also confirm a delay of more than 4

years and 7 months from issuance of D I

(e) Defendant's above conduct results in estoppel accruing for the benefit of

the Defendants and thus prevents Plaintiff-Appellant suing for the balance

sum.

When we consider the entirety of this case there are two principles

of law that cannot be easily ignored i.e illegality and estoppel. Further

performance of the contract disregarding Exchange Control Act amounts to

illegality. I would refer to the following authorities to demonstrate illegality.

"The illegality of a Contract would ordinarily result in its voidance. It would more

over attract an age old principle - in pari delictioo potior est conditio defenentis by

virtue of which a party to an illegal contract is denied the assistance of a court of

law .... "

Justice C. G Weeramantry - The Law of Contracts - General Principles.

The same sentiment was solidly laid down, by Lord Wilmot CJ in Collins v Blantern,

"This is a contract to tempt a man to transgress the law, to do that which is injurious

to the community. It is void by common law, and the reason why the common law

says such contracts are void, is for the public good: You shall not stipulate for

12

iniquity. All writers upon our law Ex agree in this, that no polluted hand, shall touch

the pure fountain of Justice. Whoever is a party to an unlawful contract, if he has once

paid the money, stipulated to be paid in pursuance thereof, he shall not have the help

of a Court to fetch it back again, you shall not have the right of action when you come

in to a Court of Justice in this unclean manner to recover it back. Procul O! Procul

esse profane".

Per Lord Wilmot CJ in Collins v Blantem (1767)

The Plaintiff-Appellant's failure to Appeal from the decision

contained in document D 1, which attracts finality to such decision would

give rise to the doctrine of estoppel. Plaintiff-Appellant subsequent to issue

of D 1 never took any steps in terms of the statute. He cannot rely on

document PI (after a lapse of 5 years from D 1) for relief.

An estoppel will arise where the person who makes the representation so conduct

himself that a reasonable man would take the representation to be true and believe

that it was intended to be acted upon. 16 N.L.R. at 125; 25 N.L.R. at 206. To establish

an estoppel it must be proved that the action taken by the party seeking to establish

the estoppel was directly connected with the false impression caused by the

representation or conduct of the party sought to the estopped. The representation or

the conduct must be, in effect, an invitation to the party affected by it to do a

particular act. But it need not be proved that the party sought to be estopped knew the

truth about the facts which he by his statement or his conduct misrepresented. 21

NLR360.

I I

\ I ! I I

1 I ! I <j

j !

1 I I I I ~ 1 I l I I , l I l , i I I I j I I I I

1

<1 1

\

4

13

In all the above circumstances we dismiss the Appeal, without

costs.

Appeal dismissed.

CB~Ck~jJ~

JUDGE OF THE COURT 'OF APPEAL

Sisira de Abrew J.

I agree.

~~cI·i -~ JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

i I ! I r I t i ,

t I I f ! I i J

i 1 I l