==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

CA (Writ Application No.330/12

In the matter of an application for a mandate

in the nature of writ of Certiorari in terms of

the provisions of Article 140 of the

Constitution of the Democratic Socialist

Republic of Sri Lanka

Rupahinge Gunaratne, Mihirigaldola,

Pahala Karawita.

Petitioner

Vs.

1. Madara Swarnamalee Wijewardena

Thennakoon, Ransinawatte

Walawwa,

Uda Karawita.

2. National Gem and Jewellery

Authority

No.25, Galle Face Terrace,

Colombo3.

3. Prasad Galhena,

The Chairman,

National Gem and Jewellery

Authority,

No.25, Galle Face Terrace,

Colombo3.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued on

Decided on

2

4. N.P. Samaratunga

Senior Regional Manager, National

Gem And Jewellery Authority,

Regional Office,

Ratnapura.

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

MALINIE GUNARATNE, J

Respondents

Gamini Marapane P.C with Navin Marapane,

for the Petitioner.

R.M.D. Bandara with Dinush Liyanage and Lalith de Silva

for the 1st Respondent,

Chaya Sri Namuni SC

2nd to 4th Respondent.

25.06.2013

12.07.2013

S.Sriskandarajah,J

The 1st Respondent applied for a gemming licence on the 30th of April2011 in

relation to the land called and known as "Peelikumbura". She with her application

submitted the following documents to the 2nd Respondent:

a) A copy of Final Village Supplementary Tenement List V.P39 Lot 1087,

to show Douglas Tennekoon the father of the 1st Respondent was the

claimant of "Peelikumbura".

3

b) A copy of the gazette dated 18.08.1980 whereby the Land Reform

Commission had given the said land to the 1st Respondent's father by

way of statutory determination.

c) A copy of the pedigree certified by a notary as required by the

Regulation of the Gem and Jewellery Authority,

d) The birth certificate of the 1st Respondent,

e) The death certificate of her father Douglas Tennakoon,

f) An affidavit affirming the manner in which she is entitled to the said

land.

g) Letter from the Agrarian Services Department giving permission in

terms of the provisions of the Agrarian Development Act.

After the receipt of the application with the necessary documents a public notice

was issued by the 2nd Respondent informing the issue of the licence and called for

objections. As no objection was received, the 2nd Respondent after considering the

application and documents issued a licence to the 1st Respondent on 12.05.2011.

The Petitioner made a complaint to the 2nd Respondent on 26.05.2011and

objected to the issuance of a gemming licence to the 1st Respondent. He claimed that he

had obtained title from Douglas Tennakoon to the said land "Peelikumbura" by deed of

transfer No 3648 dated 6th December 1979 of an undivided 13/32 share of Lot 2 of Plan

No1163 of licensed surveyor S.Ramakrishna and had claimed that by the said deed the

Petitioner has more than 2j3rd share in the said land and, therefore, a licence cannot be

issued to the 1st Respondent. After this objection the parties were summoned for an

inquiry and, after obtaining written submissions from both parties, the inquiring officer

considered the title of the 1st Respondent derived from statutory determination, and the

Petitioner's title that was claimed under the deed bearing No.3648 dated 6th December

1979, read with the doctrine exceptio rei venditae et traditae, the inquiry officer decided to

4

recommend the issue of licence to the 1st Respondent and rejected the objection of the

petitioner with reasons this decision was communicated to all the parties by letter dated

6.12.2011. On 7.12.2011 the 1st Respondent on the request of the 2nd Respondent entered

into a bond to deposit 5/24 of the sale of gems from the said land in favour of the

Petitioner and on this condition licence No 6448 was issued to the 1st Respondent.

The licence of the 1st Respondent was to expire on 11.05.2012, the 1st Respondent,

by letter dated 01.04.2012 sought to extent the said licence and it was approved and a

new licence No 8529 was issued on 2.05.2012 valid until 22.04.2013. The Petitioner

challenged the issuance of this licence by letter dated 10.09.2012 and requested for an

inquiry and in the mean time to suspend the license. The licence was suspended

temporarily in order to give a hearing to the objection. After a due inquiry and after

considering the facts and the documents submitted, the 2nd Respondent decided to

remove the temporary suspension of the licence of the 1st Respondent. This decision

was communicated by letter dated 19.10.2012.

The Petitioner in this application has sought a writ of certiorari to quash the

decision of the 2nd, 3rd and 4th Respondents to issue a licence bearing No.8529 to the pt

Respondent to gem in the land called and known as "Peelikumbura". The Petitioner

has also sought a writ of certiorari to quash the decision contained in letter dated

19/10/1912, to revalidate the said licence issued to the 1st Respondent.

The Petitioner submitted that he is the owner of an undivided of 36/59 shares in

the land called and known as Peelikumbura and an action to partition the said land

called Peelikumbura had been filed in the District Court of Ratnapura bearing

No.12375/P. The said action had been instituted in the year 1994, and it is pending in

that court. The 1st Respondent also claims title to an undivided share of 19/24 in the

said land. According to the Petitioner, Douglas Tennekoon was the sole owner of the

said land and he had declared the said land to the Land Reform Commission as a land

5

in excess of 50 acres, and at the time of selling the said land to the Petitioner, he was

only a statutory lessee. The Petitioner also admitted that at the time of the execution of

the deed No.3648 dated 6/12/1979, Douglas Tennekoon, the Vendor does not have title

to the said property as it was vested with the Land Reform Commission. The position

of the Petitioner is that subsequently the Vendor, Douglas Tennekoon, has got a

statutory determination in relation to the said land and in view of that fact, applying the

doctrine exceptio rei venditae et traditae, the Petitioner has got title to the said land based

on the earlier transfer deed bearing No.3648 dated 6/12/1979.

The 1st Respondent has claimed an undivided 19/24 shares of the said land in the

Statement of Claim filed in the partition action instituted to partition the said land. The

3rd Respondent submitted that a licence to gem in the 1st Respondent's land was issued

to the 1st Respondent after a due inquiry, and after satisfying that the 1st Respondent

had 2/3 share of the land, based on a statutory determination made by the Land Reform

Commission in terms of the Land Reform Law in favour of Douglas Tennekoon in the

year 1980 and the 1st Respondent has inherited the title so obtained by the said Douglas

Tennekoon.

The Petitioner and the 1st Respondent had made conflicting claims to the

ownership of the said land before the 2nd Respondent. When these claims were put

before the 2nd Respondent, the 2nd Respondent has called for objections and written

submissions from both parties and had given due consideration to the documents

placed before him. The Petitioner has not got a declaration from a competent civil

Court that the doctrine exceptio rei venditae et traditae, applies to him in the given

circumstances and thereby the said deed bearing No.3648 dated 6/12/1979 has got

revalidated or valid. When the 2nd Respondent was considering the claim of the

Petitioner the Petitioner was having only the said deed and claiming his title before the

2nd Respondent based on the said doctrine. It is common ground that the said doctrine

does not apply to cases of similar nature in all circumstances. For example the plea of

6

exceptio rei venditae et traditae is not available when there is a settlement order under the

Land Settlement Ordinance; Periacaruppen Chettiar,v Messers.Proprietors and Agents, Ltd.,

47 NLR 121.

The said doctrine is applicable only in circumstances where a property was sold by a

person who had no title subsequently acquires title. The application of this doctrine has

to be considered in the light of the intervention of the Land Reform Law this can only

be done by a competent civil court and not by an administrator performing function

under a statute. The Petitioner has not got an order of Court declaring that the

Petitioner is entitled to get the benefit of the said doctrine and thereby the original

transfer by the said Deed No 3648 dated 6/12/1997 is validated. In these circumstances

the 2nd Respondent, as it is not a competent Court to decide legal issues, has to rely on

documents that were placed before it and has to interpret the documents as they were,

and for the 2nd Respondent, the said deed bearing No.3648 dated 6/12/1979 was

executed by Douglas Tennekoon as a statutory Lessee, and a Statutory Lessee has no

right to transfer a property under the Land Reform Law and, therefore, the 2nd

Respondent has correctly come to the conclusion, that the Petitioner has no title to rely

upon under the said deed. The 1st Respondent's claim was that he has got title as an

heir of Douglas Tennekoon and that the said land was given to Douglas Tennekoon

after a statutory determination.

The 2nd Respondent is a statutory authority to determine the issuance of licence

for gemming, it is not a competent body to decide on questions of law, but on the face

of the documents submitted to the 2nd Respondent, the 2nd Respondent has come to a

finding that the 1st Respondent's title could be accepted on the face of it, and the

Petitioner's title on the deed bearing No.3648 dated 6th December 1979, cannot be

accepted. One cannot expect a statutory body which determines the issuance of licence

to interpret documents applying doctrines and legal principles, but it has to rely on the

face of the documents when acting on it, and any party claiming a title which is not

7

apparent on the face of it, has to get a declaration from a competent Court to satisfy the

authority that acts on documentary evidence. In the given circumstances the 2nd

Respondent has acted within its powers and has rejected the submissions made by the

Petitioner and issued licence to the 1st Respondent. The 2nd Respondent after taking

into consideration of the claim of the 1st Respondent that he is entitled only 19/24 share

of the land, it has directed the 1st Respondent to enter into a bond to deposit 5/24 of

the sale of gems from the said land in favour of the Petitioner, and the licence was

issued to the 1st Respondent.

As the Petitioner has not established her title to the satisfaction of the 2nd

Respondent, whereas the 1st Respondent has established his title to the satisfaction of

the 2nd Respondent, the 2nd Respondent is entitled to act on the 1st Respondent's

documents and issue the licence. In these circumstances this court cannot hold that the

2nd Respondent has acted illegally or irrationally and at the same time the 2nd

Respondent has acted fairly by giving a fair hearing to both parties and, therefore, the

decision of the 2nd respondent to issue licence to the 1st Respondent and to renew the

same thereafter cannot be challenged by a writ of certiorari.

The Petitioner also has raised an objection on the issue of licence on the ground

that the internal circular issued by the 2nd Respondent has specifically stated that when

a partition action is pending and a lis pendens is produced, the 2nd Respondent cannot

entertain an application for gemming in the said land. In this case there was a partition

action pending when the 1st Respondent made an application for gemming licence and,

therefore, the Petitioner contended that the 2nd Respondent should not have issued a

licence to the 1st Respondent.

The 2nd Respondent contended that the circular relied upon by the Petitioner is

an internal circular which is issued for the guidance of the Inquiring Officer to arrive at

a findings to issue licence. It is not a rule or regulation that will have a binding effect

8

or, it is not having a statutory flavour or statutory under pinning. Therefore, a violation

of this internal circular will not give rise to an act of illegality for a court to quash the

said violation but, in any event, the 2nd Respondent submitted that the 2nd Respondent

has not violated the said internal circular as it was not brought to the notice of the 2nd

Respondent that a lis pendens was filed in relation to the said land.

For the above reasons the 2nd Respondent has neither acted illegally nor

irrationally and, as the 2nd Respondent has acted fairly in the given circumstances, a

writ of certiorari will not lie to quash the licence issued to the 1st Respondent by the 2nd

Respondent. For the above reasons this Court dismisses this application without costs.

President of the Court of Appeal

Malinie Gunaratne, J,

I agree,

Judge of the Court of Appeal

i