==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Sellaiya Sribalan

Accused-Petitioner

CA (PHC) APN 09/2012 HC Colombo 9887/99

Before

Counsel

Argued on Decided on

The Attorney General

Respondent

Sisira de Abrew J & Deepali Wijesundara J

Dr. Ranjith Fernando with S. Rajapakshe for the Petitioner.

SSC Gihan Kulatunga for the Attorney General.

16.03.2012 29.03.2012

Sisira de Abrew J.

When this matter was taken up on 14.2.2012 Court directed

Counsel for the accused petitioner to support petition with notice to the

Attorney General.

The Attorney General forwarded an indictment against the

accused petitioner to the High Court of Colombo under Section 386 of the

Penal Code. Later the prosecuting State Counsel moved the High Court to

amend the indictment by adding five charges under Section 25 of the Debt

Recovery (Special Provisions) Act 2 of 1990 as amended by Act No.4 of

1994. Learned defence counsel objected to the said application on the

f

~

~

2

ground that the High Court had no jurisdiction to try offences under the Debt

Recovery (Special Provisions) Act as the Magistrate's Court (MC) is vested

with jurisdiction to try the said offences in terms of the said Act. Learned

High Court Judge (HCJ) by his order dated 4.11.2011 overruled the

objection. Being aggrieved by the said order, the accused petitioner has filed

the present petition moving to set aside the said order.

Learned counsel for the accused petitioner contended that the High

Court had no jurisdiction to try offences under Section 25 of the Debt

Recovery (Special Provisions) Act 2 of 1990 as amended by Act No.4 of

1994 as the Act specifically confers jurisdiction to the MC to try the said

offences. I now advert to this contention. When considering the said

contention it is relevant to consider section 11 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure Act No 15 of 1979 (CCP) which reads as follows:

"Any offence under any law other than the Penal Code whether committed

before or after the appointed date shall be tried save as otherwise specially

provided for in any other law-

(a) where a court is mentioned in that behalf in that law-

(i) by the High Court where the court mentioned is the High Court

or in relation to an offence punishable with imprisonment for a

term exceeding two years or with a fine exceeding one thousand

five hundred rupees, the court mentioned is the District Court.

(ii) by a Magistrate's Court where the court mentioned is the

Magistrate's Court or in relation to an offence punishable with

imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or with a fine

not exceeding one thousand five hundred rupees, the court

•

3

mentioned is the District Court.

(b) omitted."

This section can be considered in favour of the contention of

learned counsel for the accused petitioner. But before arriving at such a

conclusion I must consider Section 393 (7) of the CCP which reads as

follows:

"Notwithstanding any other provisions contained in this Act, It shall be

lawful for the Attorney General, having regard to the nature of the offence or

any other circumstances, in respect of any summery offence-

(a) to forward an indictment directly to the High Court, or

(b) to direct the Magistrate to hold a preliminary inquiry in accordance

with the procedure set out in Chapter XV in respect of any offence

specified by him where he is of opinion that the evidence recorded at

a preliminary inquiry will be necessary for preparing an indictment;

and thereupon such offence shall not be triable by a Magistrate's Court."

When one considers this section it is clear that the Attorney General

has the power to forward an indictment to the High Court in respect of a

summery offence and when such an indictment is forwarded, the Magistrate

has no power to try such an offence. What is a summery offence? Summery

offence is defined in Section 2 of the CCP. 'Summery offence' means an

offence triable by a Magistrate's Court (vide section 2 of the CCP). In this

connection it is relevant to consider Section 9(1) of the Judicature Act which

reads as follows.

I

!

~ I fII,I[

~ ftIIII

I f

4

"The High Court shall ordinarily have the power and authority and is hereby

required to hear, try and determine in the manner provided for by written

law all prosecutions on indictment instituted therein against any person in

respect of-

(a) any offence wholly or partly committed in Sri Lanka,

(b) omitted

(c) Omitted

(d) Omitted

(e) Omitted

(f) Omitted"

When the above legal provisions are considered, I hold the view

that the Attorney General has the power to send an indictment to the High

Court in respect of a summery offence (an offence triable by the Magistrate)

and when such an indictment is forwarded, the High Court Judge has the

power to hear, try and determine the case and that the Magistrate loses

jurisdiction to hear such a case. In the instant case the learned prosecuting

State Counsel moved to add charges by amending the indictment. These

charges, according to the Debt Recovery (Special Provisions) Act, are

summery offences. But according to the above conclusion reached by me the

Attorney General has the power to forward an indictment to the High Court

in respect of summery offences and thereafter it becomes the duty of the

HCJ to hear, try and determine the case. For these reasons, I hold that when

an indictment is forwarded by the Attorney General to the High Court in

respect of offences triable by the Magistrate, the HCJ has jurisdiction to

hear, try and determine such cases. For the above reasons I reject the

contention of learned counsel for the accused petitioner and affirm the order

5

~ of the learned HCJ dated 14.11.2011. I therefore refuse~to issue notice on C the respondents and dismiss the petition.

Wijesundara J

I agree. ~~

Judge of the Court of Appeal.