==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

c.A. 836/2008 (Writ)

1A.

1.

2.

Namunukula Plantations PLC

(Previously of known as Namunukula

Plantations Limited)

310, High Level Road, Navinna.

Maharagama.

PETITIONER

Vs.

D. M. Jayaratne

Minister of Plantation Industries

Ministry of Plantation Industries

No. 55/75, Vauxhall Lane,

Colombo 2.

Mahinda Samarasinghe

Minister of Plantation Industries

Ministry of Plantation Industries

No. 55/75, Vauxhall Lane,

Colombo 2.

U. G. Vidura Kariyawasam

Divisional Secretary,

Hikkaduwa.

2A. Damayanthi Paranagama

Divisional Secretary

Divisional Secretary,

Hikkaduwa.

1

Ii IiI

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Deepali Wijesundera J.

3.

4.

5.

Sri Lanka State Plantations Corporatior.

No. 28, Mudalige Mawatha,

No. 28, Mudalige Mawatha.

Colombo 1.

S. A. D. Suraweera

Director (Lands)

Ministry of Agriculture Development

"Govijanamandiraya"

80/5, Rajamal Watte Patumaga,

Battaramulla.

The Land Reform Commission

No. C 82,

Hector Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,

(Gregory's Avenue),

Colombo 7.

RESPONDENTS

Kushan de Alwis P.c. with Ayendra Wickremasinghe

For the Petitioner

Milinda Gunatilleke D.S.G., for the 1st - 4th Respondents

Dr. Coo ray for the 5th Respondent

19.07.2013

08.11.2013

i , •,2

i

r

3

GOONERATNE J.

I

\ l

The Petitioner, Namunukula Plantation PLC has sought a Writ of

Mandamus as per sub paragraph fb' of the prayer to the petition. i.e to regularize

the procedure set out in document P7A (Cabinet Memorandum of 1/2/2005) and

P7B (letter of Plantation Ministry to several Government Officials and Chairman

LRC dated February 2005 and to pay compensation). This application for a Writ of

Mandamus was filed on or about October 2008. In the petition it is pleaded that

land called fGalagodawatte' in extent of 244 Hectares had been acquired by P1

(Section 38 notice under the Land Acquisition Act issued on or about 28.7.1 rl72).

It is pleaded that the said land was not used for a public purpose and ownership

transferred to the 5th Respondent Commission which vested the management in

the Janawasama Corporation, and by 3.3.1980 Janawasama Corporation

transferred the management to the 3rd Respondent Corporation who

amalgamated Galgodawatte division with the adjacent Monrovia estate(P2 & P3).

The Petitioner Company along with other plantation companies in

the year 1992, were incorporated to carryon managerial functions of several of

3rd Respondent Corporation estates, and by P4 management of Monrovia Estate

(

(

I

1

4

including Galagodawatte was conferred on the Petitioner Company. Theredfter

the 3rd Respondent was vested with ownership (PS). The 3rd Respondent entered

into a lease agreement of the above mentioned estates and Petitioner Company

continued to remain in possession (P6A & P6B).

There is emphasis by the Petitioner Company to clause 3(d} of the

indenture of lease (enclosed in P6A) and thereby attempt to demonstrate that

Petitioner would be entitled to compensation in the event of acquisition ov" the

lease property being released. This seems to be the grievance of the Petitioner

who relies on documents P7A & P7B to get compensation. In this regard I would

refer to paragraphs 9(a} to (c) and 10/11 of the Petition as follows:

(a) On or about 01.02.2005, a Cabinet paper bearing number No: 8/2005 was presented to

the Cabinet of Ministers by the 1st Respondent for approval, proposing to take

possession of, inter alia, certain lands which were vested in the Land Reform

Commission and have been leased out to regional plantation companies for the purpose

of resettling families who were affected by the Tsunami.

(b) The Petitioner states that the said Cabinet paper submitted by the 1st Respondent

specified clearly that the aforesaid plantation companies ought to be compensated in

respect of their lease hold rights and also specifies in detail the manner and procedure

in which the said compensation is to be assessed and paid to the said plantation

companies.

(c) The Petitioner states that these proposals were approved by the Cabinet of Ministers on

or about 10.02.2005 and was duly communicated to all the District Secretaries by the 1st

Respondent specifying the aforesaid manner in which compensation is to be paid to the

5

plantation companies in respect of the lease hold rights which they have over the land

in question .

. (d) Prior to this on or about 20.01.2005, the Petitioner was requested to attempt a meeting

at the Galle District Secretariat Office, which was chaired by the 1st Respondent. At the

said meeting, the representatives of the Petitioner Company were requested to release

the aforesaid Galagodawatte Division for the purpose of resettling families who Nere

affected by the Tsunami and it was stated that the Petitioner in return will be duly

compensated upon a claim being made for the same.

(e) The Petitioner states that considering the fact the aforesaid Tsunami which prevailed

upon the coastal regions ofthe country in December 2004, left a vast number of families

homeless, and caused a national crisis which was in urgent need to resolution, the

Petitioner in order play its part to aid the Country in resolving this crisis, accordingly

without making may objection with regard to the same, handed over the possession of

the land in question to the 2nd Respondent on or about 07.03.2005 in terms of the

aforesaid Cabinet decision and in accordance with the aforesaid understanding entered

into with the 1st Respondent.

Petitioner complains that no compensation was paid as aforesaid and in

compliance with P7A & P7B. Attention of this court is drawn to several

correspondence on the question of payment of compensation. P10A to P10B, P11,

P12, P13, P14A, P14B, P1S & P1G, P17 & P18.

The Petitioner pleads and learned counsel for the Petitioner proceed

to argue the case of the petition on the basis of legitimate expectation as in P7a &

P7B, that the matters contained in document P11 is unreasonable and or

irrelevant. Petitioner also state that in 1972 Chettinad corporation was paid on or

6

about 1972 upon Galagodawatte being acquired in terms of the Land Acquisition

Act and the Petitioner by letter P12, PiS & P16 explains that compensation paid

as above is different since the Petitioner is claiming compensation for the

leasehold rights. The other matter is the Petitioner attempt to demonstrate that

Galagodwatte is clearly amalgamated with Monrovia estate. In this regard based

on letter P3, Gazette PS, X1B, X1D with X2 are produced with petition and support

the position with Petitioner's views as in the Written submissions. We are

mindful of all those matters contained therein. The question is whether a Writ of

Mandamus could be granted as prayed for by the Petitioner?

The Respondents vehemently object to the relief sought by the

Petitioner. In the several pleadings filed by the Respondents inter alia suggest

something vital. That is to say that the said Galagodawatte was not amalgamated

with the adjacent Monrovia estate by the 5th Respondent or any other

Respondent. P2 & P3 does not give any proof of incorporation at Galagodawatte

into Monrovia estate. Pi Gazette gives the extent of Galagodawatte acquired as

244 acres and 38 perches and not 244 hectares. Documents P4, PS, P6A or P6B

does not refer to Galagodawatte. Further by Rl & R2 shows the payment of

compensation paid under the Land Acquisition Act. It is further argued that

Galagodawatte Estate is not a part of the Monrovia estate. Ps Gazette

I

1

J

7

Notification cannot pass title to the 3

rd Respondent. Monrovia estate is a

separate land vested in the Respondent Commission (5

th Respondent). Document

SRi has been submitted in proof of same. 5

th Respondent takes up the position

that Galagodawtta Estate is a different land which vested in the 5

th Respondent by

operation of law.

This court observes that there is a very clear difference of opinion

between the Petitioner and the other Respondents as regards identify of the

subject matter, extent, i.e Galagodawattea Estate is not amalgamated with

Monrovia. Petitioner argue otherwise. This is a disputed fact which cannot be

subject of review. On the available material this court cannot rule on disputed

facts. If the identity is in doubt or its extent, the methods adopted in the original

court for a survey etc. cannot be adopted in a superior court. Those matters are

better understood and decided in the Original Court whether the land is

separated or amalgamated is better handled and decided elsewhere.

In Thajudeen Vs. Sri Lanka Tea Board & Another 181(2) SLR 471..

Where the major facts are in dispute and the legal result of the facts is subject to controversy

and it is necessary that the questions should be canvassed in a suit where parties would have

ample opportunity of examining the witnesses so that the Court would be better able to judge

which version is correct, a writ will not issue.

I

f

I

1 1

1

8

Mandamus is pre-eminently a discretionary remedy. It is an extraordinary, residuaf'" and

suppletory remedy to be granted only when there is no other means of obtaining justice. Even

though all other requirements for securing the remedy have been satisfied by the applicant, the

court will decline to exercise its discretion in his favour if a specific alternative remedy like a

regular action equally convenient, beneficial and effective is available.

I would also fortify my views as per the following decided cases.

In P. K. Banerjee Vs. L. T. Symond AIR (1947) Cal 307 ...

Whether the facts show the existence of any or all prerequisites to the granting of the writ is a

question of law in each case to be decided not in any rigid or technical view of the question but

according to a sound and reasonable interpretation. The court will not grant a Mandamus to

enforce a right, not of a legal but of a purely equitable nature however extreme the

inconvenience to which the applicant might be put.

This court further observe that the purported Cabinet Memorandum

at P7A and the letter P7B are suggestions. P7B refer to the Memorandum P7A and

merely states the Cabinet approved same by the decision taken at a Cabinet

meeting. However the Petitioner has not placed before this court the Cabinet

decision referred to therein. Both P7A & P7B does not give rise to the required

statutory force or an existence of a legal right in the absence of the Cabinet

decision being produced. Even otherwise P7A & P7B does not confer enforceable

rights. In any event it would be a futile exercise to grant the remedy prayed for

,

1 I

I

9

after so many years from the dates reflected in P7A and P7B. On the other hand

with the lapse of time the authorities concerned will have to be saddled with

certain administrative inconvenience and problems. As such this court takes the

view that an issue of a writ at this stage is a futile exercise and would c:,use

administrative inconvenience to the Respondents. Writ will not be issued where

the Respondents has no power to perform the act sought to be mandated.

In the P.S. Bus Co. Vs. Members and Secretary of CeylonTransport

Board 61 NLR 491 ..

In the above case it was held that a prerogative writ would not be issued as a matter of course

and it is in the discretion of Court to refuse to grant it if the facts and circumstances are such as

to warrant a refusal; it would not issue when it is vexatious or futile. The same view was taken

in Amarakoon and Others V. University Grants Commission and Others. It was held that ' ... the

issue of a Writ of Mandamus is a discretionary remedy and the Court ought to exercise

discretion and decline the issue of a Writ of Mandamus when it would be practically impossible

to comply with the order.'

On the other hand the Respondent at the hearing submitted that the

Petitioner is guilty of laches. Position of the Petitioner is that there had been

continuous correspondence with the parties concerned and certain assurance

given by the authorities concerned and as such would not attract the defence of

laches. The initial documents relied upon by the Petitioner are P7 A & P7B. If one

examines P7A (though not a legally enforceable document) it contemplates of a

survey and valuation by the Chief Government Valuer which also contemplate of

rti

f

l

1 I

• 10

an appeal to the persons named therein by office. Document P7B is

correspondence between the Secretary, Ministry of Plantation Industries and the

Chairman Land Reform Commission which in a way incorporate the contents of

P7A. Definitely one cannot surmise any legal rights to flow from both P7A & P7B.

Petitioner has filed this application before this court at least after a lapse of 3

years from the dates reflected in P7A & P7B. On that alone there is an

unexplained delay, although Petitioner maintains that there is continued

correspondence, which in my view will not be a counter argument for inordinate

delay.

Petitioner could have at the least filed this application immediately

or within a reasonable time after receipt of document Pl1. The document Pl1 is a

reply to the request made by P10F & P10G. By Pll a definite reply rejecting the

views in P10F and P10G has been conveyed. As such Petitioner's delay is apparent

and unexcusable.

Delay deleats equity. In all the above circumstances and facts of the

case we are not inclined to grant relief. Application dismissed with costs.

l2:JJ {;V0~~ ,..----~ JUD E OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Deepali Wijesundera J.

I agree. (' ~ Y\fV'/V'IY'J JUDGE~ THE COURT OF APPEAL

IIt i ,