==== BLOCKS ==== 

, '

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A. 78411998 (F) D.C. Colombo 10339/M

And Now Between

1. M.M. Mohideen 2. M.F.M. Mohideen 3. M.A.M. Mohideen 4. M.M.M. Mohideen 5. F.K.M. Mohideen 6. Z.A.M. Mohideen 7. I.H.M. Mohideen 8. M.S.M. Mohideen

All carrying on business under the name and style and firm Of' Meezan Foreign Trades" at 4th Floor, Australian Building, 54, York Street, Colombo.

PLAINTIFFS-APPELLANTS

Vs.

Director General of Customs Sri Lanka Customs Colombo 01.

DEFENDANT -RESPONDENT

2

BEFORE: Anil Gooneratne J.

COUNSEL: G. Goonewardena for the Appellant

Janak de Silva Acting D.S.G for Respondent

ARGUED ON: 17.10.2011

DECIDED ON: 14.12.2011

GOONERA TNE J.

This was an action filed in the District Court of Colombo filed

by 8 Plaintiffs carrying on business under the name and style and firm of

"Meezan Foreign Trades" and the Defendant was the Director General of

Customs. Action was filed under the provisions of the Customs Ordinance

claiming the return of goods seized and or in the alteration for it's value to

be paid to the Plaintiff. The only matter argued in this appeal and in the

original court was whether the Defendant named in the caption to the plaint

is not a legal person and that action cannot be filed or maintained nominee

officii on or about 10.11.1998 the learned District Judge of Colombo

dismissed the plaintiff s action with costs and held that Defendant named in

\ ,

3

the caption IS not a legal person and that Plaintiff cannot III the

circumstances maintain the action.

Perusal of the original case record I find that several trial dates

were granted (may be 15 trial dates) for various reasons for settlement etc.

on the initiative of the plaintiff. Plaint was filed on 21.11.1990. Answer filed

on 13.9.1991. Parties proceeded to trail on 15 issue, but issue No. 10 was

tried as a preliminary issue and the case had been concluded on a

preliminary issue based on written submission filed by both parties in the

District Court.

The preliminary issue that was tried reads thus:

10 (a) Is the Defendant named in the action not a legal person?

(b) If so can the plaintiff maintain this action

The District Judge answered the above issues in favour of the Defendant

At the hearing of this appeal the learned counsel for Appellant

inter alia submitted to this court that the Defendant is clearly identified and

in terms of the Customs Ordinance Director General is the authority who

could be sued. Counsel also submitted that the proxy of the Defendant was

filed which was the proxy of the then Director General of Customs, Lalith

Amarasinghe Heengama and sought to demonstrate that by such proxy, if

any defect appearing, the authority to be sued is caused by tendering the

4

proxy of the named Director General of Customs, Lalith Amarasinghe

Heengama. The learned Acting Deputy Solicitor General supported the

judgment of the learned District Judge and demonstrated to court that only

legal and natural persons could be sued and that the action as constituted

cannot be maintained in court and the learned District Judge is correct in

answering issue No. 10.

I had the benefit of perusing the written submission filed in this case. I

would refer to same as cited by learned Deputy Solicitor General who has

discussed the legal provisions from various aspects of the case. It is

interesting to note the following line of decided cases which would assist

this court to arrive at a decision in the disposal of this Appeal.

1. Ladamuttu Pillai vs. Attorney-General 59 NLR 313

This is a Supreme Court Judgment which was overruled by the Privy Council. Court

held:

When one considers the Crown Lands Ordinance it is implied that the Land

Commissioner is a corporation by implication. They held that Section 2 of the Land

Redemption Ordinance, Section 90 of the Crown Lands Ordinance and section 2 of the

Land Development Ordinance make it clear that the Land Commissioner is regarded as a

corporation in regard to his statutory duties and functions. The fact that the Minister has

'general direction and control' does not absolve the Land Commissioner in the

performance of his duties.

5

2. As stated the Privy Council in appeal reversed the above decision In, The Land

Commissioner V s. Ladamuttu Pillai 62 NLR 169

The Privy Council concluded that the Land Commissioner is not expressly created a

Corporation Sole by any legislative enactment nor is it laid down that he may sue or be

sued in a corporate name and that furthermore no legislative enactment seems to reveal

any intention to incorporate. Accordingly, the Privy Council held that the 'Land

Commissioner" was not a Corporation Sole and not amenable to be sued.

3. M. R. Singho Mahatmaya Vs. The Land Commissioner 66 NLR 94

The Supreme Court held that the Land Commissioner cannot be regarded as a corporation

sole and therefore cannot be sued nomine officii. The Court followed the decision of the

Privy Council in The Land Commissioner v. Ladamuttu Pillai (66 NLR 94).

4. The Superintendent Deeside Estate Maskeliya V s. Liankai Thozhilar Kazhakam 70

NLR279.

Where the Court held that "The Superintendent of Deeside Estate" is not a Corporation

Sole, there is no one from whom the amount ordered can be recovered. It is a

fundamental principle that a Court should not make an order which it cannot enforce".

5. Sri Lanka Transport Board Vs. Colombo Metropolitan Bus Company Ltd. S.C (Spl.)

LA 7712007 S.C Minutes of2.7.2008.

This case concerned an appeal made by Sri Lanka Transport Board against the judgment

of the Court of Appeal. A preliminary objection was taken that Sri Lanka Transport

Board has no legal personality in terms of Sri Lanka Transport Board Act No. 27 of 2005

and hence cannot maintain the appeal. Her Ladyship Bandaranayake J. (as she was then)

after considering the decision of the Privy Council in The Land Commissioner v.

Ladamuttu Pillai (62 NLR 182) held that for purpose of incorporating a legal person with

6

capacity to sue and be sued, there must be express provision (page 11). Her Ladyship

after considering the provisions of Sri Lanka Transport Board Act No. 27 of 2005 held

that there was no legal personality in the Sri Lanka Transport Board Act and dismissed

the appeal by upholding the objection that was raised.

I appreciate the submissions of learned Deputy Solicitor

General that court should not be called upon to make an order which cannot

be enforced. If court permits a declaration who will be bound by it? If an

injunction were to be granted who will be enjoined? I think there is lot of

meaning that goes behind the above cases. Permitting an action to proceed

nominee office or against a non legal person would result in a situation of

non-enforcement. No court should make orders which cannot be enforced.

The failure to sue a legal/juristic and or natural person is a material defect

which cannot be caused by an amendment. The proper remedy would have

been to withdraw the case and file fresh plaint.

However the learned District Judge's thinking in this case

appears to be that the Plaintiff has not made an application to amend when

such a defect was pleaded in the answer. I cannot agree with the District

Judge's views on that aspect. But assuming for the sake of argument that an

amendment to the pleadings would cure the defect? In this instance it is very

apparent that Plaintiff has not even attempted to exercise that right. The

following extract from the judgment of the District Court is reproduced

7

which would convey the failure of the Plaintiff to take action promptly

though it is arguable whether it is possible at all. Even an application under

Section 93 of the Civil Procedure Code may not be possible.

C3®® eD~C3El 1991. 09 .13 C3E)B) ~eD @~aern fADO {fl;fi) Crnrnoco ®C5Jes5

Elrnfi)ool;C) C3C3eDfi)fAD a~C5)@C3CO~ C3eD)E)eD Q)E)C) ElC3oJcJrn) @~oorn 00 {fl;rn.

e>C3e5 eD® e>S Crnrnoco 1991 E)d~C3aS @~aern 00 E)(S)@) e®fiB@@

CJoC3(S;}JcJeDCO ro®C) {fE)e5c:nE)&1i fi)m {fl;fi) eD~rn e>E)es5 {fE)e5c)Je:>&1i el;®fiB@@

QC3COJes~C) C3C5)eD ~)®l;rn. ~ {f@E) Q)@eD &D@ el;®fiB@ e~co el;®fiB@@

CJoC3(S;}JcJeDCO ro® CJ®Q)es5CJC3COes5 {fCJ)®)el)23 Q®~co&1i S~oo {fl;fi) Q)E)C)

{fCJoofmC3aS ®rncoc.o. rnE)~ el;®fiB@@ CJoC3(S;}JCJeDCO ro®C) {fE)CJo C3~@

@l;@E)C3(S)rn, Elrnfi)ool;C) eD~E) fAD@Je:>C30JCJ El {fl;fi) Q)E)C) Elrnfi) E»e:>fAD @~aern

1ffiO®C) {fl;fi) {fE)e5C)e:>&1i C5J@5> COes5C3es5c.o.

The authorities cited establish the position that a legal or a

natural person can be sued, but not a non juristic person. Section 2 of the

Customs Ordinance enacts that a Director General may be appointed. There

is no indication in the Ordinance that legislature conferred a legal

personality on the office of Director General of Customs. By Section 145 (2)

of the said statute it is stated that all penalties, forfeitures incurred under the

Statute may be sued for and recovered by an action initiated in the name of

the Attorney General. An understanding of the Customs Ordinance makes it

8

clear as to who should be sued and who should not be sued. There need to be

an express creation of a legal personality in the Statute itself. (held by the

(Privy Council in the 62 NLR 169 case) In this instance it is not possible

even to take up the position that the mistake was only in the description of

the party in the caption. To begin with there is no legal personality or natural

person entitled in law to sue, and be sued, in the plaint filed of record.

This is not a case where one could argue that there is no

ambiguity as to identity of Defendant or that the Attorney-General acted for

the Defendant and proxy refer to the name of Defendant. Court should be

only concerned whether there is an express creation in the statute itself,

which makes the Defendant a legal personality. I have to emphasis that in

the case in hand, Defendant is not a legal person. No application was made

to amend the caption. (possible to argue that such application cannot be

made). In any event Section 93 of the Code would not permit an amendment

to favour the Plaintiff-Appellant on the lapse of very many trial dates.

Although cases cited by the Appellant viz. W.M. Mendis and Co. Vs. Excise

Commissioner; Fonseka and another case of some relevance namely

Divisional Forest Officer vs. Sirisena. The circumstances of those cases are

entirely different to the case in hand. Further non of the above decided cases

ever reject the dicta in the case of Land Commissioner V s. Ladamuttu Pillai.

9

In other words court did not doubt the decision of the case reported above.

62 NLR 169. the present Supreme Court has approved and applied the

principle in the Land Commissioner V s. Ladamuttu Pillai case in an

unreported case namely Sri Lanka Transport Board vs. Colombo

Metropolitan Bus Col Ltd. S C (Spl) L.A 77/2007,. Minutes of2 .. 7.2008.

In all the above circumstances I am of the view that the District

Judge has correctly arrived at a decision to dismiss Plaintiffs action. There

is no legal basis to interfere with the judgment of the District Court. I affirm

the judgment of the District Court and dismiss this appeal with costs fixed at

Rs. 30,0001-

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL