==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. Writ Appln. No. 746/2007

In the matter of an application for the issue of a writ of Mandamus and Certiorari under Article 140 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

Ceylon Grain Elevators Limited, No. 15, Rock House Lane, Colombo 15.

Petitioner.

Vs ..

01. Inter Companies Employee's Union, No. 158/18, E.D. Dabare Mawatha, Colombo 15.

(For and on behalf of 159 Employees)

And 07 others.

Respondents.

· ,..

Before

Counsel

Argued on:

Decided on:

H.N.J. Perera, J.

2

S. Sriskandarajah, J (PICA) & H.N.J. Perera, J.

Nihal Fernando, P.C. with Rohan Dunuwila for the Petitioner.

Dr. Almeida Gunaratne for 1 st Respondent.

Anton Fernando for the 8th Respondent.

Vicum de Abrew, S.s.C, for A.G.

8.12.2011

30.5.2012

The Petitioner has filed this application seeking inter - alia

for an issue of an order in the nature of a Writ of Certiorari

quashing the notifications marked X3, X4 and the decision dated

15.06.2007 marked XII in the petition. The petitioner has further

prayed that the reference to the Industrial Court marked X4 be

referred back to the 5

th Respondent for amendment. The petitioner

states that the 1 st Respondent Union on or about August 2006

preferred an application setting out purported disputes that had arisen

. " •

3

between the 1 st Respondent Union and the Petitioner and the 8th

Respondent. Thereupon the 5th Respondent Minister of Labour

referred the said purported dispute to the Industrial Court for

settlement by virtue of the powers vested III the 5th Respondent

Minister under the Industrial Disputes Act.

The Petitioner further states that the 6th Respondent

Commissioner of Labour by notice dated 26/5/2006 informed the

petitioner of the purported dispute referred to the Industrial Court

which reads as follows: "Whether the non officer of employment with

effect from 20/3/2006 to the 57 employees whose names are referred,

to in the attached schedule and who were employed at Ceylon Grain

Elevators Ltd. on contract basis by Avant Guard Security Services

(Private) Ltd. is justified and if not justified, to what relief each of

them are entitled." The Petitioner in paragraph 4 of the petition

therefore submits that following questions of law has arisen for

consideration by this Court.

(A) Is there a "Industrial dispute" between the petitioner and

1 st Respondent Union, as the Petitioner did not contract the 8th

· ,. 4

Respondent to supply labor to the Petitioner Company and/or none of

_ the workmen referred to in the schedule of the reference were

engaged in any work at the Petitioner Company?

(B) Does the Industrial Disputes Act provide for any dispute

to be referred to the Industrial Court for non offer of employment?

( C) Can an employee have two employers simultaneously.

In paragraph 5(i) to (ii) of the written submissions, the petitioner sets

out the reasons for the said reference to be ex-facie bad in law. The

1 st Respondent Union denies the position that the Union had made an

application regarding this dispute to the Commissioner of Labour. It

is the Union's position that the Industrial Dispute arose between the

Union (including the employees who have been described in the

schedule) and the Petitioner. In paragraph 5 of the objections the 1 st

Respondent states that several persons have been involved m paymg

the salaries to the employees referred to in the schedule and those

persons had implied that they are from the 8th Respondent Company.

The 1 st Respondent states that there was no contract of employment

- ,. 5

between the 8th Respondent and the employees named in the schedule

and further states that the. employees of the Petitioner started a strike

action on 20.03.2006 and thereafter the employment of some workers

(the workman in the schedule of C.A .. Writ 769/06) were terminated

by the Petitioner and even though the strike referred to was concluded

the workers in the schedule were not allowed to report to work. The

1 st Respondent further states that after the 5th Respondent became

aware of this incident the Petitioner and the Union were summoned

for several discussions and the final discussion took place on

12.4.2006 and at the discussion the Petitioner agreed to allow the

workers to report for work with effect from 27.04.2006 and as the

Petitioner did not allow the workers to report for work as agreed the

5th Respondent referred the matter for settlement by way of

arbitration. It is the position of the 1 st Respondent that there is a

clear Industrial dispute between the parties. And if the Industrial Court

is satisfied that there is an Industrial dispute, Industrial Court is not

barred from holding an inquiry and further submits that the Industrial

Court. cannot uphold the objections of the Petitioner without holding

a proper inquiry. The 1 st Respondent further states that the workers

named III the schedule had directly contracted the Petitioner and

6

received the employment from the Petitioner and that the 57 workmen

referred to in the schedule had worked for the petitioner and that they

had not worked for the 8th Respondent at any time. In paragraphs 8

of their written submissions the Petitioner submits that the Industrial

Court was obliged in the first instance to satisfy itself to the

correctness of the reference and determine that the Industrial Court

had jurisdiction to hear and determine the said matter purported to be

a dispute and further submits that the purported reference of the

Minister refers to a dispute between parties when in fact the Petitioner

IS not the employer or contract the 8th Respondent to outsource labour.

It is the position of the Petitioner that the 8th Respondent did not

aSSIgn the workmen in the schedule to the reference to work in or

at the premIses of the Petitioner Company and as such there cannot

be any dispute with workmen of the 1 st Respondent Union who are

admittedly employed by the 8th Respondent and had no nexus with

the Petitioner whatsoever.

The main argument put forward on behalf of

the Petitioner was to the effect that whether there is an Industrial

Dispute between the petitioner and the 1 st Respondent Union as

- ,. 7

petitioner did not contract the 8th Respondent to supply labour to the

petitioner Company and that there lies no dispute to be referred to the

Industrial court, for non offer of employment. As the Industrial

dispute Act provides specifically only to non-employment there cannot

be two employers and as the purported reference also refers to a

dispute between parties, where in fact Petitioner is not the employer

and as such there cannot be any dispute with the workmen of the 1 st

Respondent Union who are admittedly employed by the 8th Respondent

A vanet Group Security Services Private Limited. It is submitted on

behalf of the Petitioner that the reference is bad in law and that the

Industrial Court failed in the first instance to consider whether the

dispute referred to the Industrial Court is bad in law and the

reference of the Industrial Court cite two employers and for the

reasons stated in the paragraph 37 of the written submissions the

Court should grant the relief as prayed for in the petition. Section 48

of the Industrial Disputes Act defines an Industrial dispute as "any

dispute or difference between an employer and a workman or between

employers and workmen or between workmen and workmen connected

with the employment or for non-employment, or the terms of employment,

or with the conditions of labor, or the termination of the services or

8

the reinstatement in servIces, of any person and for the purposes of

_ this definition "workmen" includes a trade Union consisting of

workmen." Counsel for the Petitioner contended that the dispute

between the Respondent and the Petitioner was not an Industrial

Dispute within the meaning of the Act. In Colombo Apothecaries

Company Limited Vs Wijesuriya 70 N.L.R. 488. G.P.S. Silva, J stated

that "when I consider the definition of the words "Industrial dispute"

in the present Act, I cannot help thinking that it is wide enough to

include every serious problem that can arise between an employer and

employee in relation to the employment ........................................... \

So far as the powers of the Minister under Section 4 of the Act are

concerned, experience has shown too often that the termination of

services of one employee has resulted III considerable or complete

dislocation of an Industry with which he was associated. In these

circumstances the question suggests itself whether a sagacious and

prudent Minister, having all the data before him, would not be in the

best position to consider whether the termination of services of a

particular worker is or is not of such a nature as to be likely to lead

to unrest is one or more Industries and, When he so feels, whether

9

he would not be justified m setting on motion the machinery

_ contemplated in Section 4 of the Act. ............................................. .

When the matter in dispute reaches the Minister, in my view, there is

only one purpose for which he will consider it, namely, for the

purpose of proceeding under Section 4 of the Act in relation to the

existing dispute. For this purpose he has to satisfy himself first that

there is an Industrial dispute and, if so for the purposes of exercising

his powers under sub section (1), to form an opinion as to whether or

not it is a mmor dispute. In regard to the first matter I think he

will be fully justified m deciding that there IS an Industrial Dispute

m this case by reference to the definitions of the words Industrial

dispute................................................ "read with the definition

of the word "workman" which includes, for the purpose of any

proceeding under the Act in relation to an Industrial Dispute, a person

whose services have been terminated. It seems to me an unwarranted

restriction of the meanmg of this definition to hold that the

Minister should first consider whether an Industrial dispute in terms

of the definition exist independently of the purpose for which he is

indulging in such consideration. In my view he has necessarily to

consider the meaning of the words, having the purpose of that

-,.. 10

consideration in the forefront, namely to take proceedings under

_ Section 4. Else there is no occasion for him to consider whether

there is an industrial dispute or not.

In the instant case the Petitioner denies that he had ever

employed the employees referred to in the schedule whilst the 8th

Respondent had admitted employing some of the employees referred

to in the schedule and further there IS also evidence to suggest that

the employees had been out sourced. All these matters has to be

looked into by the Industrial court and have come to a clear finding

as to who the employer of the workmen referred to in the schedule

to the petition. All these facts show that there is an Industrial dispute

within the meaning of Section 48 of the Act and therefore this Court

is of the OpInIOn that in the instant case there IS an Industrial

dispute within the meaning of Section 48 of the Act and that the

order of the Section 4(1) was properly made by the Minister.

In Tirunawakarasu V s. Siriwardena and others, (1981) 1 Sri

L.R., 185,193 Wanasundera, J observed as follows:

11

"The Industrial Disputes Act provides for state

intervention in the resolution of disputes between Management and

workmen. The procedures that are divised therein for the settlement of

Industrial disputes reach beyond the interests of the contesting parties

and are matters of real concern to the community at large."

In S.B. Perera Vs Standard Charted Bank and others 1995

(1 Sri L.R. 73 Amarasinghe, J referred to the analysis of the

definition of the Industrial dispute in the Industrial Disputes Act by

Tennakoon, J III Colombo Apothecaries Company Limited Vs.

Wijesuriya and states that Tennakoon, J in that case held that the

definition Industrial Dispute fell into 3 parts.

The first referred to the factum of the dispute or

difference. The 2nd part to the parties to the dispute, and the 3rd part

to the subject matter of the dispute. With regard to the 3rd part,

Tennakoon, J having said that a dispute or difference must be

connected with the employment of non-employment or the terms of

employment or with the conditions of labour or the termination of

services or the re-instatement in service of any person drew attention

- ,.. 12

to fact that "while in the 2nd part the parties are described by

reference to such words as "employers" and "workmen" the

legislature in describing the subject matter of the dispute, did it by

reference not to any workman, but by reference to any person."

In Colombo Apothecaries Company Limited Vs.

Wijesuriya Tennankoon, J held that "it has been said frequently and

quite recently reiterated by their Lordships of the privy Council that

the purpose and object of the Act is the maintenance and the

promotion of the Industrial Peace, and it may be added that the

preservation of the Industrial Peace is directed not to the redress of

private and personal gnevances but to the secunng of the

uninterrupted supply of goods and services to the public by employers

engaged in such Enterprises. The Act takes as the prime danger to the

Industrial Peace, that kind of situation which is capable of endangering

Industrial Peace and gives it the name 'Industrial Dispute'. In the

definition of the Industrial Dispute the emphasis is thus not on the

denial of or infringement of a right of workman by his employer but

on the existence of a dispute or difference between given parties

13

connected with the rights not merely of a party to the dispute but

_ also of third parties.

His Lordship further added that "what IS important to

note, of course, is that the legislature, in usmg the expreSSIOn 'any

person' instead of the term 'workman' in that portion of the definition

of 'Industrial Dispute' which relates to the subject matter of the

dispute, used an expression wide enough to include a person who is

not a de facto or de jure workman in his primary sense and into this

class would fall both a person who has never had employment before

and also a person who having been in service has been discharged."

Therefore the mere denial of the petitioner stating that petitioner had

not employed any of the employees referred to in the schedule will not

prevent the Minister from referring the Industrial Dispute to the 6th

Respondent. Therefore this Court is of the view that the mere denial

of the Petitioner will not prevent the Minister from referring the said

Industrial Disputes to the 6th Respondent in respect of an Industrial

dispute referred under Section 48 for settlement by Arbitration. Section

1 7 of the Industrial dispute Act requires an Arbitrator to make such

14

award as may appear to him just and equitable. And Section 17(i)

empowers the Arbitrator to make all inquiries into the dispute as he

may consider necessary. It is an administrative Act of the Minister.

The Minister has to form an opinion as to the existence of the

Industrial Dispute. The Minister have all the data before him is in a

position to form an opinion as to the existence of an Industrial

dispute within the meaning of Industrial disputes Act. In the instant

case the Minister had formed an opinion as to the existence of an

Industrial Dispute between the parties concerned and has referred the

same to the Industrial Court. Therefore the Industrial court has

jurisdiction to inquire into the matter and clear any doubt as to who

the employer of the employee's referred to in the schedule to the

petition. For that purpose the Industrial Court is in a position to make

all inquiries into the dispute as it may consider necessary. The

Industrial Court is of the view that since the objections raised by the

Respondent go to the route of the reference a comprehensive hearing

should be gIven before it decides the matter. I agree with the

submissions made by the 5th and i h Respondents where they state

that the matters referred to in the reference were not capable of been

15

adjudicated summarily, as the matters under reference were essentially

been a questions of fact. Therefore I see no reason to interfere with

the order made by the 6th Respondent marked X 11 as there is no

merit in the application of the petitioner. Therefore I dismiss the

application of the petitioner and award costs of Rs 150001= payable by

the petitioner to the 1 st Respondent.

/ THE COURT OF APPEAL

S. Sriskandarajah, J. (P/C.A)

I agree.

///t_~

PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL