==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COUTRT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA. 1316/96(F)

D.C. Ratnapura 1358/L

Lekamalage Chandanahamige

Podimahattaya,

Neelagama,

Kahawatta.

Plaintiff

I Kodikarage Mohottihami,

Neelagama,

Kahawatta.

Defendant

Kodikarage Mohottihami,

Neelagama,

Kahawatta.

Defendant-Appellant

Vs.

Lekamalage Chandanahamige

Podimahattaya,

Neelagama,

Kahawatta.

Plaintiff-Respondent

TOHIS LORDSHIP THE PRESIDENT AND HONOURABLE JUDGES OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCILIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

Counsel: H Wittnachchi for the Defendant! Appellant

G. Hetttiarachchi for the Plaintiff! Respondent.

Arguments:II-5-2011

Written Submissions: 16-5-2011

Judgment: 21-11-2011.

Before Rohini Marasinghe J

The plaintiff!respondent (hereinafter referred to as respondent) instituted a

rei vindicatio action against the defendant!appellant (hereinafter referred to

as appellant) in the District Court of Ratnapura seeking inter alia a

declaration of title to the land more fully described in the schedule to the

plaint.

At the commencement of the trial both parties agreed as to the identity of the

corpus. Consequently, the corpus in issue was identified as lots 7,8,9

depicted in the plan bearing No: 694 made by licensed surveyor L.U.

Kannangara. on 10-10-1977.

After trial the learned trial judge delivered the judgment in favour of the

respondent. This appeal is against that judgment.

This is an rei vindicatio action seeking a declaration of title and ejectment.

It may be a declaration of title or it may be a possessory action the purpose

is to recover the property. However, in a rei vindicatio action the cause of

action is based on the sole ground of violation of right of ownership to the

land. And, in a Possessory action the cause of action is based on the sole

ground of violation of the right to possess the land.

In a rei vindicatio action the plaintiff claims as the owner of the land- i.e. he

has the dominium, and that land is in the unlawful possession of the

defendant.

2

In a case where the plaintiff is suing for a declaration of title not on the basis

of ownership or under the terms of section 3 of the Prescription Ordinance

but on the basis of possession, then he is claiming a possesssory remedy. In

such a case the plaintiff need not prove an ownership to the property either

by prescription or by title. In a possessory action the plaintiff need to

establish only that he possessed the land for an year and a day and that he

was forcibly disposed by the defendant. But the point is in a rei vindicatio

action the burden is clearly on the plaintiff to establish the title pleaded and

relied on by him. The plaintiff must show title to the property in dispute and

that if he cannot his action will fail. The defendant in a rei vindicatio action

need not prove any thing, still less his own title.( Wanigaratne v Juwanis

Appuhamy 64 NLR 167) The plaintiff cannot ask for a declaration of title in

his favour merely on the strength that the defendant's title is poor or not

established

Having stated the principles I shall now tum to the facts of this case as

disclosed at the trial.

3

The respondent had given evidence at the trial. According to his evidence

the original owners of half of the share of the property were on Anndahamy,

Pinhamy, Mithurhamy, and Mudalihamy, and the balance half share was

owned by Dineshamy, Mithuruhamy and Ukkuhamy. The plaintiff had

purchased this land in issue from the said owners. The deeds P13, P15, P 17,

P 23 , P 24, P 27, P 33 P35, P 38, P42, P 46, P 47, P 49 had been marked to

prove the transfer of the property. ( Vide page 6 of the judgment) Therefore,

the trial judge had been satisfied that the respondent had become the owner

of this land as a result of these deeds. Additionally, the witness named

Patabadge Apppuhamy had given evidence to prove the fact that the original

owners mentioned and pleaded by the respondent in fact had owned the land

in dispute. The respondent had further established that in the year 1962 he

had built a house on this land without objection from any person.

Another witness called on behalf of the respondent was one Sidharupage

Kirilamaya. According to said Kirilamaya, the propert in dispute was

purchased by said Kirilamaya from one person named Siribohamy. The said

Siribohamy is one person through which the respondent had pleaded his title

to the corpus. This fact further established the respondent's title. (page 8 of

the judgment)

4

The defendant had given evidence. One witness named Pod Appuhamy had

given evidence on behalf of the defendant. The learned trial judge had not

been satisfied with the evidence given by PodiApppuhamy. (Page 10 - 12 of

the jUdgment)

Another important fact is the Court of appeal decision in the case bearing No

4997. In the case 4997 the parties were the same parties as in this case. The

plaintiff in that case was the appellant in this case. The defendant in that case

was the respondent in this case. The Court of appeal had held that the

plaintiff in case 4997 has only a posessory remedy. The action had been

filed on the basis of prescriptive title. Bu the Court of Appeal in that case

had held that the plaintiff did not have any title to that land other that a right

to possess the land. Consequently, the plaintiffs claim in that case for

prescriptive title had failed. The Judgment had been marked as P 53. ( The

relevant portions of the judgment had been quoted in this case in the

impugned judgment at pages 14 and 15.

Therefore, I am of the view that the respondent had sufficiently established

his title to the property. I am also of the view that the learned trial judge had

5

correctly approached the issues in this case. I see no reason to interfere with

the decision of the trial judge.

The appeal is dismissed.

Rohini Mk::::

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

6