==== BLOCKS ==== 

! 1 I

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A 412/07 (Writ)

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

N. V. Gooneratne No. 12, Vanderwet Place, Dehiwela.

PETITIONER

Vs.

Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation No.3, Sri Jayawardenaprua Mawatha Rajagiriya.

The Chairman Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation

Mr. M. Manimuthu Former Chairman, Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation

All of No. 3, Sri Jayawardenapura Mawatha, Welikada, Rajagiriya.

Mr. A.N.R Amaratunge Former Secretary, Ministry of Urban Development and Water Supply, "Sethsiripaya" Battaramulla.

Dr. P. Ramanujan Former Secretary, Ministry of Urban Development and Sacred Area Development, Battaramulla.

\ i

i I !

I.

\ l i, 1 I , i , I t I l i ! , I

f t I ; t f !

~ t I f ,

\ I

,

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

6. Mr. B.H.M. Ratnasiri Former Additional Secretary (Admin) Ministry of Urban Development, "Sethsiripaya", Battaramulla.

7. Mr. Wickremarachchige Kithsiri Wickremasinghe, Former Deputy General Manager, Lands and Marketing, Land: Reclamation and Development Corporation No.3 Sri Jayawardenaprua Mawatha, Rajagiriya.

8. Mrs. Prathapage Hemalatha Deputy General Manager, Lands and Marketing, Land Reclamation and Development Corporation No.3 Sri Jayawardenaprua Mawatha, Rajagiriya.

9. Mr. S. D. Chandradasa No. 396, Negombo Road, Seeduwa.

RESPONDENTS

Sathya Hettige P.C. J. (PI C.A) & Anil Gooneratne J.

Dr. Almeida Gunaratne P.C with Lasitha Chaminda For the Petitioner Vikum de Abrew S.S.C for the 1 S\ 2nd, 4th , 5th & 6th Respondents

21.01.2011

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON :

21.09.2010 & 01.12.2010

DECIDED ON: 24.02.2011

2

3

GOONERA TNE J.

The Petitioner is an Engineer by profession who was the

General Manager of the 1 st Respondent Corporation with effect from

29.3.2004. Prior to his appointment to the said post he held several

responsible posts in the said corporation as well as acting General Manager

at a certain point of time. A Writ of Certiorari is sought to quash documents

P4, (which sent the Petitioner on compulsory retirement) and document P6

which state to give the findings of a committee and the request for such

findings made by the Petitioner and refusal to give such findings as in P6.

The contents of P6 states as follows:

You have retired in the normal course. The findings of the committee has no

effect on your retirement directly. On the other hand, there is no necessity to give

the findings of the committee to you particularly in the light of the fact that no

action has been taken on the findings, However, if there is a direction to submit

these findings to a court of law, such a request will be positively complied with.

Petitioner has in the prayer 'c' sought a Writ of Mandamus to

restore him in the post of General Manager,

The main issue is on a deed of transfer (P2a) being executed

without prior approval where the Petitioner had placed his signature on

same. In the above circumstances I would refer to the following facts in

4

order to approach the problem placed before this court in the manner as set

out in the written submissions of the Petitioner.

1. On or about the 11th of March 2004, the Petitioner (then servmg as Acting

General Manager as aforesaid), was during the course of his duties, directed, by

the 3rd Respondent (the the Chairman and his immediate superior) to place his

signature on deed number 289, effecting a transfer of an allotment of land

described as Lot No.1 in Plan No. 1270, dated 1 i h July, 1987 in favour of Rev.

Depanama Sugathabandu in his personal capacity while excluding his successors

in title who had been named in the previous deed relevant to the said property

(Vide P2(a»

2. In his averments before Court, the Petitioner had specifically stated that, being an

Engineer (B.Sc Peradeniya) as aforesaid, he had no knowledge of the legality or

otherwise of the said transaction but that he had signed the said deed as it was

'asked of him being a subordinate officer to the said Chairman and also with a

feeling of assurance that it was in good order and that, in any event, had he

refused to sign, it could be construed as an act of insubordination' (Vide

paragraph 13 of the Petition).

3. The Petitioner also stressed before Court, that he had, pnor to placing his

signature on the above mentioned deed, taken reasonable precautions to ensure

that the said transaction was legal, by querying from the two members of the land

division of the 1 st Respondent Corporation, namely the i h and 8th Respondents

above named, Mr. Wickremarachchige Kithsiri Wickremasinghe and Mrs.

Prathapage Hemalatha who were witnesses to the attestation of the said deed, as

to the legality of the transfer and had been assured that the transaction was in

order. (Vide paragraph 26 B of the petition).

4. In this background and following a full two years since the execution of the said

deed, (P2a), the Petitioner received a charge sheet signed by the 4th Respondent,

•

5

on the 13th of March 2006 charging him with inter alia the illegal transfer of the

above mentioned property to the Rev. Sugathabandu in his personal capacity,

without the requisite approval. (Vide P3.). The Petitioner denied all charges and

appointed his defence officer for the inquiry (vide P3a and P3b).

5. The disciplinary inquiry which was conducted by the 9th Respondent ran from

July 18th 2006 to October 2nd 2006, (vide proceedings marked as P3(d). On or

about the 9th of January 2007, the Petitioner received a letter dated 8th January

2007 signed by the 2nd Respondent, informing him that he will be retired

compulsorily with immediate effect. (vide P4). Thereafter, in response to several

requests by the Petitioner that he be given a copy of the findings of the above

mentioned disciplinary inquiry held against him in order to enable him to make an

appeal against the decision (vide P5 being an example thereoO the 6th

Respondent (writing for the 4th Respondent) informed the Petitioner by letter

dated 26th February 2007 which was received by the Petitioner only in the second

week of March,) that he could not be given a copy of the said findings on the

basis that, inter alia, the Petitioner had retired in the normal course and that the

said findings had no direct effect on his retirement. (vide P6). That is, in effect,

adding insult to inquiry and blatantly choosing to ignore the fact that, before the

date of retirement fell in the normal course (that is, on 20th September 2008), he

had been compulsorily retired on 8th January 2007 by P4).

I would at this point refer to the following matters urged by the

Petitioner briefly before I consider the position of the Respondents and

counter arguments.

(a) Procedural impropriety of the disciplinary inquiry -charge sheet should be framed

under Section 48(1) of the Establishment Code and not 48(a) of the Code.

I

! f I

\

f

6

(b) Deed P2 not revoked prior to executing deed P2A. Deed P2 has the effect of

creating a charitable trust. P2A does not prejudice the rights in deed P2. No legal

consequences flow.

(c) Compulsory retirement of Petitioner unreasonable and arbitrary.

(d) Petitioner had authority to sign deed P2A. Rely on i h & 8th Respondents

assurance (signed P2A as witnesses). Some form of assurance by i h & 8th

Respondents and such reliance has not been effectively refuted by the 1

5t to 6th

Respondents. i h & 8th Respondents had not denied such position.

(e) Petitioner's compulsory retirement offends the principle of proportionality.

(f) Petitioner's authority flow from Section 5(2), 12(1) and 12(2) of the Colombo

District (low lying areas) Reclamation and Development Board Act. Provisions of

Act does not limit Petitioner's authority.

(g) Paragraph 26(b) of the Petition not denied. Petitioner relies in the case of

Maithripala 2006( 1) ALR 9.

(h) Decision or finding of the authorities arrived at by taking into consideration

irrelevant factors.

(i) Finding of the Report 1 R6 not in accordance with charge sheet P3 (P3 served on

Petitioner after a lapse of 2 years from P2A).

G) Findings in lR6 (folio 61) where Petitioner is found guilty would qualify for 2nd

schedule punishment of the Code. (urged as in(e) above).

(k) Mala Fides - Petitioner focused on irregularities by P7a, P7b & p7c.

(1) Document P8 by chairman contains an interpolation - Mala Fides

(m)Mala Fides - paragraph 15(d) (g) of Petitioner's counter affidavit and annexture

P14.

In view of the several allegations/lapses suggested by the Petitioner,

Position of the Respondents need to be considered very carefully. Statement

of objections of 1 st, 2nd, 4t\ 5th & 6th Respondents are filed of record along

i i t I J t j

! I t f I

\ ,

! l

•

7

with the 2nd Respondent's affidavit (Chairman of the I st Respondent

Corporation). The t h & 8th Respondents who were signatories to deed P2A

have not filed any pleadings in this court, although they were witnesses to a

controversial deed (P2A).

The affidavit and objections of the above mentioned

Respondents with documents IRI to IR5 support the position of the 1st

Respondent as follows in so far as deed P2. It is averred that the 1st

Respondent had only renounced its rights, title and interests by Deed of

Declaration No. 18(P2) dated 09.12.1988 in respect of the land described in

'P2' in favour of Rev. Sugathabandu Thero and Shishyanushishya

Paramaparawa of Sri Wijayashramaya referred to therein. The Respondents

state that:

(a) Consequent to a proposal by the Urban Development Authority, the 15t

Respondent took steps to re-arrange the land referred to in Lot No. 24 of Plan No.

CO 5534 dated 01.07.1981 and to re-demarcate and re-Iocate the premises held

by the said temple so as to enhance the utility value of the lands as seen by Plan

No. 1270 dated 17.07.1987.

(b) The Respondents state that the above proposal was given effect to by the 1 st

Respondent in pursuance of the approval granted by the Committee appointed by

the Cabinet Sub-Committee on Urban Development to Determine the Sale of

Lands Re-Claimed by the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development

Corporation and the 1 st Respondent accordingly renounced its rights, title and the

interests in respect of an extent of AO: 2R: 20P only as stated in 'P2'.

8

As regards deed P2(a) it is averred by the said Respondents that the

Petitioner and the 3rd Respondent purported to have executed the Deed No.

289 marked as P.2.a, by which they purportedly have transferred the

property in question to Rev. Depanama Sugathabandu Thero in his personal

capacity. The Respondents state that neither the petitioner nor the 3 rd

Respondent had informed the Land and Marketing Division of the 1 st

Respondent Corporation of the purported execution of the said Deed; as such

they did not have the authority to do so for and on behalf of the 1 st

Respondent Corporation. The Respondents specifically deny the alleged

circumstances under which the act referred to therein was said to have been

carried out by the petitioner.

These Respondents stress Petitioner's irresponsible conduct and

total disregard to his accountability to the 1 st Respondent Corporation.

Further the Petitioner as the Chief Executive Officer of the 1 st Respondent

Corporation could not and should not have in any event subjugated to the

authority of the 3 rd Respondent and no special knowledge on law was

required by Petitioner to be attentive and diligent in the discharge of his

official duties.

These Respondents have denied paragraph 26(b) of the Petition

and state that the petitioner had not exercised his powers of judgment in

9

giving his authority to execute the Deed No. 289 (P.2.a) jointly with the 3

rd

Respondent. There is, however, no material before Court to indicate that the

t h and 8th had in fact stood as attesting witnesses in their official capacity

and as to the circumstances under which the two witnesses were alleged to

have stood as witnesses to the impugned execution of the Deed. In any

event, the fact that the t h and 8th Respondents had become signatories as

witnesses did not absolve the petitioner of his duty to be circumspect and to

be satisfied that all the procedural steps had been followed prior to the

execution of the Deed by which the alienation of the land owned by the 1 st

Respondent was intended to be effected.

As regards paragraph 26( c ) of the petition Respondents aver

(a) The Deed No. 289 (P.2.a) was found to have been executed purely to meet the

personal request by Rev. Depanama Sugathabandu Thero to have and hold the

property by him personally after more than fifeen years from the date of execution

of the Deed of Declaration No.18 (P2) as evidenced by his letter dated

12.02.2004, which is annexed hereto marked 'IR-9'. The Respondents state that

the petitioner by acceding to the said request in less than four weeks with the

transfer of the property was privy to the apparent collusion orchestrated by the

said Thero jointly with the 3rd Respondent.

I would at this point of this judgment consider the views of both

sides. On the question of procedural impropriety of the inquiry I am of the

view that no prejudice had been caused to the Petitioner. Reference to the

I I_ I I

I I I 1 I

I I l I { I 1 l I 1 I

~

I 1 I ,

1 1 !

10

relevant schedule as (a) instead of' l' cannot be a serious objection. Thus it

would not have mislead the Petitioner, since there are other important and

relevant matters to be discussed and Petitioner's continued participation at

the inquiry indicates that it is not a valid objection. As regards Petitioner's

contention that the deeds referred to in this application, deed P2A does not

prejudice the rights in deed P2, and that no legal consequence flow cannot

be answered so simply as 'yes' or 'no'. Validity of deed P2A, authority to

execute same are two important matters to be tested by a Court of

Competent jurisdiction and the matter needs to be argued fully by both sides

very seriously. As such I am unable to agree with the Petitioner's views

expressed in this regard. Writ of Certiorari and Mandamus being J !

discretionary remedies of court, based on this submission I do not think that

the Petitioner has the edge over the Respondent. There is no direct bearing

on the main issue i.e authority of Petitioner to execute deed P2a. Absence of

Board approval/or ministerial sanctions supported with statutory provisions

would tend to leave room for criticism against the Petitioner's expected

official functions.

Learned President's Counsel for Petitioner also argued that

Petitioner's authority flow from Section 5(2),12(1 )and 12(2) of the Colombo

11

District (Low-Lying Area) Reclamation and Development Act. The said

Sections reads thus:

5(2) The Board shall be a body corporate having perpetual succession and a common

seal and may sue and be sued in the name assigned to it by subsection (1 ).

I2( 1) The seal of the Board shall be in the custody of such person as the Board may

decide from time to time.

(2) The seal of the Board shall not be affixed to any instrument or document except in

the presence of the Chairman, or some other member, of the Board and the chief

executive officer of the Board, both of whom shall sign the instrument or document

in token of their presence.

In terms of the above provisions there is no limitation on Petitioner

authority. But Petitioner could perform any official act only with proper

approval of the Board or sanction of the relevant Ministry or else any act

performed by the Petitioner would be invalid or illegal.

However when I consider all the facts and circumstances of this

case with the background details, I would advert to the following matters

which favour the Petitioner.

(a) Execution of deed P2A was not the sole decision of the Petitioner. It appears that

the Chairman at that time who is the 3rd Respondent, initiated the entire process

which is explained by document P8. Petitioner has invited this court to an

interpolation in P8 and I have no hesitation in accepting the version of the

Petitioner in this regard, although the Petitioner cannot be exonerated altogether.

(b) The role of the i h & 8th Respondents to some extent favour the Petitioner

notwithstanding the fact that the i h & 8th Respondents were only signatories to

the deed. As such the petitioner may have had some assurance by those

( I I

I I £ f ! I

I I !

f

\

r I

i I i I I i ,

I I j I I l I I

l

12

Respondents but Petitioner should not have taken things for granted in the

absence of proper written authority. This position would be only a mitigatory fact

or factor in the absence of a effective denial by the i h & 8th Respondents who are

also responsible officers of the 15t Respondent Corporation.

(c) Lapse of 2 years from date of execution of deed P2A to issuance of charge sheet

P3. During the 2 year period Petitioner was also promoted to the post of General Manager. (d) Irregularities focused in letter P7, P7a, P7b & P7c tend to support mala fides as

pleaded by Petitioner (e) Decision in P6 contradicts P4 or P6 retract from the decision in P4. (f) Decision in P4 (sent on compulsory retirement) is disproportionate, unreasonable

and outrageous.

The Petitioner's submission on proportionality is a recognized

Principle in Administrative Law. I have no hesitation with the development

of law in this direction, to apply the doctrine of proportionality to the facts of

this case. I am in full agreement with the submissions of learned President's

Counsel for the Petitioner regarding applicability of the above principle.

Having this in view I refer to the following authorities which paved the way

to apply this principle.

Administrative Law 8th Ed. - H.W.R. Wade - pg. 368/9 ....

In the law of a number of European countries there is a 'principle of proportionality'

which ordains that administrative measures must not be more drastic than is necessary for

attaining the desired result. This doctrine has been adopted by the European Court of

Justice in Luxembourg and may well infiltrate British law through the decisions of that

court, since British law must conform to European Union law. It is recognized also by the

European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, so that it should infiltrate also through

the Human Rights Act 1998. Lord Diplock took judicial notice of this prospect when he

set out the categories of judicial review in 1985, but he spoke of it only as a possibility

13

for the future. Encouraged by these dicta claimants have invoked proportionality in a

number of cases, but mostly without success. Proportionality has also been advocated as

a desirable principle of judicial review.

It is clear that the principles of reasonableness and proportionality cover a

great deal of common ground. In the case, for example, where the revocation of a market

trader's licence was quashed as being an unreasonably severe penalty for a small offence,

the decision could have been based on disproportionality as easily as on

unreasonableness, and the Court of Appeal has long been accustomed to reducing awards

of damages which are 'out of all proportion to the circumstances of the case'. Where

attempts have been made to rely upon proportionality judges have tended to equate it

with reasonableness. As Lord Hoffmann has said, it is not possible to see daylight

between them. They will often be assimilated by the 'margin of appreciation' allowed by

EU law, which gives latitude for administrative decisions by national authorities in a

manner similar to the British doctrine.

Nevertheless the House of Lords have detected a difference, in that

proportionality requires the court to judge whether the action taken was really needed as

well as whether it was within the range of courses of action that could reasonably be

followed.

Textbook on Administrative Law 2nd Edition - Peter Leyland & Terry Woods

Pg.218 ....

Proportionality works on the assumption that administrative action ought not go

beyond the scope necessary to achieve its desired result. In other words, if

measures are considered to do more harm than good in reaching a given objective,

they are liable to be set aside. This is a useful concept to adopt when seeking to

balance the exercise of the kind of discretion placed in the hands of

administrators. Proportionality may be regarded as an extra safeguard which is

activated only after it has been established that a public body has the legal power

to act, or that the body is not pursuing an improper purpose, i.e., even if these

grounds do not apply, it may still be relevant to consider whether the body

t

j I

1 I I 1 \ t

~ J I I I , I j I I I

J ! j ! i

~

14

concerned is acting proportionately (Craig 1994, p. 414). At its simplest, the court

may be called upon to perform a kind of balancing exercise to assess if the

objective for an official decision justifies the means employed to achieve it, or

whether the means can be deemed to be disproportionate.

I would also prefer to look at this doctrine adopted in various

other countries and in India. The following material gathered from the text

by Justice Bhagabati Prasad Banerjee on Judicial Control of Administrative

Action Edition 2001, provides useful reading material

Pg. 10211 0311 04 ..

Canada Court in Smith v. Queen 40 DLR (4th) 435 also applied the

principle of disproportionate punishment as a ground to set aside the order of

conviction in a criminal case. Section 5(2) of the Narcotic Control Act (Canada)

provides for minimum sentence of seven years' imprisonment on conviction for

importing narcotics. The accused pleaded guilty for importing narcotics contrary

to section 5 of the Narcotic Control Act, RSC 1970, as a result of an attempt to

bring into Canada a quantity of cocaine having a street value of approximately $

150,0001-. It was argued that section 5 of the said Act was unconstitutional as it

required imposition of minimum term of imprisonment of seven years. In Canada

there is also a protection against imposition of cruel and unusual punishment. The

State may impose punishment, the effect of that punishment must not be grossly

disproportionate to what would have been appropriate. It was held that in

assessing where the sentence is grossly disproportionate the Court may consider

the gravity of the offence, the personal characteristics of the offender and the

particular circumstances of the case in order to determine what range of sentence

would have been appropriate to punish, rehabilitate or deter the particular

I i ! ! I l I I i i t I

~ I I I

\ f

t

j I Ie

1

1 I

1 I

~ I

1 t I 1 I I I ! I 1

~ I I

I I l I 1 l i I i ! , 1 l I I 1 I ! I

15

offender or to protect the public from him. It was held that section 5(2) of the said

Act is unconstitutional as the punishments are grossly disproportionate which

constitutes cruel and unusual punishment.

This has been a new ground of challenge for judicial review: If

punishment is excessively high or disproportionate it violates the principles of

natural justice. It is held the judicial review generally speaking is not directed

against the decision but it is directed against the decision making process. The

question of choice and quantum of punishment is within the jurisdiction and

discretion of the disciplinary authority. But the sentence is to suit the offence and

the offender. It should not be vindictive or unduly harsh. It should not be so

disproportionate to offence as to shock the conscience and amount in itself to

conclusive evidence of bias. The doctrine of proportionality, as part of the concept

of judicial review, would ensure that even on the aspect which is, otherwise,

within the exclusive province of the Disciplinary authority, if the decision of the

authority even as to sentence is an outrageous defiance of logic, then the sentence

would not be immune from correction. Irrationality and perversity are recognized

ground of judicial review.

In Bhagat Ram v. State of Himachal Pradesh, AIR1983 SC 454 at 460, the

Supreme Court held that "it is equally true that the penalty imposed must be

commensurate with the gravity of the misconduct and that any penalty

disproportionate to the gravity of the misconduct would be violative of Article 14

of the Constitution" (Bhagat Ram v. State of Himachal Pradesh, AIR 1983 SC

454).

In Council of Civil Service Union v. Minister for the Civil Service, (1984)

3 WLR 1174 (HL) LORD DIPLOCK said: - "Judicial review as I think developed

to a stage today when without reiterating any analysis of the steps by which the

development has come about, one can conveniently clarify under three heads the

grounds upon which administrative action is subject to control by judicial review,

The first ground I would call 'illegality', the second 'irrationality' and the third

f f i

j j i I 1 1 I I I I I 'i I i

! I I

t I I

1 I j ! I 1 1 1

16

'procedural impropriety'. That is not to say that further development on a case by

case basis may not in course of time add further grounds. I have in mind

particularly the possible adopted in the further of the principle of

'proportionality' which is recognized in the administrative law of several of our

fellow members of the Economic Community".". It was also said by DIPLOCK

J. that a decision to be held as irrationality the decision should be so outrageous in

its defiance of logic or accepted moral standards that no sensible person who had

applied his mind to the question to be decided could be arrived at it. The doctrine,

proportionality, seems to be increasingly accepted in English Law as a last of

lawfulness of official act, requiring simply that excessive means should not be

employed to achieve given ends. To be unlawful for want of proportionality, a

decision must not be 'unreasonably disproportionate" or perhaps

"disproportionately disproportionate".

All those points referred to in this judgment in favour of the Petitioner

as in paragraph (a) to (0 above and the following matters which I focus from

the findings of the inquiry (lR6) would fortify Petitioner's stance on

proportionality. I observe that the punishment imposed on Petitioner is

highly unwarranted and unreasonable in terms of the law and applicable

judicial precedents.

(1) Petitioner had been found not guilty of2 counts namely charges 2:2 & 2:4 ofP3.

One charge namely 2:4 is to act in such manner to bring the 1

51 Respondent

Corporation into disrepute. Inquiring Officer observes that there was no evidence

to establish that count. 2(4). Charge emerging from 2:4 of P3 if established would

bring the 1

51 Respondent as well as the public service into disrepute. This is a

serious thing. To be exhonourated from it would definitely favour the Petitioner

and disciplinary authority should give credit for same, and should have imposed a

lesser punishment.

I I I I I I I

f I ! [ t

~ I ; \

J

1 I I I I

1 i I I I I I i I I

j I

1 I 1 i j 1 1

17

(2) Charge 2: 1 & 2:3 of P3 refer to execution of deed P2A without PrIor

approval/authority or the required Board Approval. The inquiring officer in

arriving at his conclusion states inter alia that execution of the deed is a well

planned fraudulent act. Refer to non-affixing of corporation seal, element of

fraud introduced in this way are not within the ingredients of the charge 2: 1 of

P3. It appears to be an inference on the issue of fraud.

In 1 R6 there is reference to dishonesty and fraud. These are not

ingredients of the above two counts. Dishonest intention would have to be proved

by either direct or circumstantial evidence. I cannot find any trace of it in 1 R6.

3. I also agree with the submissions of the Petitioner that the offences charged with do

not come within any of the 1 sl schedule offences of the Code. It seems to fall within

(9) & (10) of the 2nd schedule.

The written submissions filed by the Respondents refer to certain

matters not pleaded in their objections, and in fact it is in violation rule 3(8)

of the Court of Appeal (Appellate procedure) rules 1990. There is no

specific mention of non compliance with rule 3(i) of the said rules averred in

the objections. Nor does the Respondents specifically pleaded that writs

being public law remedies do not lie in respect of private law rights and

failure to have recourse to other remedies. Counsel for the Respondent

should have raised a preliminary objections on above at the oral hearing of

this application but it was not done. To put it in a broad sense as in

f I

1 I I I I I

I i

1 I 1

I

j

1 t I I I 1 I I i I 1 1 1

~ ! 1

1 i

18

paragraph 23, of the Respondent's statement of objection, would operate

unfairly against the Petitioner who had no opportunity to meet that

argument. As such I reject above objections raised in the written

submissions. However I would generally give my considered views on same.

Document P6 is a refusal by the Respondents to make available

the findings of the disciplinary inquiry. However the Respondents have

along with their statement of objections annexed to same the findings, of the

inquiring officer marked 1 R6. On one hand refuse it and thereafter complain

for not asking for it. Can one take contrary positions? Therefore the purpose

of referring to rule 3 is of no value. Further matters to be raised initially

cannot operate as a bar to the Petitioner pursumg the application,

notwithstanding the fact that compliance with rule 3 is mandatory as held in

Brown & Co. Ltd and others vs. Ratnayake 94 SLR 91 which incorporates

Basnayake 1's dicta. However this court is not inclined to grant all the relief

as prayed for in the prayer to petition of the Petitioner. Writs being

discretionary remedies of court would also mean that court could use it's

discretion to entertain or reject an application.

Petitioner would not be prevented in movmg the Court of

Appeal under Article 140 of the Constitution in an appropriate case although

r I

f J I t I

I I I 1

~ j

I l

J I I I I

1 I I ! 1 1

•

19

an alternative remedy is available. In the circumstances of the case in hand,

resort to writ jurisdiction to test the legality of documents P4 & P6 seems to

be a better remedy and the party concerned should have the option but may

not be able to pursue both remedies.

The writ jurisdiction has been enlarged in terms of the

provisions of the Constitution. Although Petitioner could have moved the

Labour Tribunal there is nothing to prevent him invoking the writ

jurisdiction of this court. In W K. C. Perera vs. Professor Daya Edirisinghe

1995(1) SLR at 156 ..

The fact that by entrenching the fundamental rights in the Constitution the

scope of the writs has become enlarged is implicit in Article 126(3), which

recognizes that a claim for relief by way of writ may also involve an allegation of

the infringement of a fundamental right. While learned Senior State Counsel is

correct in suggesting that the Appellant may have sought redress under Article

126(2), she was also entitled to apply to the Court of Appeal for Certiorari and

Mandamus, and when it appeared that there was, prima facie, an infringement of a

fundamental right, the whole matter could have been referred to this Court under

Article 126(3).

The next matter is whether the appointment of the Petitioner is

contractual and as such writ does not lie? In terms of the statute and letters

marked PI f, PI h, PI; P2b there is nothing to suggest a pure contractual right

I I ! i

~ f I

t

r ! I ! "

I I , ! j I

.~

I 1

20

to deprive a remedy by way of a writ. In fact the following section of the Act

indicates a statutory flavour.

Section 14(1) & (2) reads thus:

(1) The Board may appoint such officers and servants as it considers necessary for the

efficient discharge of its functions

(2) The officers and servants of the Board shall be remunerated in such manner and at

such rates, and shall be subject to such conditions of service, as may be determined by the

Board.

Respondents have not produced any disciplinary code or

document to suggest any contractual obligation. Therefore this court cannot

go on a voyage of discovery to find such a prohibition.

In Nanayakkara vs. The Institute of Charted Accountants of Sri

Lanka and others (J 981) 2 Sri L R 52 at 61. In the above judgment Thamiah

J. observed"

"I agree with the submission of learned Counsel fro the petitioner that the

petitioner's employment has a statutory flavour, with differentiates IS his

employment from the ordinary relationship of master and servant.

The Manual of Procedure (RI), gives rights to the employee and imposes

obligations on the employer, which go beyond the ordinary contract of service.

An employee can be dismissed only on specified grounds and he is entitled to an

inquiry before dismissal. Limitations or restrictions have been placed on the

employer's power of dismissal-he cannot dismiss his employee capriciously but

only for specified reasons and he must hold an inquiry before dismissal. If there is

to be a hearing or an inquiry, then the essential characteristics of natural justice

have to be observed"

I I I I

1 I i

j I 1

21

I have also examined the case of Premachanda vs. Bank of

Ceylon CA 678/05; Weligama Co-operative Society vs. C. Daluwatta

1984(1) SLR 195; Trade Exchange (Ceylon) vs. Asian Hotels Corporation

(1) 1981 (1) SLR 67 etc. which could be distinguished as all those cases

suggest contractual rights to prevent issue of a writ. A mere suggestion of a

contractual right is not sufficient. Party who asserts must establish with

sufficient proof. In the absence of proof petitioner could proceed by way of a

writ.

In the public service one has to give his undivided allegiance to

the state. This applies to all those serving the state either as public servants

or statutory/corporation employees. As such this category of employees

irrespective of rank should follow the applicable rules and regulations

without any kind of pressure by any person or authority suggesting irregular

practices. Any attempt or move suggesting irregular practice should be

resisted at any cost by the employees, both State and Corporations.

When I consider all the facts and circumstances of this case it

appears that the Petitioner who had an unblemished service record who

ultimately rose to the rank of Chief Executive Officer of the 1 st Respondent

Corporation was a victim of circumstances, where the main perpetrator (3 rd

•

22

Respondent) of the irregular practice as evidenced in document P8 and other

material, does not seem to have been tried by a Court or a Tribunal

competent to adjudicate. Further there is no material before us to ascertain as

to how the 1 st Respondent Corporation wishes to deal with the controversial

deed P2A. (even in the future).

In all the above circumstances this is a fit and proper case to

apply the doctrine of proportionality. As such we grant and issue an order in

the nature of a writ of certiorari quashing the decision in document P4 only.

We are not inclined to grant the other relief prayed for in his petition.

Subject to above, sub paragraph (b) of the prayer to the petition allowed with

costs. I Application allowed.

; i

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL Sathya Hettige J.

I agree.

PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL