==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. Case No.932/97(F)

DC Kandy Case No. 12762/P

1

D.G. Karunapala

Kandekumbura

Kamburegama

Kandy.

PLAINTIFF

Vs

1. R.M. Seneviratne

Kandekumbura

Kumburegama

Kandy.

2. C.T. Karunapala

Kandekumbura

Kumburegama

Kandy.

DEFENDANTS

AND NOW

R.M. Seneviratne

Kandekumbura

Kumburegama

Kandy.

1 ST DEFENDANT-APPELLANT

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

2

-vs-

D.G. Karunapala

Kandekumbura

Kumburegama

Kandy.

PLAINTIFF -RESPONDENT

C.T. Karunapala

Kandekumbura

Kumburegama

Kandy.

2ND DEFENDANT -RESPONDENT

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

: M.M.A. Gaffoor J.

: Anura Maddegoda with

A.Amarasinghe for the 1 st

Defendant Appellant.

Upul Ranjan Hewage for the

Plaintiff Respondent.

Romesh Karaliyadda for the 2nd

Defendant Respondent.

: 28th January, 2015

: 15th May, 2015

Oeepali Wijesundera J.

This appeal has been filed by the defendant appellant seeking to

set aside the judgment of the learned District Judge of Kandy delivered

on the 30th of September 1997 in a partition action. The defendant

appellant in the instant case was the first defendant in the partition case.

There was no dispute regarding the corpus "Alawalayehena" and

the pedigree of the plaintiff was admitted up to a certain point. All parties

have agreed % share of the said land was transferred to N.A.V. Rani by

deed no. 2731 (m.arked P4) by N.A. Ukku and the other % was

transferred to Ukkuhamy by deed no. 2732 (marked P2) plan marked

and no. 1273 and report was admitted by both sides. The plaintiff

claimed Lot 1 in the said plan and both first and second defendants

claimed Lot 2 shown in the said plan. The first defendant claimed the

entirety of Lot 2 whereas the first defendant has claimed only % share of

Lot 2. The plaintiff's share was not in dispute. The only dispute was

between the first and second defendant over Lot 2. The issue to be

decided is whether Rani had two daughters namely Piyaseeli and

Premawathi as decided by the District Judge.

3

The plaintiff giving evidence in the District Court has stated that

the first defendant is entitled to % share of the land owned by Rani and

marked deed 101 and 102 which is the share of one of Rani's

daughters namely Premawathi. Plaintiff has called Dharmasiri and

Wimalasiri Dissanayake who are the two sons of Piyaseeli to prove that

Rani had two daughters. They have said in evidence that Premawathi is

their mother's sister and they called her "aot} q@®J". They have said the

plaintiff is a son of Premawathi.

Plaintiffs brother G.G. Amarasiri giving evidence in chief has

stated that his mother had a sister whom he called "@@JQ) q®®J". In

cross examination he had tried to give a vague answer.

The Learned District Judge in his judgment has analyzed all the

evidence and the deeds marked before answering the issues. The

counsel for the first defendant argued that the deeds marked 1 01 and

1 02, it is stated that Y2 share of the said land is transferred to the first

defendant and that the plaintiffs argument about % share should be

rejected.

4

The learned counsel submitted that the plaintiff has marked a

deed as P6 which is not a deed written on the subject matter of this

case. The plaintiff has stated P6 was marked to prove that Piyaseeli

was a daughter of Rani and that it is regarding another land owned by

Rani. The learned District Judge has stated this in his judgment. And

there are no significant alternations made to the said deed as alleged by

the first defendant.

The counsel for the first defendant appellant submitted that the

findings of the Learned District Judge are erroneous and that the

Learned District Judge has misdirected himself and that the Learned

District Judge had failed to investigate the title of the parties as required

by the partition law. He further submitted that the District Judge has

failed to consider the evidence placed before him and only given undue

consideration to the fact that the first defendant failed to give evidence

at the trial to prove his title. The first defendant's counsel further

submitted that in view of the failure of the District Judge to properly

examine and investigate title in the light of the entirety of the evidence

the District Judge has erred in law therefore the said judgment should

be set aside and order should be given by this court to say that the

entirety of Lot 2 and the buildings in Lot 2 of plan no. 1273 shall go to

the first defendant.

5

The learned counsel for the second defendant respondent

submitted that the learned District Judge acting under Sec. 25 of the

partition law correctly analyzed the title of each partly and delivered the

judgment. He has cited the judgments in Banda Vs Dasanayake 2006

2 SLR 87 and Don Samel Vs Don Sadiris 1986 3 CACR 791 and

stated that a trial judge should safe guard the rights of the parties before

him as well as the parties who are not before court.

The second defendant further submitted that plaintiffs witness

Dharmasiri and Wimalasiri Jayasinghe and G.G. Amarasiri have given

evidence to prove that Rani had two daughters namely Piyaseeli and

Premawathie. He also stated that the first defendant by not giving

evidence failed to prove issues raised by him.

When considering the judgment of the learned District Judge it is

evident that he has very correctly evaluated the evidence placed before

him along with the documents marked before him. He has even

considered deed marked as P6 which is not a deed on the land in

dispute to find out about Rani's two daughters. He has very carefully

analyzed the evidence placed before him and very clearly in simple

language has recorded his findings.

6

It is the duty of the trial judge to evaluate evidence and examine

the title of each party. When the trial judge has examined the title fully

and had come to a finding the court of Appeal can not interfere with the

findings of the District Judge. In the instant case the District Judge has

very clearly evaluated the evidence and has come to his finding on the

title. Therefore I decide it is not necessary in law for this court to

interfere with the findings of the learned District Judge. I affirm the

judgment of the learned District Judge dated 30/09/1997 and dismiss

the appeal of the appellant with costs fixed at Rs. 25,000/=.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

M.M.A. Gaffoor J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

7