==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA (PHC) 60/2011 HC Chilaw Case No: 03/2010

Yakdehige Mahesh Priyadarshana Fernando No: 313/B, Dehiyagana, Ja-Ela

Petitioner Appellant Vs. OIC Police Station, Wennappuwa. Hon. Attorney General Attorney General’s Department Colombo 12.

Respondents

C.A (PHC) 60/2011

Before

Counsel

Argued & decided on

Rohini Marasinghe J.

HC Chilaw Case No: 03/2010.

Rohini Marasinghe J. &

Deepali Wijesundera, J.

Neranjan Jayasinghe for the Accused-

Appellant.

Anoopa De Silva S.C for the Respondent ..

22.01.2013.

The Petitioner had filed this application to revise the order of High Court

Judge dated 05.05.2011 and the order of the Magistrate dated 22.01.2010

wherein the lorry bearing No: WPGR 8585 had been confiscated. The said

orders for confiscation had been made in terms of section 3A of the Animals

Act 29 of 1958 as amended by Act No: 10 of 1968.

The Petitioner is the owner of the lorry which had been detected by police

transporting 33 heads of cattle and 3 heads of buffalos without a permit.

The detection had been made on 07.07.2008. The driver and the cleaner of

the lorry had been charged under section 3 of the Animals Act. They had

r

ttt

- 2 -

pleaded guilty and fined. Therefore, learned Magistrate took steps to

confiscate the lorry in terms of section 3A of the Act.

The Petitioner sought to show cause against the confiscation. An inquiry

was held. The Petitioner had given evidence. In his evidence he had stated

that he was a businessman doing hotel catering services. The lorry is

parked in the town and could be hired. He also stated that the lorry had

never transported cattle prior to this date. And, he also had stated that he

would not allow cattle to be transported in his lorry under any

circumstance. The inquiry closed with this evidence. After inquiry the

I

learned Magistrate by his order confiscated the lorry on the basis that the

petitioner had not taken all precautions to prevent the use of his vehicle for

the commission of the offence. The learned High Court Judge affirmed the

order of the Magistrate on the same premise.

The manner in which a confiscation of the vehicle should be approached by

court had been succinctly dealt in the case of Faris V. Police Station

Galenbindunuwewa and Another [1992] 1 SLR page 168 at 169.

In terms of the section 3A of the Animals Act, an order for confiscation

cannot be made if the owner establishes one of two matters. They are- (1)

that he taken all precautions to prevent the use of the vehicle for the

commission of the offence (2) That the vehicle had been used for the

l! 1

~

~

~

f I'I

I

- 3-

commission of the offence without his knowledge. Therefore, if the owner

establishes any once of offence without his knowledge. Therefore, if the

owner establishes any one of these matters on a balance of probability, an

order for confiscation should not be made.

In this case it is clear that in the impugned orders the learned Judges had

been of the view that the petitioner had not taken all precautions to prevent

the use of the vehicle for the commission of the offence. But, the court

should have taken into consideration the evidence led by the petitioner in

regard to the second element- meaning knowledge. The court should

examme whether the petitioner had knowledge of the offence.

Notwithstanding the fact that the petitioner had not taken all precautions

to prevent the use of the vehicle for the commission of the offence, if the

petitioner adduced evidence in regard to lack of knowledge, that fact should

have been duly considered by court. It had not happened in this case.

Therefore, we allow the application of the petitioner and grant the prayer 'b'

in favour of the petitioner and refer the case back for fresh inquiry directing

the court to considerer the case of Faris in the correct manner as stated in

the judgment.

We also direct that the vehicle (if not already released ) be released to the

petitioner in a sum of Rs.500,000 personal bail, subject to the condition

- 4-

that the vehicle shall not be sold, and that no act shall be done to the

vehicle to depreciate its prevent value and that it would be submitted to

court on demand.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Deepali Wijesundera.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Vkg/-