==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Application No: 738 I 95 (F)

District Court Kurunega,la

Case No: 3226/L

1. Hitihamilage Bandaramenika of

Hindagolla. (deceased)

2. Hitihamilage Wijerathna Banda of

Hindagolla. (deceased)

Plaintiffs.

- Vs. -

1. Hitihamilage

Hindagolla.

Bisomenika

2. Hitihamilage Kusumawathie Menike.

Defendants.

AND NOW IN THE MATTER OF A FINAL

APPEAL BETWEEN:

of

Hitihamilage Hemawathi Menike alias

Somawathie Menike.

Sub post office,

Hindagol/a.

SUbstituted Defendant-Appellant

- Vs. -

1. Hitihamilage

Hindagolla.

Bandaramenika

2. Hitihamilage Wijerathna Banda of

Plai ntiff- Respondents

'-.

of

Counsel: S.N. Vijithsingh for the Defendants/ Appellants.

Kaushalya Tilakratne for the Plaintiffs/ Respondents

. Written submissions: 27-4-20 11 (Defendants/Appellants)

Before: Rohini Marasinghe J

Judgment 8-7-2011

CA 738-95

The PlaintiffslRespondents (hereinafter referred to as plaintiffs) had

instituted action se,eking a declaration of title to the land described in the

schedule to the plaint. The 1 st plaintiff got title to the land in suit through a

person named Nambirala. The defendants also claimed title thorough the

same source. After trial the judgment was entered in favour of the plaintiffs.

The defendants appealed.

The 1 st plaintiff and the 1 st defendants are two sisters. Their father was the

said Nambirala. The 2nd defendant is the daughter of the 1st defendant. The

original owner of this land was the said Nambirala. By virtue of a partition

decree in case bearing No: 24961P dated 22-7-1948 the said Nambirala was

allotted the lot 6 depicted in the partition plan No: 3981 A.

1

The 1 st plaintiff had given evidence at the trial. Her evidence disclosed the

following;

By virtue of the partition decree which was marked as PI the aforesaid

Nambirala became the absolute owner of the lot 6 depicted in plan No: 3981

A. The said Nambirala had transferred that lot 6 to the 1 st plaintiff and to

one Punchimanike by deed 313. (P2). The said Punchmanike had died

intestate. The heirs of said punchimanike by deed No: 24562 (P4) had

transferred that share to Wijeratnes Banda who was one of their brothers.

The said Wijeratna Banda is the 2nd plaintiff in this case. Consequently, the

1 st and the 2nd plaintiffs became the owners of the land in suit. The

plaintiffs' complain was that the defendant had encroached into a portion of

their land in January 1988. The defendants as alleged by the plaintiff had

constructed a house by filling the paddy land which belonged to the

plaintiffs.

The Licensed Surveyor named Galagedera had given evidence on behalf of

the plaintiffs. In his evidence he had stated that the land in issue was

surveyed by him and the plan was superimposed on lot 6 of plan 3981 A.

The superimposed plan No: 2999 was marked as "X". In the said plan "X"

the land in issue is depicted as lots 1 and 2. In the said plan the encroached

area by the defendants was shown in red. In the evidence the surveyor stated

that the encroached area was in lot 2. The lot 1 is a high land and the lot2

was a paddy land. The surveyor further stated that the paddy land had been

filled and a house had been built recently on that paddy land depicted in the

said plan as lot 2. These facts were observed by the surveyor when he went

to survey the land in November 1988.

2

The defendants and a surveyor named Welagedera had given evidence for

the defendants. The plan bearing No: 3370 dated 30-11-1987 (V6) was

marked in evidence. The case of the defendants was briefly as follows:

The father of the 1 st defendant namely aforesaid Nambirala by deed No:

11156 (V2) had gifted the land in suit to his children. This was a paddy land

cultivated on thatuu marru basis. That is after one party had cultivated for

one year another party cultivates that paddy land the next year.

Consequently, the defendants' position was that they become entitled to

cultivate the said land once in every 5 years.

The first question is whether the defendants could claim title to the land in

suit from the deed marked as V2. The deed marked as V2 had been

executed before the partition decree. The character of a partition decree is

such that it wiped out all previous titles to the land in suit.. Consequently,

the defendants' titl€ had got wiped out after the Decree in the partition

case.

The next issue was with regard to the prescriptive title claimed by the

defendants. The principle is when the legal title and a title based on

prescription are in issue, the court should first endeavor to ascertain in which

party the legal title is vested. If neither party had been successful in

establishing the legal title then the court should proceed to decide on the

issue of prescription. It is common for every party in land actions relating to

title to lands, to plead prescriptive title in addition to the title on deeds. The

prescriptive title in short is a question of fact, where a party seeks without

documentary title or deeds to establish long and continued exclusive

possession which had become adverse for more than ten years before the

3

action is brought. In the written submissions the defendants had not

addressed this point. The position of the defendants as mentioned in the

written submissions was that, since there was an amicable plan bearing No:

3370 (VI) between the co-owners to the 5 lots depicted in the said plan, the

earlier partition decree had no legal validity. I cannot agree with those

submissions. Notwithstanding the fact the plaintiff was not a party to that

plan, a partition decree cannot be vitiated by a subsequent plan to which all

the co-owners had not consented. The surveyor who made this plan was one

Sarath Chandra Bandara. His evidence is at pages 4 -6 of the proceedings

dated 19-3-1993. The surveyor was asked as to who was present at the

survey. The surveyor could not remember any person other than the

defendant being present on the day of the survey. In my opinion this plan

cannot be accepted a plan made with the consent of all the co-owners.

F or these reasons the judgment of the District Court is affirmed. The appeal

is dismissed. V

Rohini Marasinghe J

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

4