==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 798 I 2000 F D.C. Colombo No. 35633/99/MS

1. Chandrika Kamalika Koralage, 2. Udeni Chandrika Hikkadu Koralage, Both of No. 30, Skelton Road, Colombo 5.

Petitioners

Vs.

1. Kodikara Arachchige Ranjith Kodikara, 2. Srimathie Lalitha Kodikara alias Srimathie Lalitha Perera Okandapola, Both ofNo. 981,

Sri J ayawardenapura Mawatha, Welikada, Rajagiriya. 3. Registrar General of Lands, Office of the Registrar General, Duplication Road, Colombo 3.

Respondents

AND NOW BETWEEN

1. Kodikara Arachchige Ranjith Kodikara, 2. Srimathie Lalitha Kodikara alias Srimathie Lalitha Perera Okandapola, Both ofNo. 981,

Sri J ayawardenapura Mawatha, Welikada, Rajagiriya.

Respondent Appellants

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

Vs

1. Chandrika Kamalika Koralage, 2. Udeni Chandrika Hikkadu Koralage, Both of No. 30, Skelton Road, Colombo 5.

Petitioner Respondents

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

D.M.A. Kannangara for the Respondent

Appellants

Samantha Vithana with Sujatha Dikkumbura

for the Petitioner Respondents

05.11.2012

10.07.2013

The Petitioner Respondents (hereinafter referred to as the

Respondents) have instituted an action against the Respondent Appellants

(hereinafter referred to as the Appellants) in the District Court of Colombo by way

of summary procedure seeking for cancellation of Caveats registered in Volume M

1209 at folio 165 (M/1209/165) and Volume M 2319 at folio 147 (M/2319/147).

The Appellants have filed their statement of objections seeking for a dismissal of

-.

3

the said action of the Respondents. The learned Additional District Judge by order

dated 29.09.2000 has held in favour of the Respondents. The Appellants have

appealed to this Court from the said order.

At the hearing of this appeal the learned counsel for the Appellants

submitted that the action of the Respondents should have been dismissed in limine

since the affidavit filed with the Petition was bad in law. I now advert to the said

submission.

In terms of section 437 of the Civil Procedure Code whenever

evidence on affidavit is required for production in any application or action of

summary procedure, whether already instituted or about to be instituted, an

affidavit or written statement of facts conforming to the provisions of section 181

may be sworn or affirmed to by the person professing to make the statement

embodied in the affidavit before any court or Justice of the Peace or Commissioner

for Oaths within the local limits of whose jurisdiction he is at the time residing,

and the fact that the affidavit appears to be entitled in an action in a competent

court shall be sufficient authority to such court or Justice of the Peace or

Commissioner to administer the oath or affirmation.

The Respondents in their affidavit has stated that " .......... we being

Buddhist Solemnly, sincerely and truly declare as follows;" It appears that the

Respondents being Buddhist have not affirmed before making the declaration.

According to form 75 of the first schedule to the Civil Procedure Code if a

Buddhist person makes an affidavit, it should be commenced with an affirmation to

the effect that " ....... being a Buddhist Solemnly, sincerely and truly affirm and

declare as follows;" In the alleged affidavit the Respondents have been referred to

4

as mere declarants. A mere declaration in my view would not tantamount to an

affirmation. The sanctity attached to an affirmation is clearly lacking.

The learned counsel submitted that even the jurat clause is without an

affirmation. I have perused the jurat of the affidavit. It is amply clear that the

Commissioner for Oaths has not administered an affirmation as required by law.

The law requires that the jurat must mention the fact of an oath being admitted or

affirmation made. Section 437 of the Code provides that an affidavit must be

sworn or affirmed to by the person professing to make the statement embodied in

the affidavit before any court, Justice of the Peace or Commissioner for Oaths.

In the said circumstances I am of the view that the affidavit filed by

the Respondents is not an affidavit which has any legal validity or sanctity and

hence there was no affidavit as required by law filed with the petition. Therefore

the Respondents' action needs to have been rejected in limine resulting in the

absence of a proper affidavit under Chapter xxiv of the Civil Procedure Code.

For the forgoing reasons I set aside the order of the learned Additional

District Judge dated 29.09.2000 and dismiss the action of the Respondents. The

Appeal of the Appellants is allowed with costs.

Appeal allowed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal