==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

1

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

1. Sudu Hakuruge Jamis.

2. Kuda Liyanage Premaratne

Perera alias Oliver.

Accused -Appellan ts.

-Vs.-

The Attorney General.

Responden t.

CA 204/2010 HC RATNAPURA 98/2001

Before: Sisira J De Abrew, J. &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J.

Counsel: Caniskka Witharana for the 1st Accused-Appellant.

Neranjan Jayasinghe for the 2nd Accused-Appellant.

Thusith Mudalige SSC for the A.G.

Argued on: 12.11.2013 and 13.11.2013

Decided on: 13.11.2013.

fII!

\

f

2

Sisira J De Abrew, J.

Heard Counsel for both parties m support of their

respective cases. The Accused-Appellants in this case were

convicted of the murder of a woman named Doloswala Batahenage

Kusumawathie and were sentenced to death. Being aggrieved by

the said conviction and the sentence they have appealed to this

Court. Before I deal with the facts of this case, I would like to

comment on certain misdirections committed by the learned Trial

judge in his judgment. The both accused-appellants in this case

gave evidence under oath. Learned Trial Judge has observed

that he was unable to consider the credibility of the evidence of the

2nd accused as he was present in Court when the 1 st accused

gave evidence. In short he was of the opinion that when one

accused gives evidence the other accused should be removed

from the dock. I have to state here that above observation made

by the learned trial judge is wrong. The accused persons are

entitled to be present in Court until the conclusion of the full trial

unless the trial judge makes an order under Section 241 of the

Criminal Procedure Code to remove the accused from the dock by

reason of his conduct in Court. I hold that the learned trial judge

was wrong when he made the above observation. Both accused-

appellants, in their evidence, took up the defence of alibi. The

learned trial judge had observed that in order to accept the defence

t l l I

~ I

3

of alibi the accused must be away at least 50 K.m. or 100 K.m.

from the scene of the offence. He has come to this conclusion

after considering the illustration in Section 11 of the Evidence

Ordinance. I must mention here that the learned Trial Judge has

made a mistake in considering the illustration in Section 11 of the

Evidence Ordinance. The above conclusion reached by the

learned trial judge IS clearly wrong. It is not necessary to give

further reasons as the error made by the learned Trial Judge is

very obvious. We note that he had convicted both accused-

appellants after committing the above mis-directions. Learned

Senior State Counsel upholding the best traditions of the

Attorney General's Department informs this Court that he is not

supporting the conviction. We are pleased with this submission.

The case for the prosecution depended on circumstantial evidence.

Since it is based on circumstantial evidence, I would like to

consider certain judicial decisions relating to the principles

governing cases of circumstantial evidence.

In King Vs. Abeywickrama 44 NLR page 254 Soertsz J. remarked

as follows:

«In order to base a conviction on circumstantial evidence the

jury must be satisfied that the evidence was consistent with

the guilt of the accused and inconsistent with any

reasonable hypothesis of his innocence"

I

it

,

i ! I 1 I

4

In King Vs. Appuhamy 46 NLR page 128 Keuneman J held that

"In order to justify the inference of guilt from purely

circumstantial evidence, the inculpatory facts must be

incompatible with the innocence of the accused and incapable

of explanation upon any other reasonable hypothesis than

that of his guilt."

In Podisingho Vs. King 53 NLR page 49 Dias J held that

"In a case of circumstantial evidence it is the duty of the

trial Judge to tell the jury that such evidence must be totally

inconsistent with the innocence of the accused and must

only be consistent with his guilt."

In Emperor Vs. Browning (1917) 18 Cr.L.J. 482 Court held

((the jury must decide whether the facts proved exclude the

possibility that the act was done by some other person, and

if they have doubts, the prisoner must have the benefit of

those doubts. "

Applying the principles laid down in the above judicial

decisions, I hold that in a case of circumstantial evidence if the

Court is going to arrive at a conclusion that the accused is guilty

iI I

II

5

of the offence, such an inference must be the one and only

irresistible and inescapable conclusion that the accused himself

committed the crime. Further I hold that if the proved facts are

not consistent with the guilt of the accused, he must be

acquitted.

Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as follows:

The deceased woman Kusumawathie was a teacher attached

to the village school. Every morning she used to leave home

around 6.30 in the morning. On 18.10.1990 when Yogarajah was

walking on the road, the lSt accused came from a certain location

in front of him and slapped him. According to Yogarajah, the 1st

accused thereafter dragged him to a place which was 100 feet

away from the road. Then he saw the 2nd accused who was

wearing a batik sarong and a shirt standing near a woman who

was lying fallen. Yogarajah later says that this woman is the

deceased woman in this case. According to Yogarajah at the time

he went there the 2nd accused was raping the woman who was

lying fallen. It has to be noted here that he came out with this

version only in the cross-examination. Thereafter, Yogarajah was

asked to drop a rock on the body of the woman who was lying

fallen. Thereafter, the 2nd accused remarking that it was not the

way to drop the rock, took the rock and dropped it again on the

f t 1 .1

7

on the other part. Yogarajah who saw the gruesome incident

which I have narrated earlier did not decide to go to the police

station. He went to the cinema and came back. According to him

on the instructions of the 2nd accused he too committed a

criminal act. According to him the 1 st and the 2nd accused were

not known to him. He left the area with his wife and came back

rv' only after six weeks. But the accused-appellants went and

informed what they saw to Damunupola and on the same day

they went and informed the police of what they saw. Under these

circumstances I have to ask the following question. Whose

behaviour is suspicious? Is it the behaviour of the accused-

appellants or the behaviour of Yogarajah? The clear answer is

that Yogarajah's behaviour. Under these circumstances the

question has to be asked whether this Court can affirm the

conviction on the evidence of Yogarajah. This question has to be

answered in the negative.

According to Yogarajah he was dragged to the place of the

incident and the 1 st accused made him to see the gruesome

incident. If the 1st and the 2nd accused committed the murder of

the woman, will they drag witnesses to witness the incident? Will

they drag witnesses to implicate them? It is difficult to think that

the offender after committing the murder, would drag a witness

tII!,

I

J 1 I I

8

to the place of the incident to witness it. Therefore in the first

place, I hold that the evidence of Yogarajah does not satisfy the

test of probability.

Yogarajah says that when he went to the place, the 2nd

accused raped the woman who was lying fallen. Will the 2nd

accused commit the act of rape in the presence of two males?

Can one think that a person will commit the act of rape in the

presence of two male persons one of whom is going to be a witness

in open air and broad day light except when the two male persons

are also assisting the rapist and/or waiting to take turn. But

according to Yogarajah, he or the 1 st accused were not behaving in

the above manner. In fact according to the medical evidence, the

deceased woman had not been sexually assaulted. There is no

medical evidence to support the contention that she had been

raped. It is difficult to accept the evidence of Yogarajah on this

point. For the above reasons, I hold that the evidence of

Yogarajah again does not satisfy the test of probability.

Y ogarjah's wife whose name 1S Suppiah Marriyar was a

witness on the back of the indictment. According to Journal

Entries she had been present in Court prior to the conclusion of

the prosecution case. She had been warned by Court to be

If I' I I III! { !

t I l I I J I i i I ij I

I

! ! !

•

9

present. But unfortunately the learned prosecuting State Counsel

had failed to call wife of Yogarajah as a witness. If wife of

Yogarajah was called as a witness, in my view, the decision of

the trial judge would have been different. Under these

circumstances it is necessary to consider whether an adverse

inference can be drawn from the failure on the part of the

prosecutor to call wife of Yogarajah as a witness. Section 114(f)

is as follows:

« the Court may presume that evidence which could be and is

not produced would if produced, be unfavorable to the person

who with holds ie'.

I think this is a fit case to draw the inference under Section 114 (f)

of the Evidence Ordinance. In my view the prosecutor refrained

from calling the wife of Yogarajah because if she was called as a

witness, as I pointed out earlier, the decision of the trial judge

would have been different. When I consider all these matters I

hold that the proved facts are not compatible with the guilt of the

accused-appellants. Therefore they cannot be convicted for the

offence. Considering all these matters, I hold that the prosecution

has not proved its case beyond reasonable doubt. I therefore set

aside the conviction and both death sentences imposed on the

accused-appellants and acquit the accused-appellants. Accused-

!

~: I ! I j j I

I I I I

t

•

10

appellants have been sentenced to death on 27.08.2010. I state

that the Prison Authorities are not entitled to keep the two

accused-appellants in their custody when they receive a copy of

this judgment. I hereby nullify the committal signed by the

learned trial judge sentencing the accused-appellants to death.

This Court hopes that the Attorney General would take steps to

re-investigate the case against Yogarajah who had given evidence

in this case.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL!.

P.W.D.C.Jayathilake J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

Mmj-

j

j

I1i II

6

body of the woman who was lying fallen. Yogarajah who had

decided in the morning to go to a cinema in Ratnapura without

informing the police or anybody went and saw the film. When he

came back, he divulged the entire incident to his wife. Following

day Yogarajah left his house and came back only after six weeks.

Yogarajah admits that he divulged the entire incident to his wife.

One day he started fighting with his wife. Then the wife had

addressed Yogarajah in the following language: "Are you trying to

kill me in the same way that you killed the woman". These

utterances were heard by a person in the neighbourhood. This

it..-("}....-- was brought to the notice of police through some witnesses and

" the police questioned Yogarajah and his wife. Police later

arrested the 1 st and the 2nd accused. The accused-appellants

gave evidence under oath. According to them when they were

walking in the tea estate belongs to Damunupola, they saw a

woman lying fallen and also noticed a rock on the top of the body

of the woman. They immediately brought this matter to the

notice of the owner of the estate Damunupola. On

Damunupola's instructions, both accused-appellants went and

complained to the police. It has to be noted that they went and

lodged a complaint at the relevant police station on the same day

(18/ 10/ 1990). It is relevant to consider the behaviour of both

accused-appellants on one part and the behaviour of Yogarajah

Ij !t ! !, i I

I

I

1I,

,

! I

ttttJ