==== BLOCKS ==== 

• ,

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A 60711998 (F) D.C. Panadura 1711L

H. D. Peiris Thilakapala 201, Pamunugama, Alubomulla.

PLAINTIFF

Vs.

1. G. Malini 2. G. Sarath Dharmasiri

Both of 201, Pamunugama, Alubomulla.

DEFENDANTS

AND

1. G. Malini 2. G. Sarath Dharmasiri

Both of 201, Pamunugama, Alubomulla.

DEFENDANTS-APPELLANTS

Vs.

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERA TNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J.

H. D. Peiris Thilakapala 201, Pamunugama, Alubomulla.

PLAINTIFF -RESPONDENT

P. Yakgahawita for Defendant-Appellants

S. Delgoda with T. K. Hirimuthugoda for Plaintiff-Respondents

13.02.2012

31.05.2012

2

This was an action filed in the District Court of Panadura for a

declaration of a servitude for a 10 foot wide roadway over Defendant's land

to access Plaintiffs residence. The prayer to the plaint in the alternative

seeks the said roadway on grounds of necessity. There is also a prayer to

grant compensation to Defendant if the roadway is permitted by court.

Damages are also claimed for obstructions caused by Defendant from 1986

3

at Rs. 50/- per mensum. Parties proceeded to trial on 11 issues and one

admission. It was admitted that the land described in the 2

nd schedule to the

plaint is owned by the Defendants. Issues No.2 is regarding Plaintiffs

entitlement to the land described in 1 st schedule to the plaint. Issue No.3 is

to the effect that there was in fact a servitude in favour of the Plaintiff s for a

10 foot roadway over the land comprised in schedule 2 of the plaint. The

roadway referred to in issue No.2 is shown in plan 583 as lot 1 (issue No 3).

Issue No. 4 is regarding the resistance or objections of Defendants on

12.8.1988 caused to Plaintiff. Judgment was entered in favour of Plaintiff on

1.6.1996, except in answer to issue No. 8 the learned District Judge has not

allowed any payment as compensation to the Defendant-Appellants.

It was the position of the Appellant that there was no existing

roadway and Plaintiff-Respondent in law is not entitled to such roadway of

necessity. Appellant's further contended that there is a shorter or an alternate

roadway over the land of Edwin Perera as depicted as 'E' & 'D' in plan

2406. The Appellant's attempted to show that Plaintiff had a footpath over

the land of Hewage Aslin Perera, shown in dotted lines leading to the

cemetery road over premises marked 'G' in plan 2406 (VI) (Plan of

surveyor Costa). However the report of Surveyor Costa itself indicate (Folio

4

232, in paragraph 5) that the foot path was not found on the ground or did

not exist. Having perused the above plan and submission of Plaintiff-

Respondent it is evident that due to several structures on lot 'G' it is not

viable to have a roadway demarcated over the said land in the manner

suggested by the Appellant. It appears that there is justification to consider

the roadway suggested by Plaintiff-Respondent as maintained by Plaintiff, in

both courts.

The entirety of the evidence placed in the Original Courts

suggest and support the Plaintiff-Respondent's view on road way. Surveyor

K.G. Fernando states there was no foot path as alleged by Defendant-

Appellant. It is clearly demarcated in plan PI, No. 583 the roadway

suggested by Plaintiff (lot I). The Police Officer who conducted

investigations on roadway has in his evidence in the District Court (pg. 104)

confirmed the roadway over Defendant's land, as only means of access to

Plaintiff. In evidence Plaintiff states it is not possible to ride even a bicycle

over the suggested foot path by Defendant-Appellant (93 & 99 Folios). On

the question of user of the roadway the following points and evidence to be

noted.

(a) The Plaintiff has given clear and cogent evidence that the roadway claimed by

him was used from the time of his predecessor as far back as 1967 when the

5

rubber trees on his land were removed and transported using lorries and tractors

along the said roadway.

(b) He goes on to state that subsequently a house was built on the said land in 1971

and that the building materials for this purpose were also transported using

vehicles along the said roadway.

(c) The evidence of Peter J ayasuriya, the Chairman of the Death Donation Society of

the area, also lends credence to the Plaintiffs testimony since he states that items

belonging to the said Death Donation Society were stored in the Plaintiff shouse

and transported using the roadway in question.

The 1 st Defendant according to the evidence led at the trial came to

live in the house claimed by her in 1985 (2 years prior to filing action) and

cannot have any knowledge of usage of the road in question. Defendants

also having called witnesses to support their case, and supported by the

following authorities cited by Respondent, are useful to arrive at a final

decision in this appeal.

A case on actual necessity. Rosalin Fernando Vs. P.L.P. Alwis

61 NLR 302 ...

Survitude - Way of necessity - Burden of Proof.

In a claim made by the plaintiff for a right of footway of necessity to

enable her to obtain access from her land to the nearest public road-

Held, that when a Court is called upon to decide a question of the grant of a right of way

of necessity a proper test to be applied is whether the actual necessity of the case

demands the grant of the right of way. In such a case it is not necessary that the plaintiff

should establish that the way claimed is the only means of access from his land to the

6

public road. If an alternative route is too difficult and inconvenient, the actual necessity

of the case is the determining factor.

Mercin V. Edwin & Others 1984 (1) SLR 224 ....

Right of way - Prescriptive user-Does the mere enjoyment of the right amount to adverse

user?

The plaintiff filed action claiming a right of way from his land over two lands belonging

the defendants, by virtue of prescriptive user and also as a way of necessity. I defendants

denied the existence of the alleged right of way and averred that plaintiff s land was

bounded on the South by the V.C road from which he could obtain access to his land.

The Magistrate dismissed the plaintiff s action on the ground that he had failed to

establish that he had prescribed to the right claimed and that even if he had used right of

way claimed by him he had done so with the leave and licence of the defendant and

further that he had access to the V. C road.

Held-

In the circumstances of this case once the plaintiff establish physical user of the way for

the prescriptive period, he was entitled to succeed on the issue of prescriptive user. The

mere enjoyment of the right is proof of adverse user. On the evidence the plaintiff has

proved adverse user of the right of way claimed by him over the prescriptive period, and

is therefore entitled to the right of way claimed and to be restored to the possession

thereof.

In Ceylon a right of way can only be acquired by user under the

Prescription Ordinance and the course or track over which the right is

acquired is necessarily strictly defined 15 NLR at 259; 31 NLR 126. The

7

material placed before the Original Court no doubt indicates that the track

over which (the road) the right is acquired is strictly and correctly defined by

Plaintiff in evidence.

In all the facts and circumstance of this case it is apparent that

the actual necessity of the case demands that Plaintiff need to get relief in

the manner pleaded in his plaint which are supported by evidence lead on his

behalf. The Plaintiff is not claiming this right on mere convenience but for a

real necessity. It is no doubt a question of fact and all the facts and

circumstances support the case of the Plaintiff. As such I affirm the learned

District Judge's judgment and dismiss his appeal without costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL