==== BLOCKS ==== 

( I I I I I

f ! I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

C.A.Writ Application No. 82/2007

In the matter of an Application for mandates in

the nature of Writs of Certiorari and/or

Prohibition.

1. Utsch Lanka (Pvt) Ltd,

No.26 Anderson Road,

Colombo 5.

2. George Lopez

27, Anderson Road,

Colombo 5.

3. Jan Vlaskamp

Au Couders Haut,

Paulin 24590

Saliganic Eyvgues,

France.

And also of

27, Anderson Road,

Colombo 5.

4. Nihal Hettiarachchi

107 A Devala Road

Nugegoda.

Petitioners

Vs

1. Poothathamby Yoganathan

Deputy Director of Customs

Department of Customs,

Times Building, Colombo 1

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued on

Written Submissions on

Decided on

S.Sriskandarajah It

2. Director General of Customs,

Department of Customs,

Times Building, Colombo 1.

3. Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

Respondents

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J.

Nigel Hatch PC with Ranjith de Alwis,

Ms.K.Geekiyanage and Ms. P. Abeywicrama

for the Petitioner.

F.Jameel DSG

for the Respondents.

12.01.2011 & 25.02.2011

Petitioner: 01.04.2011

Respondent: 04.04.2011

28.04.2011

2

Erich Utsch AG ( a company incorporated under the laws of Germany) entered into

an agreement with the Commissioner of Motor Traffic on the 11th of October 1999

(P3) for the manufacture, supply and delivery of retro-reflective number plates with

embossed number and 3rd number plate sticker for windscreen for a period of five

years subject to the terms and conditions of the said agreement. The 1st Petitioner

Company was incorporated in Sri Lanka to facilitate the above agreement. The 1st

Petitioner in order to perform its business entered into a license agreement with the

said Erich Utsch AG of Germany on 21st March 2000 (P5). In terms of this agreement

Erich Utsch AG as licensor granted an exclusive right to the 1st Petitioner to use the

v

3

necessary technology expertise and to obtain the training required by the 1st

Petitioner as licensee in connection with the manufacture, supply and delivery of

retro-reflective number plates with embossed number and 3rd number plate sticker

for windscreen. The terms and conditions of the said agreement include a payment

of royalty fee of ten per cent (10%) per annum of the total turnover of the 1st

Petitioner as per the audited accounts. Even though the said agreement P5 did not

specify the role of the 1st Petitioner in executing the agreement P3, according to the

evidence the 1st Petitioner's role is engaging in the business of embossing and

printing motor vehicle numbers in blank plates imported from Erich Utsch AG and

delivering the completed number plates for vehicles as an when required by the

Commissioner of Motor Traffic in terms of agreement P3. A building belonging to

the Commissioner of Motor Traffic has been given to the 1st Petitioner for the storage

of imported blank plates and to emboss numbers in the blank plates.

The 1st Petitioner imported blank plates and other raw materials for this purpose

from Erich Utsch AG on a commercial basis after making the purchase price for the

goods imported. For the purpose of this importation the Petitioners submitted that

they relied on an advise sought and obtained by Asia Capital Ltd on a Tariff

Classification on the applicable Harmonized System (HS code) to the samples

attached to the application No TC/99/177 dated 25.11.1999. The tariff classification

advice was that the HS Code applicable to the product described in the application

as per sample is 7616.00. The sample submitted with the said application according

to the Petitioners is a blank aluminium plate containing yellow and white reflective

sheeting with government emblem, laser branded serial number and ensure marks .

. The Respondents admitted that samples were given to the customs to obtain a ruling

but denied any markings in the blank aluminium plates. As the samples submitted

are not available with the customs it is not possible to verify this position. The Asia

Capital Ltd sought and obtained this Tariff Classification as it was the local agent for

Erich Utsch AG prior to the incorporation of the 1st Petitioner Company. As advised

the 1st Petitioner had been declaring the imported aluminium blank plates to

v

4

customs under this HS code until one of the imports was questioned at the

examination point of customs in January 2003. This required the Petitioner to obtain

a second ruling and it was obtained on 24.07.2003. According to the 2nd classification

advise the goods are classified under Harmonized System (HS code) 8310.00.

The Customs investigations into the imports of blank number plates by the 1st

Petitioner commenced in 2004. An inquiry was held under the Customs Ordinance

in the year 2006. The Inquiry proceeded on the basis of suspicion that the offences of

misdescription and undervaluation of the goods imported were committed.

The Petitioners were charged by the customs in relation to 53 consignments

imported by M/S Utsch Lanka (Pvt) Ltd from M/ s Erich Utsch AG of Germany

since 25th April 2000 to 24th March 2005. The items imported are rectangular

aluminium plates of various dimensions ( with rounded corners and raised edges,

covered with a reflective foil with several lion water marks , pre-engraved secret

numbers and the national emblem of Sri Lanka), hot stamping foils, 3rd licence plate

stickers, TTR foils. These items were intended for the embossing and printing of

motor vehicle number plates.

The charges levelled against the Petitioners were as follows:

(1) M/S Utsch Lanka (PVT) Ltd pays annually a royalty to M/S Erich Utsch AG of

Germany which is 10% of the total turnover of the respective financial year.

The importer has failed in all the instances to declare the royalty payments to

the Customs which is dutiable. As a result the importer has defrauded

Rs.49,773,031/= of government revenue. The total actual value of the

consignment is Rs 392,008,184/= whereas the total declared value is

Rs.335,692,996/=. Therefore the importer and the declarant shall be dealt with

in terms of Section 47 and 52 of the Customs Ordinance.

if11

~tti

,

.'

5

(2) Out of the 53 consignments the importer has failed wilfully to classify and pay

the customs duty and other levies correctly on the aluminium based plates on

22 occasions.

The Petitioners' position with regard to the payment of royalty (1st charge); is that

the payment of royalty by the Petitioners is on a local transaction between the 1st

Petitioner and the Commissioner of Motor Traffic which is not within the scope of

the Customs Ordinance as amended in 2003 and/ or as royalties are not paid

directly or indirectly by the 1st Petitioner as a condition of the sale of the goods being

valued, instead it is paid by the 1st Petitioner for the provision of technology used in

relation to the embossing and printing of numbers in imported blank plates.

With regard to the 2nd charge the Petitioners contended that at all material time the

1 st Petitioner not only sought tariff classification ruling in relation to the

classification of goods imported by the 1st Petitioner but also abided by the ruling

given by the Customs in declaring the goods at the time of importation.

At the conclusion of the inquiry the Petitioners were called upon by the 1st

Respondent to show cause for charges framed against them and the order was

delivered on 16.01.2007 as follows:

(a) Order forfeit M/ s Utsch Lanka (Pvt) Ltd represented by Mr. George Salis

Lopez, Director - General Manager, Mr. Jan Vlaskamp, Director and Mr.

RN.Hettiarachchi, Director, Rs.184,260,095/ -in terms of Section 47 of the

Customs Ordinance ( Chapter 235);

(b) Order forfeit M/ s Utsch Lanka (Pvt) Ltd represented by Mr. George Salis

Lopez, Director - General Manager, Mr. Jan Vlaskamp, Director and Mr.

RN.Hettiarachchi, Director Rs.88,609,608/ - at my election in terms of section

52 and 166B of customs Ordinance( Chapter 235);

f I

! ! II I i

~

~ ,

! t

~ i

~

~ ! !l Il f I ! I I Ii r " r t ! t

f Jl ! 1

6

(c) Order forfeit Mr. George Salis Lopez, Director - General Manager, Rs.

10,000,000/ - in terms of Section 129 and 166B of the Customs Ordinance

(Chapter 235).

(d) Order forfeit Mr. Jan Vlaskamp, Director Rs. 10,000,000/ - in terms of Section

129 and 166B of the Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235).

(e) Order the importer to disclose all the relevant and material evidence to the

Customs valuation division in order to decide the actual ratio of the royalty

payment which is liable for Customs valuation purpose, with respect to the

imports whichever not considered at this inquiry for the purpose of

recovering Customs duties and levies short paid.

The Petitioners in this application has sought a writ of certiorari to quash the

aforesaid orders dated 16.01.2007 among other reliefs.

Offence of Misdescription

The order of forfeiture of the goods valued at Rs. 184,260,095/ - in terms of Section 47

of the Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235) is based on the allegation that the importer

has wilfully failed to classify and pay in relation to 22 consignments the customs

duties and other levies correctly on the aluminium based plates.

In Toyota Lanka (Pvt) Limited v S.A.C.S.W. Jayathilaka Director General of Customs

Court of Appeal Application No 2093/2005 C.A Minutes 1.10.2007 , the Toyota Lanka

(Pvt) Limited cleared 64 units of vehicles from customs after paying the duty

attached to the relevant classifications. Subsequently the Customs Department

issued a seizure notice acting in terms of Section 125 of the Customs Ordinance in

relation to 31 units of the said vehicles and seized the vehicles on the basis that in

the customs declaration the vans are incorrectly classified as buses under HS Code

8702.10.13.

, I

J ! !

\ ,

l

f I

\ II f

~

~ f ! I; , I

..I

7

This decision was challenged by way of a writ of certiorari in the above case and the

Court of Appeal quashed the decision to seize the vehicles for the reason: "When a

declarant enters a HS Code in the CUSDEC which in his opinion is the correct

classification of the goods imported, the disagreement of the classification of the

goods by the Director General of Customs will not attract the forfeiture

contemplated in Section 47 and hence the vehicles cannot be seized under section

125 of the Customs Ordinance. The Court also observed:

"If the Director General of Customs is of the opinion that in fact the correct

classification (HS Code) has not been included in the CUSDEC and in

consequence the customs has short levied any duty, it could make a

determination of the correct classification (H.5 Code) of the goods imported

and the customs duty short levied could be recovered under Section 18 of the

Customs Ordinance."

The Supreme Court in Toyota Lanka (Pvt) Limited v Director General of Customs SC Appeal

49/2008 SC Minutes 29th March 2009 held:

"Hence I am fortified in the view and hold that the provision in Section 47 "but if

such goods shall not agree with particulars in the bill of entry the same shall be forfeited .. .. "

apply to a situation in which by means of a wrongful entry goods are conveyed by

stealth, to evade payment of customs duties or dues or contrary to prohibitions or

restrictions. In such a situation of a wrongful entry and evasion, since the

consequence of forfeiture is by operation of law, even if the officer had delivered the

goods upon the submission of a CUSDEC, such goods may be seized at any

subsequent stage in terms of Section 125. I am further of the view and hold that the

forfeiture provided for in Section 47 would not apply to a situation of a disputed

classification of goods or an under payment of short levy of dues or duties. In such

event the proper course would be a requirement for payment of the amount due

prior to delivery of goods or the recovery of the amounts due in terms of Section

18."

l ,

~ j II ,

..

8

Both the Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court held that the forfeiture provided

for in Section 47 would not apply to a situation of a disputed classification of goods

in the absence of an intention of defrauding the revenue.

The Respondents' contention in this instant case is that the importer has wilfully failed

(intentionally defrauded the revenue) to classify and pay the customs duties and other

levies correctly on the aluminium based plates. The Respondents' contention is that

the Petitioners have wilfully classified the 1/ Aluminium Plates" under H.5.Code

7606.99.09 disregarding the fact that the invoices (2R1 to 2R4) from M/ s Erich Utisch

AG, state that the HS Code as 8310.00. In this regard the dates of the invoices are

relevant. Invoice 2R1 is dated 20.10.1999 and invoices No 2R2 to No 2R4 are dated

03.11.1999. The Petitioners have relied on a Tariff Classification Advice dated

25.11.1999 bearing No TC/99/177. The Custom Department has a special unit to

give such advice and according to this advice the advice sought is in relation to an

article: 'Rectangular Aluminium Plates in sizes as per attached letter' and they are

imported in the form: 'Aluminium plate form as per sample attached with reflective

foil' . For this product the tariff classification given by the Custom Department is

H.5 7616.9909. The Petitioners are bound to rely on this advice given by the Customs

Department even though the Petitioner or its supplier holds a different opinion in

relation to HS code of the said product. The Petitioner relied on this advice until he

was compelled to seek an advice on 24.07.2003 and by this advice the Petitioner was

advised that the product in relation to which he has sought advice is HS 8310.00. It is

admitted that the Petitioners thereafter classified this item under HS code 8310.00

for its imports.

The imports of the blank aluminium plates in issue with regard to classification are

in relation to the period 17.12.1999 to 24.07.2003. The Petitioners' position is that he

correctly described the article imported under HS Code 7616.9909 on tlle

classification advice sought and obtained from the customs bearing No TC/99/177

dated 17.12.1999. The position of the Respondents is that the classification given as

1 1

-~

l ,

I I I I

I

1 I 1 I 'j

9

HS 7616.9909 to a product described as II Aluminium Plate form as per sample

attached with reflective foil". In the said advice of the Customs bearing No

TC/99/177 dated 17.12.1999 in the comments column it has been specifically

stated that II If the plates imported bear any letters, numbers or designs they would

fall under 8310.00". It is admitted that the blank plates imported contains several

lion water marks, pre-engraved secret numbers and the national emblem of Sri

Lanka (here in after referred to as security features). After importation the importer

as per agreement embosses, two letters, four numbers across the plate separated by

a dash with a provincial identification (two) letters.

The Position taken by the Petitioners is that the sample of the blank aluminium

plate with the security futures was submitted with the document by which the

advice was sought (The Respondents states that the said sample is not available with

the customs to confirm whether the said sample contained the security features but

it was admitted by the Respondents that the sample of the blank plate was given) if

the Customs officers had thought that the security features could be considered as

letters, numbers or design then they need not make a special note that if the plates

imported bear any letters, numbers or designs they would fall under 8310.00"

instead they would have classified under HS code 8310.00 but as they have

considered the aluminium plate submitted and advised that it will fall under the

classification HS 7606.11 shows that the Customs Department has decided that the

security features will not fall under the description stated by them in the comments.

The Petitioners on this basis imported blank aluminium plates declaring HS Code

No 7606.11 in the CUSDEC.

The Position of the Respondents is that the sample submitted for advice is only a

rectangular blank aluminium plate without lion water marks, pre-engraved secret

numbers and the national emblem of Sri Lanka (security features), this position was

taken by the Respondents because of the comments made in the said advice that 'if

the plats imported bear any letters, Nos or designs they would fall under 8310.00'.

f ; 1

~

10

It is in evidence that when these goods are cleared the advice bearing No

TCj99j177 dated 17.12.1999 was also attached for easy reference. As contended by

the Respondents that the position of the customs from the very inception that if the

plates imported contained the security features (any letters, numbers or designs on

them) they will be classified under HS 8310.00, is correct then the custom officers

when passing the goods after inspection would not have released the goods to the

importer as the goods are classified under HS 7606.11 based on the advice bearing

No TCj99j177 dated 17.12.1999. Further if it is clear in the minds of the officers of

the Customs that the security features could be considered as letters, numbers or

design then they need not have referred this issue of classification to the World

Customs Organization on 25.08.2003 after giving a second advice on 24.07.2003

informing the Petitioner that the same product falls under classification HS 8310.00.

The Director of Customs by his letter dated 25th August 2003 addressed a letter to the World Customs Organization and has given the description of the Article as follows:

"Rectangular aluminium plates of various dimensions, with rounded corners and raised edges, covered with a reflective foil with security features, intended to be used for the manufacture of motor vehicle license number plates. As presented the plates already bear several "Lion" watermarks, as well as pre-engraved secret numbers. The national emblem of the country of use is printed in the corner of

the plate. After importation, this information is supplemented by the national license number plate of the corresponding motor vehicle and the plate is issued to the owner. "

And sought advice: whether the product should be classified in heading 83.10 or in heading 76.16.

The Secretariat's opinion: The article in question is an aluminium plate which already contains pre-printed security information which determines its future use. On the basis of its content and presentation Secretariat concludes that this is a licence number plate presented unfinished but already displaying the essential characteristics of a motor vehicle licence number plate. This interpretation is supported by the second paragraph of the explanatory note to this heading which stipulates that "some plates .. . designed for the subsequent insertion of details" belong in heading 83.10.

The World Customs Organization has described the goods in issue under heading

83.10 not because the blank plate contains any letters, numbers or designs on them

11

(comments made by the Sri Lanka Customs in advise No TC/99/177 dated

17.12.1999 that if the plats imported bear any letters, Nos or designs they would fall

under 8310.00) but because the plate is designed for the subsequent insertion of

details.

The above facts show that the Customs Department itself had doubts as to whether

the number plates containing security features (such as lion water marks , pre-

engraved secret numbers and the national Emblem of Sri Lanka) should be classified

in heading 83.10 or in heading 76.16. In these circumstances the Petitioners' claim

that they relied on the advice bearing No TC/99/177 dated 17.12.1999 that the

aluminium plate they imported with security features falls under HS coded 7616.99

and declared accordingly in the CUSDEC cannot be said to have been done with the

intention of defrauding the Revenue. The Supreme Court in Toyota Lanka (Pvt)

Limited v Director General of Customs (supra) held that in the absence of stealth, to

evade payment of customs duties or dues that the forfeiture provided for in Section

47 would not apply to a situation of a disputed classification of goods or an under

payment of short levy of dues or duties.

But now an opinion has been obtained from the World Customs Organization that

the aluminium plate with the security features is a licence number plate presented

unfinished but already displaying the essential characteristics of a motor vehicle

licence number plate. This interpretation is supported by the second paragraph of

the explanatory note to this heading which stipulates that "some plates ... designed

for the subsequent insertion of details" belong in heading 83.10. In view of this

opinion all the consignments of aluminium plates imported by the 1st Petitioner falls

within the classification of HS Code 8310.00 in the circumstances the duties short

levied in the imports of the said 22 consignments of the 1

51 Petitioner could be recovered as

provided for under Section 18 of the Customs Ordinance.

i I I i ! ,

l

\ , ,

i I i t I ! [ I [ I I t I

f

1

12

Undervaluation by non declaration of royalty

The principal agreement dated 11th of October 1999 for the manufacture, supply and

delivery of retro-reflective number plates with embossed number and security

sticker for windscreen was between Erich Utsch AG and the Commissioner of Motor

Traffic. The principal contractor by his letter dated 13th January 200 informed the

Commissioner of Motor Traffic that for the purpose of having a local contract with

the Department of Motor Traffic and as it is easier for the project implementation

and monitoring with a local team, the contractual obligation of Erich Utsch AG was

assigned to Utsch Lanka (Pvt) Ltd the 1st Petitioner, a Company incorporated in Sri

Lanka under the terms and conditions agreed upon between these two parties. One

of the terms of the said agreement is that the Licensor pay the Licensee a royalty fee

for the provision of technology, expertise and training for the project by the

Licensor. The payment related to the royalty was embodied in an agreement

between Erich Utsch AG and the 1st Petitioner dated 21st March 2000 (P5). One of the

conditions of the said agreement is the payment of Royalty Fee of ten per cent (10%)

per annum of the total turnover of the 1st Petitioner as per the audited accounts.

The charge against the Petitioner is that it has failed in all the instances to declare the

royalty payments to the Customs in order to determine the value of the goods

imported. As such the Petitioner has undervalued the goods imported and

defrauded the revenue by not paying the correct customs duty.

The above charge is in relation to the Customs valuation of the goods imported by

the 1st Petitioner. For the purpose of customs duty the value of the goods has to be

determined at the time of importation. As provided by Section 510f the Customs

Ordinance it is the duty of the importer or his agent to state the value of the article

imported in the 'Sri Lanka Customs - Value Declaration Form" together with the

description and quantity of the same. Such value shall be determined in accordance

with the provisions of Schedule E, of the Customs Ordinance and duties shall be

paid on a value so determined.

I ,

1 I i I'.

13

The said form in Column 16 requests the declaration of the following particulars:

16. Declare any of the following costs & services and not included in the invoice value in terms of Article 8(1)and 8(2) of

Schedule E for the Customs Ordinance:

(a) Brokerage and Commission: Nj A (b)Cost of Containers: Nj A

(c) Packing Costs: NjA (d) Cost of goods and services supplied by the buyer: Nj A

(e) Royalties and license fees: Nj A (f) Value of Proceeds which accrue to sellers: Nj A

(g) Loading, Unloading, Handling Charges: Nj A (H) Insurance EURO 606.12

(In the country of exportation)

(i) Fright: Nj A (j) Other payments, if any: Nj A

The Petitioner in the said Value Declaration form declared against the Column

Royalties and license fees - N/ A ( not applicable). On the value declared by the

Petitioner in the Value Declaration Form value was determined and the customs

duties were paid by the Petitioner.

The Respondents submitted that according to the license agreement between Erich

Utsch AG and the 1st Petitioner dated 21st March 200 P5 a payment of 10% royalty

for the provision of technology, expertise and training for the project has to be paid

to Erich Utsch AG per annum of the total turnover of the 1st Petitioner as per the

audited accounts. Hence the 1st Petitioner should have declared in the Value

Declaration Form the payment of royalty. Whether a payment of royalty is

applicable to customs valuation purpose or not is a matter for customs to decide

upon accurate information in consultation with each other. Therefore the failure to

declare the royalty payments has clearly deprived customs of that opportunity and

has helped the Petitioner to evade due payment of customs duty.

The question is whether the royalty payment of the Petitioner for the provision of

technology, expertise and training for the project has to be added to_the value of the

14

goods imported? If not is it necessary to declare the payment of royalty in the Value

Declaration Form?

As observed above the determination of the value of the goods imported is for the

purpose of determining the customs duty. According to Section 51 the value of the

goods imported has to be determined in accordance with Schedule E of the Customs

(Amendment) Act No.2 of 2003. Article 1 of Schedule E states: the customs value of

any imported goods shall be the transaction value, that is the price actually paid or

payable for the goods when sold for export to Sri Lanka as adjusted with the

provisions of Article 8. Article 8(1) of the said schedule states;

In determining the customs value under the provisions of Article 1, there shall be

added to the price actually paid or payable for the imported goods:

(a) ..

(b) ...

(c) Royalties and license fees related to the goods being valued that the buyer must

pay, either directly or indirectly, as a condition of sale of the goods being valued to

the extent that such royalties and fees are not included in the price actually paid or

payable.

There is no issue as to the declaration of the price actually paid to the imported

goods. It is admitted that the royalty is not included in the price actually paid. The

issue is whether the royalty that has to be paid by the Petitioner for the provision of

technology, expertise and training for the project be added to the prices actually

paid for the imported goods for the purpose of determining the customs value of the

goods in order to determine the customs duty.

It is important to note that the duties of customs shall be levied and paid upon all

goods and merchandise imported into or exported from Sri Lanka under Section 10

1 ! i 1 . -, -

15

of the Customs Ordinance at the time of importation or exportation. Therefore the

price of the goods has to be determined at the time of importation to facilitate the

payment of customs duty at the time of importation. Article 1 of Schedule Estates:

the customs value of any imported goods shall be the transaction value, that is the

price actually paid or payable for the goods when sold for export to Sri Lanka as

adjusted with the provisions of Article 8. The price of the goods at the time of

importation is:- price actually paid with royalty paid or payable to the goods

imported.

For example if the goods are imported under a foreign trade mark, the value of the

right to use the patent, protected design or trade mark, shall be added to the normal

price. It is admitted that the goods imported are rectangular aluminum plates of

various dimensions, with rounded corners and raised edges, covered with a

reflective foil with several lion water marks, pre-engraved secret numbers and the

national emblem of Sri Lanka. It is also admitted that no royalty is paid or payable to

the technology used in the manufacture of the said blank aluminum plates or for the

inscription of lion water marks, pre-engraved secret numbers and the national

emblem of Sri Lanka. Therefore it is evident that the royalty is not paid or payable to

anything done or contain in the said plate at the time of importation.

The royalty is paid for the provision of technology, expertise and training for the

embossing and printing of motor vehicle number (with two letters, four numbers

across the plate separated by a dash with a provincial identification (two) letters) on

the aluminium plate imported. Number of imported aluminium plates (goods) used

for embossing is independent of the quantity of the goods imported. The payment of

royalty is defined under Article 8 of Schedule E, accordingly the royalty and license

fees should be related to the goods being valued, and royalty and license fees should

be a condition of sale of the goods being valued.

Is royalty related to the goods being valued? The Petitioners' contended that the

goods imported are raw materials and consumables required for the manufacture

and supply of number plates. The royalty paid under the said license agreement

does not relate to the said imported goods as they are not imported pursuant to the

f

j I

..

t-

16

license agreement (P5). The royalty that is paid is not in respect of imported goods

but in relation to the necessary technology, expertise and training used in the

process of manufacturing of number plates and the sale of number plate takes place

in Sri Lanka to the Department of Motor Vehicle. The contention of the Respondents

is that the technology cannot be used by the importer on any product except the

product imported from the exporter. Thus the royalty is clearly related to the goods.

A similar position was taken by the Revenue of India in Commissioner of Customs

(Port), vs MIS Toyata Kirloskar Mpotor Pvt Appeal (Civil) 3635 of 2006 on 17 May 2007

"The payments of royalty, according to the Revenue, have a direct nexus to the

imported goods as the same go into the manufacture of the licensed vehicles and

spare parts. The Court observed: "The basic principle of levy of customs duty, in

view of the aforementioned provisions, is that the value of the imported goods has

to be determined at the time and place of importation. The value to be determined

for the imported goods would be the payment required to be made as a condition of

sale. Assessment of customs duty must have a direct nexus with the value of goods

which was payable at the time of importation. If any amount is to be paid after the

importation of the goods is completed, inter alia by way of transfer of license or

technical knowhow for the purpose of setting up of a plant from the machinery

imported or running thereof, the same would not be computed for the said purpose.

Any amount paid for post importation service or activity, would not, therefore,

come within the purview of the determination of assessable value of the imported

goods so as to enable the authorities to levy customs duty or otherwise".

The goods valued are the 'Rectangular Blank Aluminum Plates' (with rounded

corners and raised edges, covered with a reflective foil with several lion water

marks, pre-engraved secret numbers and the national emblem of Sri Lanka) and not

the finished number plates. There is no royalty payment attached to the imported

'Rectangular Blank Aluminum Plates' at the time of valuation or at any later stage.

But the royalty would accrue if and when the numbers are embossed on the plates

and sold. The royalty have a direct nexus to the finished product but it does not

have a direct nexus to the imported goods.

17

Is royalty payment a condition of sale? The Petitioner contended that under the

license agreement P5 the royalty is paid on the total annual turnover as per the

audited accounts of the Ist Petitioner hence it cannot be said that the royalty is paid

as a condition of sale of the goods being valued. The entire transaction between the

parties establishes that the payment of royalty is not a pre condition for the sale of

raw materials. The submission of the Respondents is that the agreement between the

Petitioner and Erich Utsch AG is for the complete transaction as such the

importation, embossing and sale are linked together and the failure on the part of

the Petitioner to pay the royalty would amount to the refusal of future sale of the

aluminum plates. The Respondent further contended that the 'condition of sale'

should not be read as 'a condition of contract of sale'; Chief Executive Officer of the

New Zealand Customs Service v Nike New Zealand [2004] 1 NZLR 238. The

Respondents submitted that in the given circumstances the royalty payment is a

condition of sale. In Commissioner for the South African Revenue Service v Delta Motors

Corporation (Property) Limited, Supreme Court of Appeal of South Africa Case No

279/2001 minutes 23rd September 2002 the Court considered the payment of royalty in

relation to the customs duty. The Respondent Company was a motor vehicle

manufacturer and distributor. It imported vehicle parts completely knocked down

(CKD) from Opeal Germany. Four years it paid customs duty calculated on the

invoice amount per kit which invoiced amount included not only the purchase price

but also an unspecified charge by Opeal for engineering, styling and tooling (EST).

The company requested refund of customs duty on the ground that the EST charge

paid to Opal and included in the invoiced amount was not part of the price payable

for CKD but instead a non-dutyable royalty. The court held "In the present matter

the sale of kits to the respondent is regulated by the supply agreement. Nothing in

that agreement makes the charges now in dispute payable as a condition of sale. The

engineering and styling charges constitute the royalty payable, not in terms of the

supply agreement but the A and D agreement. As for the tooling charges (assuming

they amount to royalty or license fees) they too are not payable pursuant to anything

contained in the supply agreement. The ETS charges are consequently not payable

'as a condition of sale'. On the contrary, in so far as the supply agreement does

apply to these charges it makes them payable even if no kits are sold (so long, of

I I j I I

/ I ! I

I

I I I

t

I I 1

I I I

i

(

18

course, as assembled vehicles are sold). It follows further from what has been said

already that the EST charges are paid "in respect of "assembled vehicles sold and

not " in respect of " imported kits. The terms of S 67(1) (c) are accordingly

inapplicable and in consequence the EST charges were not dutiable".

Article 8 (C) of Schedule E of the Customs (Amendment) Act No 2 of 2003 contain

similar provisions of that of Section 67(1) (c) of the Customs and Excise Act 91 of

1964 of the South African Act. In the instant case too, the royalty is paid on the finish

product and not on the aluminum plate imported. Even though the finish products

were made out of the aluminum plates sold it does not mean that the sale of the

aluminum plates has a direct link to the manufacture of the finish product. As I have

observed above the number of aluminum plates sold to the licensor need not be

equal to the manufacture of the number plates, taking in to consideration the stock

in trade, waste and damages etc. The sale of the aluminum plates with security

features to the 1st Petitioner was under the terms and condition of the principal

Agreement dated 11th of October 1999 and by the assignment of the contractual

obligation of Erich Utsch AG to Utsch Lanka (Pvt) Ltd the 1St Petitioner, by letter

dated 13th January 2000. The payment of royalty is not included in any of these

agreements. The royalty is paid in relation to an agreement entered between Erich

Utsch AG and the 1st Petitioner on 21st March 2000 (P5) and the royalty is paid not

on a fixed rate or based on the purchase price but on the sale of the completed

number plates. As such the royalty payment depends on the rate of manufacture of

the vehicle number plate. There is nothing to prevent the 1st Petitioner to purchase

large quantities of aluminum plates from Erich Utsch AG and after having a

substantial stock with it, to start manufacture of the number plates. There is no

merit in the submission of the Respondents that the sale of the aluminum plates

depends on the payment of royalty.

When considering all the facts and circumstances of this case it is clear that the

royalty payment is not related to the imported goods or it is a condition of sale of

the imported goods (aluminium plates) therefore the royalty payment need not be

added to the price actually paid. Hence the failure to enter the payment of royalty in

r

\ ~ I t I

19

the Customs Value Declaration Form will not amount to a false declaration to charge

the Petitioners under Section 52 of the Customs Ordinance.

In the above circumstances this court issue a writ of certiorari to quash the order of

the 1st Respondent dated 16.01.2007 marked P1S (f). Application for a writ of

certiorari is allowed as prayed for in prayer (d) of the Petition without costs.

~//~' - Judge of the Court of Appeal

f I ! I I I I I I

f f

f i i 1 I I I , I

1