==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 1120/2000 F D.C. Matale No. 4510 / L

1. Siththi Faridha, 2. Mohamed Mawsuf, 3. Yesman Farisa Marikkar, 4. Jeinathul Fasina Massur, Children of Abdul Salam All of No 34/6. Kachcheri Road Matale.

Plaintiffs

Vs.

1. K. Devadasan (deceased), 1 a. Wellasamy Pakkiyam, 2. Wellasamy Pakkiyam, Both of Sinnapattapaha Estate, Marukona, Ukuwela.

Defendants

AND NOW BETWEEN

Wellasamy Pakkiyam, Both of Sinnapattapaha Estate, Marukona, Ukuwela.

1 a. and 2nd Defendant Appellant Vs

1. Siththi Faridha, 2. Mohamed Mawsuf, 3. Yesman Farisa Marikkar, 4. Jeinathul Fasina Massur, Children of Abdul Salam All of No 34/6. Kachcheri Road Matale.

Plaintiff Respondents

11i I I

i

~ I I !III

\II

I!i I

c

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

K.V.S. Ganesharayan for 2nd the Defendant

Appellant

Shabri Haleemdeen with Udithe Hiripitiya

for the Plaintiff Respondents

18.07.2013

10.10.2013

The Plaintiff Respondents (hereinafter referred to as the

Respondents) instituted the said action against the Defendants in the District Court

of Matale seeking for a declaration of title to the land described in the schedule to

the plaint and to eject the Defendants from the said land. The Defendants filed a

joint answer praying for a dismissal of the Respondents' action and claiming a

prescriptive title to the said land. After trial the learned Additional District Judge

delivered judgement in favour of the Respondents. Being aggrieved by the said

judgment dated 08.12.2000 the la and 2nd Defendant Appellants (hereinafter

referred to as the Appellants) have preferred the present appeal to this court.

At the hearing of this appeal the learned counsel for the Appellants

contended that the Respondents have failed to prove the title to the land in suit.

I now advert to this submission. The Appellants in their answer had not

specifically denied the several averments contained in the plaint. In paragraph 01

of the answer the Appellants have stated that "except the facts which are

I

f

I l,

Ii

I

f! t t!Ir i t II

I

~

~ lJ!tt

t

~

II

Ii!I\

" 3

hereinafter expressly admitted the Defendants refuse the facts contained in the

plaint and state that the Plaintiffs must prove them."

It is apparent from the said paragraph that it is a general denial of the

several averments contained in the plaint. It must be noted that a denial of that

nature or a general statement of refusal of the facts contained in the plaint does not

amount to a specific denial of the averments contained in the plaint.

It seems from paragraph 2 and 3 of the plaint that the Respondents

were the owners of the Estate called 'Sinnapattampaha Estate' where the

Appellants were labourers and that while the Appellants were working in the said

Estate the line rooms described in the schedule to the plaint were given to the

Appellant for their occupation. While not expressly denying these averments

contained in their answer the appellants have gone on to say that they have

prescribed to the land described in the schedule to the plaint.

Section 75 (d) of the Civil Procedure Code requires that the answer

should contain a statement admitting or denying the several averments of the

plaint, and setting out in detail plainly and concisely the matters of fact and law,

and the circumstances of the case upon which the defendant means to rely for his

defence. If the defendant disputed such an important averment the proper place for

him to raise it was in his answer which he was free at any stage of the proceedings

to amend with the leave of Court. The provisions of section 75 are imperative and

are designed to compel a defendant to admit or deny the several allegations in the

plaint so that the questions of fact to be decided between the parties may be

ascertained by the Court on the day fixed for the hearing of the action. A defendant

who disregards the imperative requirements of this section cannot be allowed to

1l

; ; I! I

\

J

I

1,

I

I ! 1 I

I

I

4

take advantage of his own disobedience of the statute. To permit such a course of

conduct would result in a nullification of the scheme of the Civil Procedure Code.

Hence I hold that the appellants' failure to deny the several averments

contained in the plaint in accordance with the requirements of the statute must be

deemed to be an admission by the Appellants of that averments.

At the trial, the Appellants have not raised any issue or have not led

any evidence. On the other hand, at the commencement of the trial, the Appellants

have admitted that they had worked under the Respondents as employees of the

Respondents. In paragraph 04 of the answer the Appellants have stated that at the

time of filing this action they were employees under the Respondents and prior to

that they had worked under the predecessors in title of the Respondents.

In the said circumstances I am of the view that the learned trial Judge

has come to a right conclusion on a careful consideration of the evidence led in this

case. Hence I see no reason to interfere with the said judgment of the learned

District Judge dated 08.12.2000. Therefore I dismiss the appeal of the Appellants

with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

\ I

\

\ II

f

t !!

! ! ! [ Iii {I

f (