==== BLOCKS ==== 

.

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA(PHC)APN 54/2013 (REV)

High Court Civil- Sabaragamuwa.SP/HCCA/RAT/ 124/09(FA)

D.C. Ratnapura-3351/P

G.K.D. Stephan Gunaratne

Kirindigala, Balangoda.

Plaintiff-Respondent-

Petitioner.

Vs.

5A.Maddumage Thushara

Indika Sampath, No.344,

Kirindigala, Balangoda.

6. A.V. Hemachandra, No.

320/14,

Balangoda.

Kirindigala,

8. Rupasinghe Dhanawathie,

No.350,

Balangoda.

Kirindigala,

5A. 6th and 8 th Defendant-

Appellat -Respondent.

ro .-i 0 N 0'1 C! ro N « u.. 0'1 ~

N ...., I-« a: « u u :I: 0.. Vl :J

5> Q

« a: ~ 0.. « z ~ a: u J: ro .-i 0 N .......

'<:t LI'l u J: 0.. « u 1

1 • _

I ,

1. B.M.

(deceased)

Balangoda.

Heenmanike

Kirindigala,

1A.B.M.Hurathlhamy,

Kirindigala, Balangoda.

And S others.

Defendant-Respondent-

Respondent.

Before: A.W.A. Salam, J & Sunil Rajapakshe, J.

Counsel : Lal Matarage for the Plaintiff-Respondent-

Petitioner and Rohan Sahabandu PC with S. Kumarawadu for

the SA, 6, 8 Defendant-Appellant-Respondents.

Argued on : 29.07.2013

Written submissions tendered on: 09.09.2013

Decided on: 23.09.2013

A.W.A. Salam, J.

This is an application to reVIse the judgment of the High

Court of Sabaragamuwa Province holden at Ratnapura

delivered in the exercise of appellate jurisdiction.

When the application was taken up initially for support the

learned President's Counsel appearing for the SA, 6, 8

defendant-appellant-respondents (who are for sake of

convenience referred to in this judgment later as the

C'I'l rl 0 N 0'1 q C'I'l N « LL. 0'1 0 -<:t N rl I-« a: « u u :I: a.. EVl [::; t:> ~D -« a: => a.. « z l-t« a: u :I:

C'I'l rl 0 N -<:t Vl

U :I: a.. « u

2

I 1

1

1 I j

, "respondents") opposed the reVISIOn application being

en tertained, on a fundamental jurisdictional Issue.

Maintainability of the application, thus revolved around the

elementary question as to whether this Court is vested with

jurisdiction to hear and determine the same. This judgment

pertains to the said preliminary objection.

The background to the revision application needs to be put it

in a nutshell emphasizing the endeavour of the plaintiff-

respondent-petitioner (who is referred to in the rest of this

judgment for purpose of convenience as the "petitioner") to

invoke the revisionary jurisdiction of this Court to revise a

judgment pronounced by the High Court in the exercise of its

appellate jurisdiction in respect of a civil matter, which to my

knowledge is probably the first application filed in this Court,

ever since the enactment of No 54 of 2006.

The chronological order in which the events relevant to this

application, took place are required to be set out at this stage.

The petitioner instituted a partition action in the District

Court seeking the cessation of co-ownership of the corpus.

The partition action culminated in favour of the plaintiff and

the corpus was directed to be partitioned among the co-

owners as prayed for in the plaint. Consequently, the claim

made by SA, 6 and 8 defendant-respondents was rejected.

Aggrieved by the judgment and interlocutory decree the

respo!ldents duly preferred an appeal, in the exercise of their

unfettered statutory right, to the civil appellate High Court of

Sabaragamuwa Province. The civil appellate High Court in the

en ,...; a N C1I C! en N « LL.

C1I a ~

N ,...; I-« a:: « u u :r:: Cl.. V) ::::J ;; Q f« a:: ::> Cl.. « z l-« a:: u :r:: en ,...; a N ........ <:t L/') u :r:: Cl.. « u 3

1

1 I ,

I I

I

I I I

,exercise of its appellate jurisdiction set aside the judgment of

t~e learned District judge.

In terms of Section 5(c)(l) of Act No 54 of 2006, a direct

appeal lies to the Supreme Court from the a judgment

delivered in appeal by the High Court, with the leave of the

Supreme Court first had and obtained.

It is somewhat important at this stage to bear in mind the

criteria applicable in the grant of such leave, under Section

SA (supra). Invariably, the grant of leave depends on the

(i) involvement of the substantial question of Law arising from

the appeal OR (2) Whether the matter is fit for REVIEW by the

Supreme Court. (Emphasis added)

It is common ground that the petitioner has not availed of

such right of appeal. Instead, he has now filed the present

application purportedly under Article 138 of the Constitution

read with Section 11 (1) of Act No 19 of 1980.

The petitioner has attempted to invoke the revIsIOnary

jurisdiction of this Court vested in terms of Article 138 of the

Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

based on the premise that the revisionary jurisdiction so

vested is a distinct, independent and exclusive power. Article

138 of the Constitution as amended provides as follows ...

(1) The Court of Appeal shall have and exercise

subject to the provisions of the Constitution or of

any law, an appellate jurisdiction for the correction

of all errors in fact or in law which shall be

« LL. 0'\ ~

N ~ I-« a:: « u u :c a.. V'l :::;-

:> u -« a:: ::::> a.. « z ~ a:: u :c

n") ~ o N ~

LI') u :c a.. « u 4

\

I

I

J J I 1 I

1 I I I

committed by the High Court, in the exercise of its

appellate or original jurisdiction or by any Court of

First Instance, tribunal or other institution and sole

and exclusive cognizance, by way of appeal, revision

and restitutio in integrum. of all causes, suits,

actions, prosecutions, matters and things of which

such High Court of First Instance, tribunal or other

institution may have taken cognizance;

(2) The Court of Appeal shall also have and exercise

all such powers and jurisdiction, appellate and

original, as Parliament may by law vest or ordain.

The Counsel for the petitioner maintains that the powers of

this Court are quite independent of the appallate jurisdiction

and the wide power of revision conferred on this Court by the

Constitution, cannot simply be taken away by mere

assumption. However, it must be understood that on a

reading of Article 138 the revisionary powers vested in the

High Court although appear to be wide in its scope, such

powers have be construed and exercised subject to the

Provisions of the Constitution or of any law. (Emphasis

added)

The jurisdiction to hear appeals is vested in the High Court by

the High Court of Provinces (Special Provisions) Act No.19 of

1990, as amended by Act No.54 of 2006. Section 5(a) provides

that a High Court established by Article 154(P) of the

Constitution for a Province shall have and exercise appellate

and revisionary jurisdiction in respect of judgments, decrees

and orders delivered and made by any District Court or

Family Court within such Province" and the appellate

rt') .... 0 N en q rt') N

<t u.. 0"1 0 i -

t <::t IN ....

~ ,<t Ic:::: •<t fu [ u

r

I c.. Vl :::r

f:> Q I t<t Ic:::: !::::> Ic.. <t I Z I~ <t lc:::: u I

rt') .... 0 N -<::t LI'l

U I •c.. <t IU ,

5

,jurisdiction for the correction of all errors in fact or in law,

w?ich shall be committed by any such District Court or

Family Court, as the case may be.

Act No 54 of 2006 gave appellate and revisionary jurisdiction

in respect of the judgments of the District and Family Courts

within a Province, to the respective High Court. Section SA (2)

provides that written law applicable to the exercise of

jurisdiction by the Court of Appeal shall be read and

construed as including a reference to a High Court and laid

down that an appeal from an order of the District Court

would be challenged in the High Court.

The pivotal question that anses for consideration in this

application is whether the Court of Appeal can act in revision

when the judgment has been pronounced by a High Court in

terms of the Provisions contained in Act No 54 of 2006, when

the proper remedy is to prefer a direct appeal to the Supreme

Court.

It may serve some useful purpose to look back at the nature

of the right of appeal and the procedure that prevailed prior to

the creation of the present Court of Appeal by the 1978

Constitution. Prior to 1978, an appeal from a District Court

had to be preferred to the Supreme Court. The Court of

appeal as is presently constituted being the creation of the

1978 Constitution was conferred with exclusive civil appellate

jurisdiction with a special right of appeal to the Supreme

Court, at the instance of an aggrieved party, subject to the

leave of the Court of appeal or the Supreme Court first had

and obtained.

en M 0 N 0'1 q en N « LL. 0'1 0 ~

N M

~ « a:: « u u :::c c.. V) :::r

:> Q.

« a:: :::> c.. « z ~ « a:: u :::c en M 0 N -o::t In

U :::c c.. « u

6

1 -. .

Article 127 of the Constitution, inter alia provides for

entertainment of appeals and the manner in which they

would be disposed of by the Supreme Court. According to

article 127, subject to the Constitution, the Supreme Court

shall be the final Court of civil appellate jurisdiction for the

correction of all errors in fact or in law which shall be

committed by the Court of Appeal or any Court of First

Instance. The Supreme Court shall also in the exercise of its

jurisdiction, have sole and exclusive cognizance by way of

appeal from any order, judgment, decree, or sentence made

by the Court of Appeal, where any appeal lies in law to the

Supreme Court.

Article 136 (1) of the Constitution empowers the Supreme

Court to frame Rules regulating the practice and procedure of

the Court of Appeal including the procedure for the hearing of

such appeals. By virtue of the Rule making powers vested in

it, the Supreme Court Rules of 1990 were promulgated

providing inter alia as to the mode of preferring an appeal to

the Supreme Court. Accordingly, an appeal to the Supreme

Court has to be preferred with the prior leave obtained, within

a period of 42 days. When this Rule was originally

promulgated the appeals from the District Court were

preferred to the Court of Appeal.

Mter Act No 54 of 2006 was passed by the Legislature as an

amendment to Act No 19 of 1990 and Section SA of the Act

gave both appellate and revisionary jurisdiction in respect of

judgments of the District Court within a Province to the

respective High Court. Section SA (2) of that Act provides that

C'f') .-i 0 N C'l q

C'f') N « u. C'l 0 .... o:;t N .-i I-« c::: « u u J: a... V'l ::::J :> u « c::: :::> a... « z I-« c::: u J:

C'f') .-i 0 N .... o:;t I./) u J: a... « u 7

Ii

t

\

I . .

the written law applicable to the exercise of jurisdiction by the

Court of Appeal shall be read as including a reference to a

High Court which Provision of the Law now enables that an

appeal from an order of the District Court be made to the

Provincial High Court. Section 5 D of the Act No 54 of 2006

provides that where an appeal from the District Court is filed

in the Court of Appeal, such appeal shall be transferred to the

appropriate High Court.

The question that now arises for consideration is whether the

Court of Appeal can exercise its revisionary powers under

Article 138 of the Constitution in respect of a judgment of the

High Court pronounced under the Provisions of Act No 54 of

2006 when the proper remedy is to appeal to the Supreme

Court.

Appreciably, Section SA of Act No 54 of 2006 quite specifically

states that all relevant written laws applicable to an appeal, in

the Court of Appeal are applicable to the High Court as well.

This undoubtedly demonstrates beyond any iota of doubt that

the scheme provided by Act No 54 of 2006 to facilitate an

appeal being heard by the Provincial High Court is nothing

but a clear transfer of jurisdiction and in effect could be said

that as far as appeals are concerned both the High Court and

the Court of Appeal rank equally and are placed on par with

each other. Arising from this statement of law, it must be

understood that if the Court of Appeal cannot act in revision

in re~pect of a judgment it pronounces in a civil appeal, then

it cannot sit in revision over a judgment entered by the High

Court in the exercise of its civil appellate jurisdiction as well,

m .-! o N 0"1 q m N

<t: u. 0"1 ~

N .-! f-<t: a:::

<3 u :::c Cl. VI :::;-

5> U -<t: a::: :::> Cl. <t: 2 f-<t: a::: u :::c m .-! o N ~ LI)

U :::c Cl. <t: u 8

f

· . I

,for both courts are to be equally ranked when they exercise

ci.vil appellate jurisdiction.

The learned President's Counsel has cited the judgment in the

case of Senanayaka Vs Koehn 2002 3 SLR 381. The judgment

in that case concerned the powers of the Court of Appeal to

revise an impugned judgment of the High Court of the

Western Province holden at Colombo (Commercial High Court)

which exercised civil jurisdiction, conferred on it by the

Provisions of the High Court of the Provinces (Special

Provisions) (Amendment) Act No 10 of 1996.

In terms of Section 5 of Act No. 10 of 1996 an appeal from an

order or judgment of the Commercial High Court shall be

made to the Supreme Court. The Court of Appeal has no

appellate jurisdiction in respect of orders or judgments of the

Commercial High Court. However, the petitioner sought to

invoke the revisionary jurisdiction of this Court without

exercising the right of appeal to the Supreme Court. The

question that was considered in that revision application by

this Court was the extent to which this Court has revisionary

powers in respect of a judgment of the Commercial High

Court.

Quite significantly, the Court of Appeal considered the

question as to whether the revisionary jurisdiction vested in

that Court can be exercised where the law states that the

appellate powers in respect of orders and judgments of the

Commercial High Court are with the Supreme Court. In this

context, I am of the opinion that by enacting Section 5 of the

High Court of the Provinces (Amendment) Act, No. 10 of 1996,

m .-t a '"'! CTl q m N « u.

CTl a -;;;:-

N .-t I-« a: « u u :::c a.. In -...J 5> U -« a: ::> a.. « z l-« a: u :::c m .-t a N -.;t LIl u :::c a.. « u 9

J

~tt

ti

ft

ff

•

, the intention of the Legislature was to allow only one chance

of appeal against an order or a judgment of the Commercial

High Court.

As has been held in that case scheme of appeal against the

order of the Commercial High Court being the same as in the

case of an order pronounced by the High Court exercising civil

appellate jurisdiction, to allow a revision application to be

maintained against the judgment of the High Court exercising

civil appellate jurisdiction would amount to usurping the

exclusive appellate jurisdiction conferred on the Supreme

Court.

It is well settled law that a thing which cannot be done

directly, cannot be allowed to be done indirectly. The

petitioner to the present application in my opinion is seeking

to impugn the judgment delivered by the learned High Court

Judge in an indirect manner than provided for in the law,

which he cannot achieve directly by reason of his right to

challenge the propriety of the said judgment in the Supreme

Court by way of a direct appeal. Further, if the petitioner is

held to enjoy such a right, a judgment pronounced on the

revision application would be appealable to the Supreme

Court in terms of article 127 of the Constitution. This would

undoubtedly lead to absurdity and above all, the petitioner

will have a second bite at the cherry, which is not available to

a person who has already exercised the right of appeal to the

Supreme Court.

In the circumstances, it is my considered VIew that the

petitioner is not entitled to maintain the revision application

and therefore it would be a futile exercise to issue notice of

IV') rl 0 I"! 0"1 q

IV') N « u.. 0"1 0 -o::t N rl

~ « c::: « u u J: Cl. Vl :::J :> iJ -« c::: ::> Cl. « z ~ « c:::

U J:

IV') rl 0 N -o::t Vl

U J: Cl. « u

1 0

f

\

, .

• • the application. As such, I formally refuse notice on the

revision application filed by the petitioner.

The respondents who were represented by the learned

President's Counsel are entitled to the costs of these

proceedings.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Sunil Rajapakha

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

NR

<t: u. 0'1 o ~

N rl

~ cr:: <t: u U :I: c.. Vl :::::r

:> u

<t: cr:: :::> c.. <t: Z ~ cr::

U :I:

("t') rl o N ~ Vl

U :I: c.. <t: u

1 1