==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

g

f j

1

I

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 1174/2000 (F)

D.C. Marawila No. 396 / L

1. Adhikari Mudiyanselage Mudalihamy (deceased) 2. Adhikari Mudiyanselage Herath Signho, 3. Adhikari Mudiyanselage Haramanis, 4. Adhikari Mudiyanselage Charlis Appuhamy, All of Thulawala, Koswatta.

Plaintiffs Vs.

Waduvidanalage Podi Hamine, Kirimatiyana, Lunuwila.

Defendant

And Now Between

Waduvidanalage Podi Hamine, Kirimatiyana, Lunuwila.

Defendant -Appellant

Vs.

1. Adhikari Mudiyanselage Mudalihamy (deceased) 1 a. Adhikari Mudiyanselage Nandawathie, (deceased) 2. Adhikari Mudiyanselage Herath Signho, (deceased) 2a. Herath Mudiyanselage Kumarihamy, 2b. Herath Mudiyanselage Leelawathie,

t,

BEFORE

COUNSEL

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

2c. Herath Mudiyanselage Rohini Chandralatha, 2e. Herath Mudiyanselage Padmaseeli Menike, 2f. Herath Mudiyanselage Wijeratna, All of Kirimatiyana East, Lunuwila. 3. Adhikari Mudiyanselage Haramanis (deceased) 3a. Adhikari Mudiyanselage Charlis Appuhamy, 4. Adhikari Mudiyanselage Charlis Appuhamy, All of Thulawala, Koswatta.

P laintiff-Respondents

UP AL Y ABEYRA THNE, J.

Defendant Appellant - Absent and

Unrepresented

Plaintiff Respondents- Absent and

Unrepresented

05.05.2014

The Plaintiff Respondents (hereinafter referred to as the Respondents)

instituted an action against the Defendant Appellant (hersinafter referred to as the

Appellant) in the District Court of Marawila seeking for a declaration inter alia that

the deed bearing No 25 dated 26.04.1990 attested by Vemi Medona Nirmali

Gunaratna, Notary Public was null and void. The Defendant filed an answer

I

\

i 1i 1 w-I f I I ! I i

~ f

~ If i i I f I t I

\ !

I J I

3

denying the averments contained in the plaint and praying for a dismissal of the

Respondents' action. The case proceeded to trial upon 06 issues. After trial, the

learned Additional District Judge has delivered a judgement in favour of the

Respondents. Being aggrieved by the said judgment dated 28.11.2000 the

Appellant has preferred the present appeal to this court.

It seems from the petition of appeal that the main grievance of the

Appellant was that the learned Additional District Judge has failed to evaluate the

evidence adduced on behalf of the Appellant. I have examined the evidence led at

the trial and the impugned judgment. I am of the view that the Appellant has failed

to prove his case on a balance of probability. Hence I see no reason to interfere

with the judgement of the learned Additional District Judge dated 28.11.2000.

Therefore I dismiss the appeal of the Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal