==== BLOCKS ==== 

1 j . \

1 \ I ,

\

\

\ \ I 1 '

\

\

, 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 469/2009 (Writ)

1. Devakumar Ragith Hettiarachchy

No. 39, Baddegana Road (South),

Pita Kotte, Kotte.

2. Palithawadana Arachchige Rienzie

Pascal Christopher Perera

No. 19, Bogahahena Road,

Battaramulla.

PETITIONERS

Vs.

1. Jeevan Kumaranatunge

Minister of Agriculture,

Lands and Land Development

Ministry of Lands "Govijanamandhiraya"

Rajamalwatta Road,

Battaramulla.

1A. Janaka Bandara Tennakoon

Minister of Lands,

Ministry of Lands "Govijanamandhiraya"

Rajamalwatta Road,

Battaramulla.

2. Sri Lanka Land Reclamation & Development

Corporation,

No.3, Sri Jayawardenapura Mawatha,

Welikada, Rajagiriya.

Ij

~ f

i I

\!I

;

\

II

~-

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUEDON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERATNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Deepali Wijesundera J.

3. Dinesh Gunawardena

Minister of Urban Development,

Ministry of Urban Development and

Sacred Area Development

Sethsiripaya,

Battaramulla.

3A. The Attorney-General

The Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

RESPONDENTS

Manohara De Silva P.c. with H. Wijesurendra and

H. Munasinghe for the Petitioners

Chaya Sri Nammuni S.c., for Respondents

27.08.2013

22.01.2014

2

The two Petitioners in this Writ Application have sought Writs of

Certiorari and Mandamus. A Writ of Certiorari to quash letters marked P28 & P30,

i

iII

lIt I I{

1I

,,I!

rI

t I!

f

tI ,

r II f ! t ,

3

wherein it is more particularly stated in the said letters that lands available for

retention of water or flood water which had been acquired by the Government

cannot be released since the lands so retained had got reduced and as such plot

of land claimed by the Petitioners cannot be released. Mandamus is sought to

divest the lands claimed by the Petitioners in terms of Section 39A(1) of the Land

Acquisition Act. Letters P28 & P30 had been issued by the 2

nd Respondent. The

case of the two Petitioners could be summarized as far as possible as stated

below.

Petitioners were members of the 'Diyawanna Nivasa Yojana Kramaya

saha Nivasa Subasadhaka Samitiya' (hereinafter referred to as the Society). The

said society was established in 1970 mainly to provide houses for its members

who do not own houses of their own. Society purchased 6 ~ acres of land from

Nawala Kotte, by deeds referred to in paragraphs 3:3 of the petition. The land is

shown in plan No. 647 comprising of 57 blocks and block Nos. 16 & 18 are claimed

by the Petitioners (P2a & P2b) who on deeds marked P3 & P4 executed in 1974

became the owners, of those separate lots. It is pleaded that the land purchased

by the society as above was not developed properly and due to several years of

stagnant progress society sought the intervention of the state and offered the

land to be acquired and developed at the expenses of the State and to ultimately

i [

t

\

J, I

II

I

I I I I I 1 ! 1 I ! I I

4

sell it to its members on a rent purchase scheme. P5 letter gives certain details. It

was the position of the Petitioners and the society that the National Housing

Department and the National Housing Development Authority undertook to

develop as pleaded in paragraphs 4:1, 4:2 & 4:3 of the petition. Acquisition

procedure was completed and possession taken over by the Department of

National Housing and the National Housing Development Authority. (P6a & P6b,

P7a & P7c).

However it was the position of the Petitioners despite the

acquisition, steps were not taken by the State to develop the land in dispute for

some period of time (vide P7a to P7c). It is pleaded that from time to time

Petitioners and other members of the society experienced delays on the part of

the state organization i.e NHDA. Petitioners plead that Petitioners and the society

appealed to the NHDA to divest the lands to its members. On such request to give

it back to the society, the Survey General was requested to survey the land and

accordingly Survey General's plan 5843 of 25.5.1982 was prepared (P8 & P8a).

Thereafter Petitioners and the society had to undergo further delays as pleaded

and only by 1989 that blocks of land were re-transferred. Accordingly 1st

Petitioner received lot 33 in plan P8and 2nd Petitioner lot 45 in P8 by deeds

marked P11 & P12 respectively.

!

I

J

II

III

Ii i I

5

The main complaint of the Petitioners more or less as submitted by

learned President's Counsel proceed on the basis of the 2

nd Acquisition of land in

dispute for the purposes of flood control. Thereafter steps had been taken by the

authorities in terms of the land Acquisition Act to acquire the land and the

relevant notices under Section 38A, 10(1)(a) & 17 of the Land Acquisition Act

were published within a certain time period (vide P17, P23, P24a & P24b & P25b)

Learned President's Counsel submitted that several attempts were made to get

the land released without success (vide P18, P19, P20a & P20b, P21, P22a &

P22b). It was also submitted that Petitioners were paid compensation in terms of

the Land Acquisition Act and they appealed to the Board of Review since the

amount offered by way of compensation was not enough. However Petitioner

had withdrawn the appeal before the Board of Review at a subsequent stage.

It is pleaded in paragraphs 9:1 to 9:3 of the petition that several

requests and appeals were submitted to the 2

nd to 4th Respondents to either

release the lands or to allocate the lands for development. Despite the several

attempts by the Petitioners as pleaded in the body of the petition letters P28 &

P30 were received by the petitioners where the contents of same are self

explanatory i.e due to the shortfall of land in the flood retention area, it is

decided to keep hold of the Petitioner's lands. The Petitioners having received

I

I!

~

f II

I!

f II

tJII ,

6

P28 & P30 made further appeals without success. This court note the contents of

paragraphs 9:3 of the petition. I would prefer to refer to paragraphs 10:1 of the

petition for purposes of clarity as follows:

1. The Petitioners state that the aforesaid decision/s as contained in P28 and P30 are

discriminatory and are therefore capricious, malicious, illegal and arbitrary inasmuch as,

(a) Out of the 61 blocks in Plan No. 5843 (vide P8), 21 blocks have been purportedly

deemed not necessary for "flood retention projects" and have been released to

respective parties and now they are either developed or are presently undergoing

development. The particulars of some of the said development are given below;

(i) Block No. 22 and 24 which are immediately adjacent to block No. 33 claimed

by the 1st Petitioner are developed.

(ii) Block No. 39,46, which are immediately adjacent to block No. 45 claimed by

the 2nd Petitioner are developed.

(b) Approximately 16 blocks in plan No. 5843 have been filled by the State and are no

longer marshy land. Therefore the Petitioners state that such land cannot serve the

purpose of the "Land Acquiring Office of the Greater Colombo Flood Control Project

of the Urban Development Ministry" any further.

This court note the following points referred to in the objections of the

Respondents and the corresponding affidavit, as well as the submissions made to

this court by learned State Counsel.

(1) By order marked 2R1 issued under Section 2 of the Colombo District (low

lying areas) Reclamation & Development Board Act No. 15 of 1968 in

Gazette No. 43 the area specified in schedule of 2R' declared to be a

I

f I I

7

Reclamation & Development Area. This includes lands claimed by

Petitioners.

(2) 2nd Respondent entrusted with the task of implementing the Greater

Colombo Flood Control Project which includes the Rehabilitation and

Development of the new work of canals, and to provide the retention

areas.

(3) Filling and developments of lands within the acquired lands in the Greater

Colombo area likely to result in flooding in the Greater Colombo area.

(4) Security of numerous inhabitants of the Greater Colombo region from the

threat of flooding is paramount.

(5) Not possible to exclude or exempt the lands requested by the society. As

such P13 issued

(6) Divesting committee of the 2nd Respondent decided to cut a canal through

lots 33 & 45 claimed by the Petitioners including several other lots - 2R4.

(7) 1000 acres acquired for water retention and only 700 (2R5) acres

remaining. 2nd Respondent decided that no steps be taken to releasd the

balance.

(8) Project launched on the basis of a report prepared by International

Consultants of U.K which recommended 380 hectares of marsh land to be

reserved for flood retention 2R2 and 2R3 is the plan setting out the

network of canals in the area.

(9) Recent Survey (2R6) the land to the east of the canal area lower lying while

the lands to the west of the canal are at a higher elevation. As such east of

the land are conducive for water retention.

I I

r II

f III i , II!(

8

(10) Release of land carried out pursuant to the divesting committee report

and/or a decision of the Cabinet. Table of the basis of divestiture referred

to in paragraph 16a of the affidavit of the General Manager of the 2

nd

Respondent.

There is no doubt that the land in dispute fall within the area identified as

the Greater Colombo Flood Control Project and with the publication of Gazette

2Rl which is an order made in terms of Section 2 of Act No. 15 of 1968 such an

area is declared to be a reclamation and development area. Rains, sunshine and

wind may be natures/God's gift to mankind but all the same also have its evil

effects on earth. As such the Respondents in this case would have to act and take

certain steps to avert a disaster and especially the 2

nd Respondent would be

bound to minimize the bad effect of flooding due to heavy rains, and for such

purpose need to serve the civil society with its expertise. Over the years and form

time to time, the need arose to study and make recommendations to retain

certain plots of land and in the process to build canals to ensure that flood waters

and waste water is properly drained and also to ensure that as far as possible land

owners are not made to suffer any inconvenience or at least to minimize its

losses. It is unfortunate that the two Petitioners being members of a 'society' as

stated above, a society established to provide housing facilities were deprived of

i! II1

IJ \ If

9

their right to property in the manner demonstrated and described in the

pleadings filed of record, but some others in the same society were successful to

retain their plots of land, allocated to them.

This court having consider the case of both parties and on verifying

facts relevant to the case, cannot conclude that the authorities concerned acted

maliciously, merely because the plots of land claimed by the Petitioners had not

been released to them in comparison to others. It is also a difficult question in the

context of this case to conclude that the authorities concerned were

discriminatory of the Petitioners. Nor can I find sufficient material to issue a Writ

of Mandamus in the manner pleaded and prayed for in the petition. The required

statutory duty and or the public duty to issue a Writ of Mandamus does not seem

to surface from the available material. Therefore I would reject and dismiss the

relief prayed for a Writ of Mandamus. What remains to be decided is whether a

Writ of Certiorari could be issued in the circumstances of this application. Even if

certain grounds that need to be established for the issue of certiorari cannot be

easily proved, the reasonableness of the decision contained in documents P28

and P30 need to be considered. A decision which if found to be unreasonable or

irrational is liable to be quashed by a Writ of Certiorari.

II,

t t t lI

rt

\

\ IIt I f I II{f

J i

1

10

Survey General's plan P8 and the tenement list P8a are not disputed.

Lot No. 33 & 45 are claimed by the Petitioners. Respondents in paragraph 16{a) of

the affidavit refer to the release of lands carried out pursuant to the Divesting

Committee report and a decision of the Cabinet. Several lots as pleaded by the

Respondent are released. Namely lots 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 (part) 11 & 12 all of which

is more to the Northern part of the land in dispute and in extent of more than 15

perches. Lot 33 which is claimed by the Petitioner is only 15 perches. The other

lots released are 21, 22, 34, 35, 37, 39 & 46 are more or less in the middle and

adjacent to the land in dispute and some of those lots are in extent of about 20

perches. Lot 45 claimed by the Petitioner is in extent of 13.4 perches. The

question is whether a plot of land lesser in extent could retain more water than

other lots which are more or less larger in extent than that of the Petitioners. If

that be the case there appears to be a very clear imbalance of the decision taken

in documents P28 & P30.

The other explanation is the higher elevation of the lands that are

more prone to be released. It is pleaded by the Respondents that by reference to

plan 2R6, that area to East of the canal are in a lower lying level, whilst the lands

to the west of the canal are at a higher elevation and as such East of the canal are

II ItI, III If ,

i I

rI

i ! ! ! Ij lI

f

conducive to retain water. Document 2R6 gives a brief description (though not so I

i I

If

it

11

legible}. It is stated that several lots could not be measured for the reasons given

in 3, 4 & 5 of 2R6. This indicates that plan annexed to 2R6 is incomplete for this

reason and measured according to the sea level (limited to certain lots). What is

shown in red lines in the plan is described as the 'ella'. If that be so the portion

shown in red lines only takes a portion of lot 33 & 45. At a glance it is less than

half of lot 33 & 45. Entirety of 33 & 45 do not fall within the canal on their own

showing with reference to the plan. If one compares the height from the sea level

lot 33 gives 1.899 & 1.319 from the sea level. Lot 45 gives 1.601 & 1.076 from the

sea level. The adjacent lot 34, 35 & 39 (adjacent to 33) is less in height at a certain

point, compared to lot 33. Lots 26, 25 & 24 are less in height in comparison to lot

33.

In view of the above facts this court is of the view that it is

unreasonable to retain the entirety of lots 33 & 45 as per plans annexed to 2R6

and survey plan P8. We have also perused document Xl filed with motion of

12.7.2011 which explains that Petitioner Perera's land stands a "greater chance of

getting released". Letter Xl is a letter of the 2

nd Respondent (AG.M) dated

8.7.2008. On the other hand there is material disclosed before this court that

there had been a selective release of about 300 acres of land and what remains is

IiIIIt ! ,

\

l,I

t ,

1l i

f I

\

f

~ i i

I I , I

12

above 700 acres from the Greater Colombo area. Case law support the view that

unreasonableness and irrationality is an extension of the principle of ultra vires.

Development in administrative law usually spread all over the globe. There is no reason

to doubt such development and in Sri Lanka the Court of Appeal did not hesitate to

follow the dicta in Lord Diplock's formal statement on judicial review. In Desmond

Perera and Others vs. Karunaratne Commissioner of National Housing 1994(3) SLR 316

At 318 ...

In the question of the right to be heard administrative action could be made subject to

control by judicial review under three heads:

(i) Illegality

(ii) Irrationality

(iii) Procedural impropriety

Irrationality may succinctly be referred to as unreasonableness. It applies to a decision

which is so outrageous in its defiance of logic or of accepted moral standards that no

sensible person who had applied his mind to the question to be decided could have

arrived at it.

In Fazrul Hefeera and Another Vs. Sokkalingampillai and Others 1998 (3) SLR 60

The decision on "equities" is a matter where the Commissioner could exerci~e his

discretion. Such a decision could be reviewed on the ground of "irrationality". As Lord

Diplock in GCHQ Case Council of Civil Service Unions v. Minister for the Civil Service

explained "Wednesbury Unreasonableness" applies to a "decision which is so

outrageous in its defiance of logic or of accepted moral standards that no sensible

person who had applied his mind to the question to be decided could have arrived at it".

Unless "unreasonableness" or "irrationality" could be treated as an extension of the

~ I I!

I i IIi ! i I ,

~

~ I J

13

principle of ultra vires, the petitioner is faced with the obstacle of section 39(3) read

with section 22 of the Interpretation Ordinance.

In all the above facts and circumstances of this case we are mindful

of the magnitude role of the 2nd Respondent in a project dealing with flood water

and the retention areas needed for the purpose. However this court is of the view

that it is unreasonable not to release the plots of lands claimed by the Petitioners

as stated above. As such we allow the Writ of Certiorari as per sub paragraph (b)

of the prayer to the petition, and quash the decision in letters P28 & P30 without

costs.

Application allowed as above only.

O~----\Y~

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Deepali Wijesundera J.

I agree. / t 1J::jVV!:WI1

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

i , ;

\

I

f !

\ I! i

I

\

! I