==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Kurusuththu Arokyanadar

Accused - Appellant

Vs. CA Appeal No: 292/2009 HC Colombo B 1580/2005

Before

Counsel

Argued on

Decided on

Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery and Corruption.

Sisira de Abrew J &

DSC Lecamwasam J

Respondent

CR De Silva PC for the accused appellant. Thusith Mudalige SSC for the Respondent.

16th, 1 i\ and 18th of November 2011

30.11.2011

Sisira de Abrew J.

The accused appellant (hereinafter referred to as the appellant) in

this case was indicted under Section 19 (b) and 19( c) of the Bribery Act for

soliciting Rs.3000/- from Sabhapathi Kulendran and under Section 19(b) and

19( c) of the Bribery Act for accepting Rs.3000/- from said Sabhapathi

2

Kulendran. The 1 st and 2nd counts were under 19(b) and 19( c) of Bribery Act

for solicitation of Rs.3 000/- The 3 rd and 4th counts were under 19(b) and

19(c) of the Bribery Act for acceptance ofRs.3000/-.

The learned trial Judge, after trial, convicted the accused appellant

on all four counts but sentenced only on 2nd and 4th counts. On the 2nd count

he was sentenced to a term of two years rigorous imprisonment (RI) and to

pay a fine of Rs.5000/- carrying a default sentence of twelve months RI.

Same sentence was imposed in respect of count No.4. In addition to the

above sentence learned trial Judge, acting under section 26 of the Bribery

Act, ordered the accused appellant to pay Rs.3000/- carrying a default

sentence of twelve months RI. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and

the sentence, the accused appellant has appealed to this court.

Facts of this case may be summarized as follows: PC Kulendran

who was a Police officer attached to the Bribery and Corruption

Commission (hereinafter referred to as the BC Commission) on 3.5.2005

met the accused appellant who was a Grama Sevaka and requested a

certificate certifying that he was an unmarried person be issued. He who was

one of the investigating officers in this case made this request after receiving

instructions from his superior officer. The accused appellant requested a sum

ofRs.3000/- to fulfill the request. On 25.5.2005 PC Kulendran, PC Ajith and

IP Liyanage went to Kotahena area where the accused appellant's office is

located. Kulendran gave relevant documents and Rs.3000/- to the accused

appellant and PC Ajith gave a signal to IP Liyanage who came and arrested

the accused appellant with Rs.3000/- given by PC Kulendran. The accused

appellant in his evidence denied the incident. According to him Kulendran

3

came on several occasions and requested a certificate certifying that he was

an unmarried person. On first two occasions he refused. On 3 rd of May when

he came for the 3 rd time he cried and asked for the certificate. Accused

appellant requested him to bring the relevant documents. On 25th of May

Kulendran came with relevant documents. He kept some of the documents

with him and gave the rest to Kulendran who thereafter left the place. He

(the accused appellant) thereafter went near his cupboard to keep his

documents. When he came back to his table Kulendran and five others came

and asked for money. When he questioned about it he saw a thousand rupee

note fallen on the ground near his chair. When he refused the request by

witness Liyanage to pick up the note and give, Liyanage came to assault

him. Then he was taken into custody. This was the summery of the evidence

of the accuse appellant.

Rangasamy was called by the accused appellant. According to

him on 25.5.2005 he came to the communication centre which was two feet

away from the accused appellant's table to take a call. At this time a person

who was talking to the accused went away. When the accused appellant

went inside his room, the said person came back, kept a thousand rupee note

on the accused appellant's table and went away. Just then said person came

back with three others and the accused appellant too came back to his table.

They requested the people in the communication centre to leave the place.

Later he saw the accused appellant being taken away by them. This was the

summery of Rangasamy's evidence. From this evidence it is clear that

Rangasamy had not seen the end of the incident that took place at the

accused appellant's table.

4

Evidence of Rangasamy is that he saw somebody placing a

thousand rupee note on the table of the accused appellant. He does not say

that he saw a thousand rupee note fallen on the ground. But the evidence of

the accused appellant was that he saw the thousand rupee note fallen on the

ground. The learned trial Judge on the said contradiction rejected the

defence evidence. It is to be noted that Rangasamy could not have seen the

end of the incident that took place at the accused appellant's table as he and

the others were asked to leave the place by the BC Commission officers.

Isn't it possible for the thousand rupee note to fall from the table? No one

can say it is impossible. For these reasons I hold that it was incorrect for the

learned trial Judge to reject the defence evidence on the said ground. Even if

one assumes that Rangasamy cannot be believed, was it correct for the

learned trial Judge to reject the evidence of the accused appellant? I now

advert to this question. It has to be noted that the accused appellant made his

statement to Bribery officers whilst he was in their custody and therefore it

has to be a prompt statement. Accused gave lengthy evidence but the

prosecution could not mark any contradictions or omissions with his

statement. This shows that his evidence satisfies the test of consistency. In

my view if evidence of an accused person who makes a prompt statement

whilst in the custody of investigators satisfies the test of consistency, it is

something that must be considered in his favour when evaluating his

evidence. The learned trial Judge has failed to consider these matters.

However it has to be stated that accused cannot be confronted with

confessional parts of his statement made to the investigating officer.

Although the learned trial Judge rejected the evidence of the accused

appellant on the said contradiction what is the evidence of the Bribery

officers with regard to the taking of Rs.3000/- from the accused appellant.

5

Liyanage, at 136 of the brief, says that when he questioned the accused

appellant about the money, he (the accused appellant) took the money from

his trouser pocket and gave. But he contradicts this evidence at page 150 of

the brief and says that the accused appellant took money from the shirt

pocket and gave. Learned trial Judge failed to consider this vital

contradiction. IP Liyanage is a Police Officer. When police officers come to

give evidence they do so after reading their notes. Police Officers when

giving evidence cannot make contradictions of this nature. Such a

contradiction therefore becomes a vital contradiction which can shake the

truth of the prosecution case. Benefit of such contradictions must be given to

the accused.

Kulendra who is a Police Officer says, at page 59 of the brief, that

when he gave Rs.3000/- to the accused appellant he kept the currency notes

in his trouser pocket. But PC Ajith, at page III of the brief, says that the

accused appellant took Rs.3000/- from his shirt pocket and gave them to IP

Liyanage. Here again one Police Officer contradicts the other Police Officer.

As I pointed out earlier ~olice officers, before giving evidence, read their

notes. Therefore when this kind of contradiction is marked it becomes a vital

contradiction which is capable of creating a reasonable doubt in the

prosecution case. Learned trial Judge failed to consider these matters. When

these contradictions are considered very serious doubts are created in the

truth of the prosecution case and the evidence of the accused that thousand

rupee currency note was on the ground becomes believable. When I consider

all these matters I hold the view that the rejection of the evidence of the

accused was wrong. Further these contradictions in my view create

reasonable doubts in the prosecution case relating to the acceptance of

6

Rs.3000/- by the accused appellant and also shake the credibility of the three

Police Officers (pe Kulendran, pe Ajith and IP Liyanage). Learned sse

upholding the best traditions of the Attorney General's Department

submitted that in view of the said contradictions he would not support the

convictions on acceptance charges (3 rd and 4th charges). For the above

reasons I hold the view that convictions on 3rd and 4th counts cannot be

permitted to stand. I therefore set aside the convictions on 3rd and 4th counts

and acquit the accused appellant of 3rd and 4th counts. But learned sse

submitted that he would support the convictions on solicitation charges (1 st

and 2

nd counts). He submitted that the accused appellant in document

marked P7 had made a false recommendation to his superior officer. He

contended that no Grama Sevaka would make this kind of false

recommendation except for money. I now advert to this contention. The

evidence of the accused appellant must be considered when considering this

contention. According to the accused appellant on 3.5.2005 Kulendran came

and cried asking for the certificate and requested him to consider the case as

one of his children's cases. He therefore decided to help Kulendran. It is true

that no Grama Sevaka would make a recommendation risking his

employment. But different people act in different ways. Therefore it is

difficult to make a sweeping statement that no Grama Sevaka would make

this kind of recommendation except for money.

What is the other evidence to affirm the conviction on

solicitation? Prosecution has only the evidence of Kulendran to support the

convictions on solicitation counts. Learned sse contended that the accused

appellant had not denied the charge of solicitation in his evidence. The

7

accused appellant at 191 of the brief denied the charge of solicitation.

Therefore I am unable to agree with the said contention.

I have earlier set aside the conviction on the 3rd and the 4th counts.

In view of the contradiction in IP Liyanage's evidence and the contradictions

between PC Kulendran and PC Ajith, their evidence on the acceptance of

Rs.3000/- will have to be rejected. Further in view of the said contradictions

it is doubtful whether IP Liyanage took Rs.3000/- from the possession of the

accused appellant and there is a very serious doubt whether currency notes

were taken from the possession of the accused appellant. The evidence of the

accused appellant is that he saw a thousand rupee note on the ground.

Rangasamy's evidence is that he saw a person placing a thousand rupee note

on the accused appellant's table. I have earlier held that the rejection of the

accused appellant's evidence by the trial Judge was wrong. When I consider

all these matters reliance can be placed on the defence evidence. The

evidence of the accused appellant was that the thousand rupee note was on

the ground. If he had solicited money from Kulendran why should he allow

it to fall on the ground? He should have, without hesitation, accepted it.

Therefore the accused appellant's evidence creates a reasonable doubt in the

entire evidence of the three Police Officers including the evidence relating to

the solicitation. Then the accused appellant should be acquitted of

solicitation charges.

PC Kulendran is the only witness who speaks about the

solicitation. Learned SSC contended that although PC Kulendran's evidence

on the acceptance ofRs.3000/- was rejected, his evidence on the solicitation

charge can be accepted. Can the court reject evidence of one witness on one

8

charge and accept the evidence on the other charge. To answer this question

I would like to consider a judicial decision. In Samaraweera V s Attorney

General [1990] 1 SLR 256 Court of Appeal observed following facts.

"Four accused were indicted for murder on charges under sections 296,

315, 314 of the Penal Code. At the end of the prosecution case the 1 st and 4th

accused were acquitted on the directions of the judge to the jury. At the

conclusion of the trial the 2nd accused was acquitted by the unanimous

verdict of the jury while the 3 rd accused appellant was found guilty of

culpable homicide not amounting to murder on the basis of grave and

sudden provocation on the count of murder and acquitted on the other

counts. The main challenge to the verdict was on the ground that it was

unreasonable having regard to the fact that the same witness who testified

against the 3rd accused had testified against the 2nd accused who was

acquitted. Having disbelieved the two witnesses as against the 2nd accused,

the jury should not have accepted their evidence against the 3rd accused

appellant. The maxim falsus in uno falsus in ominibus should have been

applied."

Held:

"The verdict was supportable in that the acquittal of the 2nd accused could

be attributable to the fact that vicarious liability on the basis of common

intention could be imputed to him on the evidence even if the two witnesses

were believed. The maxim falsus in uno falsus in ominibus could not be

applied in such circumstances. Further all falsehood is not deliberate. Errors

of memory faulty observation or lack of skill in observation upon any point

or points, exaggeration or mere embroidery or embellishment must be

distinguished from deliberate falsehood before applying the maxim. Nor

does the maxim apply to cases of testimony on the same point between

9

different witnesses. In any event this maxim is not an absolute rule which

has to be applied without exception in every case where a witness is shown

to have given false evidence on a material point. When such evidence is

given by a witness the question whether other portions of his evidence can

be accepted as true may not be resolved in his favour unless there is some

compelling reason for doing so. The credibility of witnesses can be treated

as divisible and accepted against one and rejected against another. The jury

or judge must decide for themselves whether that part of the testimony

which is found to be false taints the whole or whether the false can safely be

separated from the truth."

Applying the principles laid down in the above judicial decision, I

hold that Court can reject the evidence of a witness on one charge and accept

his evidence on another charge if there are compelling reasons to de so. In

the instant case PC Kulendran's evidence on the charge of acceptance of

Rs.3000/- has been rejected by me. Are there compelling reasons for me to

accept his evidence on the charge of solicitation? I have earlier held that

reliance could be placed on the accused appellant's evidence. The evidence

of the accused appellant is to the effect that the thousand rupee note was on

the ground. If reliance could be placed on the evidence of the accused

appellant then court has to conclude that currency notes were foisted upon

him by the investigators of this case. Then can the court accept the entire

evidence? I say no. If they could introduce Rs.3000/- to the accused, what is

the difficulty for them to level an allegation of solicitation? I therefore hold

that there are no compelling reasons to accept part of Kulendran' s evidence

when the other part has been rejected. For these reasons I hold the view that

I am unable to accept the evidence of PC Kulendran on the solicitation

10

count. If his evidence cannot be accepted on the charge of solicitation, the

accused appellant should be acquitted of the solicitation charges.

There is another matter that should be considered. According to

the indictment charge of solicitation was on 18.5.2005. But according to the

evidence of PC Kulendran the alleged solicitation was on 2

nd of May 2005.

Learned PC therefore contended that the accused appellant had been misled

by this error. Learned SSC contended that solicitation of Rs.3000/- was the

only amount solicited by the accused appellant and as such accused

appellant could not say that he was misled. Section 166 of the Criminal

Procedure Code reads as follows: "Any error in stating either the offence or

the particulars required to be stated in the charge and any omission to state

the offence or these particulars shall not be regarded at any stage of the case

as material, unless the accused was misled by such error or omission."

The most important question that must be decided is whether the

accused appellant was misled by the said error. That is to say that the

evidence reveals the solicitation was on the 3rd of May 2005 but the

indictment alleges that the solicitation was on the 18th of May 2005. The

accused appellant in his evidence stated that PC Kulendran came to meet

him on four occasions. According to the evidence led at the trial there was

no meeting between the accused appellant and PC Kulendran on 18th of May

2005. Which is the allegation that the accused should answer? Is it the

allegation on the 3 rd or the 18th ? When these matters are considered it can

be said that the said error in the charge a material error and that the accused

was misled at the trial. Learned SSC contended that since the indictment

alleges the commission of the offence was on or about 18th of May 2005

11

period of fifteen days could be considered within the meaning of the term' on

or about'. He cited PandithaKoralage Vs Selvanayagam 56 NLR 143

wherein Swan J observed the following facts: "The date given in the plaint

of an alleged offence was stated to be 'on or about March 28, 1954.'

Held, that a mistaken date in an indictment is not a material error unless the

date is of the essence of the offence or the accused is prejudiced." It has to

be noted here that the error in the charge of the said case was only one day.

This judicial decision is not an authority for the contention that is being

debated in this case since the error in the charge of this case is fifteen days.

Learned PC cited Attorney General V s Dheen 61 CL W 74

where the charge against the accused was to the effect that he on 18th of

December 1951 committed criminal breach of trust on Rs.340.09. But there

was no evidence to prove the commission of an offence on that day. The

accused was discharged by the Magistrate. The Attorney General appealed.

In appeal it was contended that the averments in the charge, taken together,

was reasonably sufficient to give the accused notice of the matter with which

he was charged. Gunasekara J held thus: "the charge meant that the offence

was committed on 18th of December 1951, and that the prosecution had

failed to prove this charge. All what the accused had to do was to show that

there was no evidence that he misappropriated any money on the day in

question." I have to note in the said case the charge did not allege the

accused committed the offence on or about 18th of December but alleged that

it was on 18th of December.

In the instant case the indictment alleged that the offence was

committed on or about 18th of May 2005. But the prosecution did not lead

•

•

12

evidence to prove this charge and as such it has to be concluded that the

charge has not been proved. When I consider all these matters I am unable to

conclude that term 'on or about' covers a period of fifteen days. If the

evidence reveals that the offence was committed around midnight then

difference of one day is permissible. But there is no justification to permit a

difference of fifteen days. If the offence was committed during a period then

the prosecution has a right to state the period. For the above reasons I hold

that the charges of solicitation have not been proved by the prosecution. I do

not intend to direct a re trial on the solicitation charges as I have else where

of this judgment held that I was unable to accept PC Kulendran's evidence

on solicitation charges. I have earlier decided that the accused appellant

should be acquitted on solicitation charges,

F or these reasons I set aside the convictions ant the sentences of

the accused appellant on all four counts and acquit him of all the counts.

Appeal allowed.

DSC Lecamwasam J

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

Judge of the Court of Appeal.