==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA 1363/2000 F

DC Embilipitiya No. 9071L

Weerasinghe Arachchilage Dingiri

Mahattaya Weerasinghe, Yapl Ara, Pallebedda.

Plaintiff

1. Jahinge Sirisena, Dole Gedara, PalleKumbura, Godakawela. 2. Nekath Kiyanage Dindiri Mahattaya, C/o Podisingho's Boutique, Palle Kumbura, Godakawela. 3. Logge Mohottalalage Dingiri Mahattaya, (deceased) 3 a. Weerasuriya Muhandiramlage Dingiri Menike, Yapal Ara, Palle Bedda.

Defendants

AND NOW BETWEEN

Weerasinghe Arachchilage Dingiri Mahattaya Weerasinghe, Yapl Ara, Pallebedda.

Plaintiff Appellant

I

J

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

2

Vs

1. Jahinge Sirisena, Dole Gedara, PalleKumbura, Godakawela. 2. N ekath Kiyanage Dindiri Mahattaya, C/o Podisingho's Boutique, Palle Kumbura, Godakawela. 3. Logge Mohottalalage Dingiri Mahattaya, (deceased) 3a. Weerasuriya Muhandiramlage Dingiri Menike, (Deceased)

3b.Logge Mohottalalage Sanath Dhammika,

3c.Logge Mohottalalage Rasika Dhammika,

3d.Logge Mohottalalage Sugath Dhammika, All of Yapal Ara, Palle Bedda.

Substituted Defendant Respondents

: UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

W. Dayartne PC with Nadeeka K Arachchi for

the Plaintiff Appellant

G. Samaranayake with R.M.N. Ratnayake for the

1 st and 2nd Defendant Respondents.

20.11.2013

26.02.2014

I I

I. I1 III

J ! !If

I I

3

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

The Plaintiff Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant)

instituted the said action against the 1 st to 3rd Defendant Respondents (hereinafter

referred to as the Respondents) in the District Court of Kuliyapitiya seeking inter

alia a declaration of title to the land described in the schedule to the plaint.

The Respondents prayed for a dismissal of the said action. The case

proceeded to trial on 21 issues. After trial, the learned Additional District Judge

has dismissed the action. Being aggrieved by the said judgment dated 06.09.2000

the Appellant has appealed to this Court.

The learned Counsel for the Appellant submitted that the learned

Additional District Judge was wrong in concluding that the Appellant has failed to

identify the corpus of the action. I now advert to the said submission.

According to the schedule to the plaint the subject matter was a land

called "Ehalagaha Rena and Bogaha Rena bounded on the north by Malwatte Rena

and Wedikkarage Rena, on the east by Aluthwatte Rena and Mahakandure Rena,

on the south by Righ Road from Pallekumbura to Yapal Ara on the west by the

land cultivated by Brahakmanahamy and containing in extent of 03 Pela and 02

Kuruni. According to the ancient measures said 03 Pela and 02 Kuruni is

equivalent to 2 acres.

At the trial the Appellant has produced a survey plan bearing No 417

dated 22.01.1989 and the report of the said plan marked X. According to the said

plan the Appellant has shown a larger land in extent of 10 Acres and 17.9 Perches

! Il ! !

t ,! I t 1I Ii " 1

4

as the subject matter of the action. The Surveyor, in his report has stated that there

was no land called Malwatte Hena on the Northern Boundary and also in addition

to 'Brahmanahamige Hena' the land surveyed was bounded on the west by the land

ofM.V. Jayawardena.

According to the Report of the Plan X lots 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and

11 have been claimed by the persons who were in possession of the said lots upon

permits issued by the Land Reform Commission. The Appellant has not led any

evidence to explain the said position.

In the aforesaid circumstances I am of the view that the Appellant has

failed to identify the land in suit. Hence I find no reason to interfere with the

judgement of the learned Additional District Judge dated 06.09.2000. Therefore I

dismiss the instant appeal of the Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal