==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A. (PHC) No. 186/05 P.H.C. Kalutara Rev. 04/2003

K. Somachandra

Appellant Vs.

The Hon Attorney General Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

And Another

Respondent

C.A. (PHC) No. 186/05 P.H.C. Kalutara Rev. 04/2003.

Before A.W.A.Salam, J. and

Sunil Rajapakshe,J.

Counsel Appellant absent and unrepresented.

Anurdha Darmawardena for the Plaintiff-Respondent.

Argued and

Decided on : 18.02.2014

A.W.A.Salam,J.

This is an appeal preferred by the respondent- petitioner- appellant to

have the judgment of the learned High Court Judge dated 31/8/2005

revised and set aside. The respondent- petitioner- appellant has filed the

revision application in the High Court seeking to have the order of ejectment

entered by the learned Magistrate set aside on the basis that the ejectment

order has been entered contrary to law. The learned High Court Judge by

the impugned order has dismissed the revision application mainly on the

ground that the respondent-petitioner- appellant has failed to comply with

Rule 3 of the Supreme Court, in that he has not produced any relevant

material to except the order made by the learned Magistrate which was

marked as X6. On a perusal of the brief, it is quite in evident that the

respondent -petitioner- appellant has failed to produce the application,

•

affidavit and the notice to quit which constitute the material documents. In

the circumstances, we are of the view that the learned High Court Judge

cannot be faulted for his decision by which he came to the conclusion that

there has no sufficient compliance of the Rule 3 of the Supreme Court by

the respondent - petitioner -appellant. As such, We do not see any ground

to interfere with the judgment of the learned High Court Judge or the

ejectment order entered by the learned Magistrate. Hence the appeal stands

dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Sunil Rajapakshe,J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

WC/-

;,

I!

~Iif

~

rfI

i