==== BLOCKS ==== 

t

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 1312/2000 F

D.C. Panadura No. 355/ Partition

Ranasinghage Saiman Perera, No. 82, Dhibbedda Road,

Thalpitiya, Wadduwa.

Plaintiff

Vs.

1. Ranasinghage Pabilis Perera, No. 74, Dhibbedda Road,

Thalpitiya, Wadduwa. 2. Guruge Asilin Perera, No. 86, Dhibbedda Road, Thalpitiya, Wadduwa. 3. Ananda Wijesekera, No.76, Dhibbedda Road, Thalpitiya, Wadduwa.

AND NOW BETWEEN

Defendants

Ranasinghage Saiman Perera, No. 82, Dhibbedda Road, Thalpitiya, Wadduwa.

Plaintiff Appellant Vs

1. Ranasinghage Pabilis Perera, No. 74, Dhibbedda Road,

Thalpitiya, Wadduwa. 2. Guruge Asilin Perera, No. 86, Dhibbedda Road, Thalpitiya, Wadduwa. 3. Ananda Wijesekera, No.76, Dhibbedda Road, Thalpitiya, Wadduwa.

Defendant Respondents

! i i:

1III

,

BEFORE

COUNSEL

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

Appellant - absent and unrepresented

Respondents - absent and unrepresented

16.01.2014

The Plaintiff Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant)

instituted the said action against the Defendant Respondents (hereinafter referred

to as the Respondents) in the District Court of Panadura seeking a judgment to

partition the land described in the schedule to the plaint.

The 1 st Respondent has filed a statement of claim admitting the

pedigree and the scheme of partition set out in the plaint. The 2nd Respondent has

filed a statement of claim seeking a dismissal of the Appellant's action. The 3rd

Respondent has filed a statement of claim seeking a 1I4th share of the corpus. The

case proceeded to trial on 16 issues. After trial the learned District Judge has

dismissed the Appellant's action. Being aggrieved by the said judgment dated

21.11.2000 the Appellant has preferred the present appeal to this court.

The Appellant has set out several grounds of appeal in the petition of

appeal. His main grievance was that the judgment is against the weight of the

evidence.

I

f} ,

fIt

,

~ ,t! i f f

1,,

t

\

3

I have carefully considered the impugned judgment of the learned

District Judge and the evidence adduced at the trial. When I consider the said

evidence I am of the view that the learned trial judge has come to a right

conclusion considering the evidence led before court.

In the said circumstances I see no reason to interfere with the said

judgement of the learned District Judge dated 21.11.2000. Therefore I dismiss the

appeal of the Appellant without costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

t f , ! tt\ , ,

! I I! f

f I 1