==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A 1 77/1997 (F) D.C. Gampaha 30391

A. Samarasiri Kaluarachchi of No. 35/9, Veyangoda Road, Kalagedihena.

PLAINTIFF

Vs.

Mallika Iranganie Wadupola of Pillassa, Kurunegla.

DEFENDANT

And

A. Samarasiri Kaluarachchi of No. 35/49, Veyangoda Road, Kalagedihena.

PLAINTIFF -APPELLANT

Mallika Iranganie Wadupola of Pillassa, Kurunegla.

DEFENDANT -RESPONDENT

..

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J.

N.R.M. Daluwatte P.C. with W.D. A. Fernando for Plaintiff-Appellant

S.N. Vijithsinghe with C. Liyanage for 1 st Defendant-Respondent

06.05.2011

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON: 24.06.2011 - Defendant-Respondent 20.07.2011 - Plaintiff-Appellant

DECIDED ON: 02.08.2011

GOONERA TNE J.

2

This was a Divorce suit filed in the District Court of Gampaha

by the Plaintiff husband, against his wife the Defendant-Respondent on

grounds of malicious desertion. According to the plaint Defendant

maliciously deserted her husband on or about 30.06.1987. This appeal arises

from the judgment of the Learned District Judge dated 22.01.1997,

dismissing Plaintiff s action. In the said judgment the relief sought by the

Defendant-Respondent in her amended answer (paragraph '(tI)' of the prayer)

relating to adultery of Plaintiff-Appellant was also dismissed. Parties

proceeded to trial on 22 issues and 2 admissions. The fact that by this

3

marriage a child by the name of Rajitha Madusanga was born and that the

matrimonial home was set up at Dewalapola Balabowe were admitted facts.

By Marriage Certificate marked PI parties married on or about 10.04.1986.

In the plaint it is pleaded that parties after marriage lived together without

any problem for about 6 months. Plaintiff was holding the post of Assistant

Government Agent and the wife was a Graduate Teacher at the time of

marriage.

The learned President's Counsel for the Appellant drew the

attention of this court to certain items of evidence and sought to demonstrate

to this court that the learned District Judge has erred in his conclusions on

the question of malicious desertion. On the other hand learned Counsel for

Defendant-Respondent stress the fact of her in-laws from time to time

created problems for her suggesting ill treatment by the in-laws and bringing

about an intolerable situation and land-lord's request for the house, which

led her to leave the matrimonial home. The evidence led in the trial court

indicates that Plaintiffs two sisters and a husband of one of the Plaintiffs

sisters lived in the matrimonial house. This is indicative of the fact that both

the Plaintiff and his wife could not lead an independent trouble free life

without interference from the beginning of their marriage. In fact disputes

and quarrels with in-laws are not denied by Plaintiff. It is in evidence that

4

Plaintiff has been away from the house during week-days due to his

employment and was able to join the wife only during the week-end. The

absence for a period as above left room for the Plaintiff to hear gossip from

his sisters who kept on saying unpleasant things about his wife.

It is in evidence that the two of them had quarrels during week-

ends and things seem to have gradually developed with a police complaint

marked P2. Evidence has been given that the Defendant wife had been

raising her voice or shouting which even the neighbours could hear, and

such conduct had been confirmed in the evidence of Kaviraj Ranaweera

called by Plaintiff. P2 complaint by Plaintiff states that the wife had left the

house with the child and stayed with a neighbour and very many people in

the area had gathered which resulted in making the Plaintiff shameful and

insulted. It is further stated that the Defendant threatened to commit suicide

and or drink poison, and that P2 statement had been made for future

reference. There is also material placed in the lower court that after the child

was born the wife as usual stayed with her parents and after sometime

returned to her matrimonial home. Thereafter quarrels became worse and

developed into a worse situation. The date on which, according to Plaintiff,

desertion took place had been 28.06.1987. (Two weeks after the complaint

P2).

5

The Plaintiff suggested only 3 issues, whether 6 months after

marriage the wife gave up her matrimonial obligations (as in paragraph 5 of

plaint) and malicious desertion of wife on 30.6.1987. Consequential issue (3)

for relief in terms of the prayer. In contrast Defendant-Respondent raised

issues 4-21. The summary of it is that Defendant had to live with in-laws

who created problems for her and Plaintiff took the side of in-laws.

Defendants request to take her to the official residence and failure of

Plaintiff to adhere to such request. Further when the child was born she went

and stayed with the parents. Thereafter the question of returning to the house

at Dewelapola. Land-lords demand to vacate house on 27.6.1987. All

furniture in the house sent to Plaintiff s sister's house at Kalagedihena.

Plaintiff had on that occasion, taken the wife and child to her parent's house

and left them in the parent's house. Issue No. 14 suggest request of 15t

Defendant to live with Plaintiff and child and Plaintiffs failure or neglect of

such request. The important issues are No. 16 -17 suggesting 15t Defendant

visiting the Plaintiff in his official residence on 02.9.1987 at Mihintale and

the Plaintiff act as in paragraph 12 of answer. i.e. not coming to the

residence at Mihintale by Plaintiff and informing police who requested her

to quit the house. As a result she went to her parent's home. Issue No. 19 -21

6

relate to the Co-Defendant but the District Court had answered them in the

negative.

The issues taken in it's entirety suggest a story but the truth of it

need to be ascertained by reference to evidence. However all above are

factual matters that had been considered by the learned District Judge who

had the opportunity to listen to the evidence of witnesses and test demeanor

of the witnesses and decide on all factual matters. This court will not

interfere unnecessarily with factual matters unless for good reason.

Even if three Judges heard this case (no valid objection for

hearing), I cannot blame the prevalent court system in our country and

observe same not to be a breach of audi aultrem partem, rule.

The all important matter to be decided is the question of

malicious desertion and whether the District Judge is correct on this aspect

of his conclusion. At this point I would prefer to incorporate the following

authorities to consider the legal aspects of malicious desertion before I

decide on the evidence led at the trial and trial Judge's conclusion.

Malicious desertion must be of such a character as would justify the inference that

the spouse who is alleged to have deserted the other did so deliberately and with

the intention of repudiating the marriage state. 34 N.L.R at 8; 13 Law Rec. at 58

see 26 N.L.R 113. In the absence of a deliberate intention to repudiate the

marriage the refusal to return to the husband does not amount to malicious

desertion 12 Law Rec. 40. But where a woman leaves her husband finally against

7

his will and without legal justification her desertion could in law be malicious. 35

N.L.R 174. Lapse of time is not the sole standard by which malicious desertion is

determined. 2 B.R 138. Refusal to consummate a marriage amounts in law to

desertion and entitles the wife to obtain a dissolution of marriage. 25 N.L.R 222.

Desertion is a continuing offence. It is a continuing course of conduct. 29 N.L.R

at 325; 9 Law Rec. 60.

Desertion to be a ground for divorce must be malicious; that is to say, it must be a

deliberate and unconscientious, definite, and final repudiation of the obligations

of the marriage state. 26 N .L.R 113

Based on evidence learned District Judge has considered the

aspect of 'desertion'. The judgment refer to Plaintiff-Appellant's version of

malicious desertion stating that on or about 30.6.1987 after a dispute the

Defendant's wife had got down a hiring car and left the house with the child

and her belongings on her own volition. To support Plaintiffs version

witnesses Dharmaratne, Ranaweera and a sister of Plaintiff was called to

give evidence. (Folio 309/310 of brief). In the judgment Defendant's version

was also considered, that on or about 28.6.1987 Plaintiff had taken the

Defendant and child in a hiring car and left her at the parent's house as

Pillessa, on the pretext of land-lord demanding the house and promising her

that no sooner he finds another house he would bring her back. In this regard

District Court has considered the evidence of Defendant's father and one

Benedict Mendis. Witness B. Mendis state that Plaintiff had brought the

8

Defendant and child to the house of the parents and that the witness was

present at the time they arrived, and after sometime Plaintiff left. The

District Judge in order to arrive at a conclusion has looked at police

complaint 1 VI by 1 st Defendant to Veyangoda Police made on 30.6.1987

about a divorce by Plaintiff and the fact that Plaintiff would take up the

position that Defendant left him. Such complaint was made for future

reference. It was District Judge's view that in view of above the wife did not

have the intention to desert the husband. Further P2 makes it clear according

to it's contents the trial Judge state that it was agonizing for the Plaintiff to

continue married life. Thereafter within about 2 lh months from statement P2

Plaintiff filed action. It appears to this court that the original Court Judge has

accepted the more probable version of the 1 st Defendant-Respondent. I do

not wish to interfere with the trial Judge's views above. (contained in folios

312/313 of the judgment). To add to this I would also contribute that the

gradual harassment by the in-laws from the very early days of marriage

would be some form of encouragement for the wife to accept husband's

request which was coupled by land-lord's demand to vacate the house. It

was more or less a ruse and a wily subterfuge, to get rid of her.

On the above version of Defendant-Respondent I cannot come

to a conclusion that the wife has deliberately left the matrimonial house with

9

the intention of repudiating marriage ties. Evidence suggests that she was led

or mislead by her husband to leave the house.

The question of reconciliation had also been considered by the

District Judge. Reference is made to V4, V5 & V6 to support reconciliation

on the part of the wife. Letter V 4 does not suggest an intention to desert the

Plaintiff. It is a very humble request on the part of the wife to get another

house and start the usual life. It is dated 26.7.1987. V5 and V4 taken

together does not suggest malice in any form. V6 telegram is sent in an

emergency to request the husband to come immediately as child is sick.

Original plaint filed in September 1987. Even time limit seems to be

insufficient.

The learned trial Judge has in the judgment considered and

compared the several acts and evidence of Plaintiff-Appellants to ascertain

as to whether Defendant' wife deliberately and or maliciously deserted the

husband. The followings are noted and elicited from the judgment of the

District Judge.

(l) Witness of Plaintiff Dharmaratne visiting house of Defendant's parents at

'Pillassa' to request Defendant to resume marriage ties. Denied and rejected by

wife.

(2) Plaintiff's evidence admitting that since 28.6.1987 never went to the house of

wife's parents.

10

(3) Taking a house on rent by Plaintiff at Veyangoda as in his evidence. Judge's

observations that if Plaintiff could come to the Veyangoda house from his official

residence at Mihintale during Week-ends, there is no difficulty to get to 'Pillassa'

Kurunegala to visit wife. As such there is a deliberate refusal to visit the wife and

resume marital relationship.

(4) Further to matters stated in (3) above the small child of Plaintiff and Defendant

was at the house at pillassa Kurunegala. But the Plaintiff had not ever bothered to

see the child. As the trial Judge observes' ... ~f)~@ ~Cl;e» ffiC)@", 8@l;cl®C5 1

~~ eroffiesn(3", Q®(S) e>6) (fmC, el;®~(§tmOl; 0065 ~Cl;e» Q)l;@®C:> @(5» @6»@(S)Jcl

e>l;@6\ ffiC)® ~®c"C) cs>CUeXJ6\.

Further to above the following extract is incorporated from the

judgment of the Original Court is included regarding Trial Judge's views

after service of summons of Defendant-Respondent.

1 (!e:>B1 E)tlS6)fIl)}C3coC) Slj)}S @r;Q)(!@)65 a~~ (fr;co ~6r;e:>) Q@)(S) Q5) Sco 8c.o}

Q@)(S) ®B>65Q)(!@ ar;®~@oor;(!cs5 B1@ Ble)QC) (!C5.»c:5 (fr;6) (fQ)6, ar;®~@oor;

Ce:>@)5)}(!e:>65® Ble)S65 @)(S) 5)r;6 (fr;6) Q)e:> @~C3atlS E) (fr;6) Q}&l5fj (f~ (!OO

coco. ®B>65Q)@coC) (!@)@) 5)~e:> ar;e:>Q(!@)65 a~e:> 1 (!e:>B1 E)tlS6)fIl)}C3co ar;®~ Q)e:>

ar;®~@oor; 8@(S)B1. Q)e)~ 1987/06/28 65 a~ 1 (!e:>B1 E)tlSoo>C3co Q)r;@®C)

(!5)J ~e:>) (!(S)5) ~@)C) Q)@)} (!5)}G)co Q)e:>~ ar;®~@oor; (i)§}(!cs5 Q}&l5fj(!~

8@ (!(S)5) (fr;Q). Q)e:>~ 1990/1 0/25 (!e:>B1 ~5) Q}~ e:>@ 13 8~(!~ 1 (!e:>B1

E)OOfll)}C3co OO}5)CO (!(S)5) cor;@)C) ~@)6tlS(!Q)65 SC)5) Q)e:> ar;®~@oor;

• 11

The argument of learned President's Counsel that desertion was

not as in issue No.2 but when witness Dharmaratne's evidence suggesting a

request to join the Appellant and refusal by wife to accept such officer

would be the point of malicious desertion is not tenable as that seems not to

be the position in the original court which view I endorse. In any event that

position cannot amount to desertion with malice, in view of (1) to (4) above

and the several attempts on the part of the Defendant wife and her father to

reconcile, being turned down or rejected by Appellant. I also agree with

learned counsel for Respondent that a party cannot be permitted to present a

different case in appeal. Bastian's case 1993(1) SLR 184.

I also agree that Appellant's conduct makes matters easy for

both courts to decide the case in favour of the Defendant-Respondent. In

Muthukumaraswamy V s. Parameswary 78 NLR 488 - Deserted spouse must

always until presentation of plaint affirm the marriage and be ready to take

back the wife. Appellant never expressed a desire to do so, though the wife

tried on several occasions on her own and with her father to resume marriage

ties. The evidence available suggest that the Plaintiff-Appellant either

willingly or unwilling or deliberately whittled the process of reconciliation.

•

12

In all the above circumstances I am of the view that there is no

merit in this appeal. The Defendant wife had been harassed by the in-laws.

This fact was not specifically rejected by the Plaintiff. Interference of in-

laws is a perennial problem in our society. At times it is a mere prestige

battle, and result in break down of marriages, and attempts to deny

association of relatives as the truth is very often hidden or exaggerated.

Plaintiff-Appellant seems to have worked according to a plan to get rid of

his wife and child by a gradual process. Initially the problems created by in-

laws. Then constant quarrel between the two of them, as a result of conduct

of in-laws. Finally the plan to force the wife to leave the matrimonial home

and denial of reconciliation. The learned District Judge has carefully

considered all the available evidence and pronounced a well considered

judgment. As such I affirm the judgment of the District Court and dismiss

this appeal with costs.

Appeal dismissed.