==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 1064 / 2000 F

D.C. Polonnaruwa No. 7455/M/98

A.A. V. Amarasekera, Gal Kotuwa, Niwatuwa, Dorawaka. (via Warakapola)

Vs.

Plaintiff

Dolapihille Ilukketiye Kalagaha Gedara

Wasantha Malani Hamine, "Srimali Florist"

Chaithya Road Medirigiriya.

,

AND NOW BETWEEN

A.A.V. Amarasekera, Gal Kotuwa, Niwatuwa, Dorawaka. (via W arakapola)

Defendant

Plaintiff Appellant

Vs

Dolapihille Ilukketiye Kalagaha Gedara

Wasantha Malani Hamine, "Srimali Florist"

Chaithya Road Medirigiriya.

,

Defendant Respondent

~ II

IIf f· ! ! j !

\r

\

ftl

fl

If f

2

BEFORE UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

COUNSELS Plaintiff Appellant- Absent and unrepresented

Defendant Respondent Absent and

unrepresented

DECIDED ON 26.04.2012

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

This appeal has been preferred from an order dismissing the Plaintiff

Appellant's action. The Plaintiff Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the

Appellant) instituted the said action against the Defendant Respondent (hereinafter

referred to as the Respondent) in the District Court of Polonnaruwa seeking to

recover a sum of Rs. 27,5001=. The Appellant's case was that the Respondent,

upon an agreement, agreed to pay a sum of Rs 60,0001- to the Appellant and

accordingly the Respondent paid a sum of Rs. 32,0001- at the time of signing the

said agreement and thereafter the Respondent has evaded the payment of the

balance sum ofRs 27,0001-.

The Respondent took up inter alia the position that since the Appellant

has failed to produce in court the documents he relied on the action of the

Appellant should be dismissed under Section 50 of the Civil Procedure Code.

Thereafter the learned District Judge has dismissed the Appellant's action.

t

f

3

It is apparent from the averment of the plaint that the said agreement

was in the Appellant's possession or power. He has not stated that the document

was not in his possession or power. Section 50 of the Civil Procedure Code

stipulates that "if a plaintiff sues upon a document in his possession or power, he

shall produce it in court when the plaint is presented, and shall at the same time

deliver the document or a copy thereof to be filed with the plaint." No doubt that

the Appellant has failed to do so.

In the aforesaid circumstances I see no reason to interfere with the

order of the learned District Judge dated 15.11.2000. Therefore I dismiss the

appeal of the Appellant without costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal