==== BLOCKS ==== 

In the Court of Appeal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka C.A (PHC) 180/06 P.H.C. Rathnapura HCRIRA/80/02 M.C.Embilipitiya No.60022

Cibil Henriyata Muththettupola Balawinna Walawwa, Pallebedda.

1st named 1st Party-Respondent-Appellant Vs. Budsingha Mudiyanselage Heen Manike, Horepola, Godakawela. Bimna Mohottalage Dingiri Mudiyanse, Asiri Mawatha, Maddegama, Godakawela.

2nd and 3rd named 1st Party Respondents - Respondents 01. Sinhapura Lekamlage Chandrasena 02. Sinhapura Lekamlage Sisira Kumara 03. Sinhapura Lekamlage Chandra Ranjani Manike, All of Maddegama, Godakawela.

2nd Party - Petitioner - Respondents Officer in Charge, Police Station, Godakawela.

Complainant-Respondent-Respondent

C.A (PHC) 180/06

Before

Counsel

Argued and

Decided on

K.T.Chitrasiri,J.

P.H.C. Rathnapura HCRIRA/80/02

M.C.Embilipitiya No.60022

K. T. Chitrasiri,J. &

Malinie Gunaratne,J.

3rd named 1 st party - respondent- appellant

is absent and unrepresented

Vishwa de Livera Tennakoon for the 2nd party

Petitioner-Respondent.

Shantha Karunadhara for the 2nd named 1 st party Respondent

13/11/2014.

The Registrar of this Court has sent several notices under registered

cover to the appellant directing him to be present in this Court. The last

notice that had been sent by the Registrar to the appellant is dated

!

·1 -I

I

I

08/08/2014 by which he was directed to be present in this Court today. The

said notice has been sent to the address given in the petition of appeal under

registered cover. Despite all those notices been sent to the appellant, she

has failed to come to this Court. The Registrar also has sent a notice to the

Registered Attorney of the Appellant and the said notice had been returned

with the endorsement that the premises given in the address is closed.

Therefore, this appeal is taken up for argument in the absence of the

appellant.

At this Stage, learned Counsel for the 2nd party petitioner-

respondents submits that in the written submissions filed in the High Court

by the petitioners who are the 2nd party respondents, they have taken up the

position that the learned Magistrate has no jurisdiction to entertain this case

since the subject matter before Court is to claim "Ande" rights of a paddy

filed. The authority namely Mansoor And Another Vs. 0.1. C. Awisawella

Police And Another (1991) 2SLR 75 upon which the said position had been

taken up is also been referred to in the written submission filed on behalf of

the respondent (Vide at page F23 in the appeal brief).

! i -\ 'I !

i !1I

The learned Counsel for the 1 st party respondents also submits that

this is a dispute with regard to the possession of a paddy filed. Therefore, it

is clear that the issue in this appeal is coming under the purview of the

Agrarian Development Act No.46 of 2000. The High Court Judge has not

addressed his mind to this question of law even though it had been

specifically taken up in the submissions filed on behalf of the 2nd party

petitioner-respondents.

In the case of Mansoor And Another Vs. 0.1. C. Awisawella

Police And Another (Supra) S.N.Silva, J. (as then was) has held thus:

"Where a statute creates a right and in plain language, gives a specific

remedy or appoints a specific tribunal for its enforcement, a party

seeking to enforce the right must resort to that tribunal and not to

other."

Admittedly, the dispute in this case comes under the purview of the

Agrarian Development Act No.46 of2000. Therefore the learned Magistrate

should have referred the parties to the proper forum immediately after filing

;I :1 I I

~i

the infonnation in Court. He has failed to do so. Accordingly, the orders

made by the learned Judges in the Court below are made null and void

ab initio.

F or the aforesaid reasons this appeal is dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M.Malinie Guneratne,J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

WC/-