==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA 13/2006

HC Kandy 1864/99

Before : A. W .A. Salam, J &

Sunil Rajapaksha, J

Dunuthilaka Mudiyanselage

Kudabanda.

Accused -appellant

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Respondent.

Counsel : Dr. Jayathissa de Costa PC for accused-appellant and

Rohantha Abeysooriya DSG for the respondent.

Argued on : 03.02.2014

Decided on : 05.02.2014

A. W .A. Salam, J

The accused-appellant has preferred the present appeal against the

judgment and sentence imposed against him by the learned High

Court Judge who found him guilty of double murder as per charges

preferred against him by indictment dated 06.01.1999. The charges

preferred against the accused-appellant were that on 16.04.1989, he

1

I

caused the·· death of Dissanayake Mudiyanselage Kudabanda

Dissanayake and Dissanayake Mudiyanselage Dushamanta Renuka

Bandara Dissanayake. The learned High Court Judge after trial

wi thou t a jury found that the charges had been proved and proceeded

to convict the accused-appellant on both counts and sentenced him to

death. When the matter of the appeal against the conviction was taken

up for hearing, the learned President's Counsel adverted us to the

several glaring misdirections in the judgment. He placed in the

forefront of his case, the inordinate delays in making the complaint to

the police against the accused-appellant as a ground that vitiates the

conviction.

Admittedly, the incident had taken place on 16.04.1989 at the height

of the insurgent activities said to have been initiated by the Janatha

Vimukthi Peramuna. As far as case of the prosecution is concerned the

complaint against the accused-appellant has been made alleging his

involment as the principal offender along with certain other unknown

people, almost three years after the incident. The explanation given by

the main witnesses for the prosecution as to the delay is that the fear

psychosis that prevailed during the relevant period p'revented the main

prosecution witnesses from mentioning the name of the accused

appellant to the authorities concerned. They claimed that the family

members were unable to make a complaint against the accused-

appellant as they feared serious adverse consequences if a complaint

had been promptly made against him. However favourable the

situation that prevailed in the country at that time for not making a

complaint may be, it is to be noted that no mention of the involvement

of the accused-appellant has ever been made by the so called eye

witnesses to any authority including the Magistrate who had

conducted the inquest proceedings.

It is common knowledge that the fear psychosis which prevailed in the

country came to an end with the death of the then so called leader of

the JVP somewhere in November 1989. In the circumstance, the

2

witnesses could have made their complaints against the accused-

appellant within a reasonable period of time from November 1989. Yet,

they had waited until June 1992 to make a complaint implicating the

accused with the commission of the offences. This delay on the part of

the eye witnesses cannot be accepted as a satisfactory explanation.

In the case of Jayawardane and Others vs. the State 2000 SLR 192, it

was held that a conviction is unsafe if a valid explanation is not given

for the delay in making the complaint. The offence committed by the

accused in the case of Jayawardane Vs. State was one punishable

under 380 of the Penal Code and committed during the period when

there was trouble prevailing in the country. In that case the incident

had taken place on 28.12.1989 and the first complaint had been made

in 1995. The learned Judge of the Court of Appeal in the case of

Jayawardane held that as the condition in the country had improved,

it was possible for any citizen to lodge a complaint at any police station

after 1991. In the circumstancesn, the court held that it would be

dangerous to act on the evidence implicating the accused with the

belated complaint without any satisfactory explanation.

The circumstances relating to the delay in making tlie complaint in the

case of Jayawardane vs. State apply to the present case as well. As

such we hold that the delay in making the complaint against the

accused in this case also has not been properly explained and

therefore the learned High Court Judge could not have convicted the

accused for murder. The complaint has not been made immediate after

the cessation of the fear psychosis that existed in the country.

Admittedly the accused-appellant had attended the funeral of the

deceased the very next day and even made his presence at the 7th day

almsgiving. The conduct of the accused-appellant in attending the

funeral and participating at the almsgiving is inconsistent with his

guilt and the learned High Court judge has failed to give any

3

I

consideration to that evidence.

Further the dock statef'trent made by the accused-appellant has

received no attention by the learned High Court judge when he came to

the conclusion that the charges against him have been proved beyond

reasonable doubt. In the dock statement the accused-appellant has

pleaded the defence of ali by to which he is entitled to claim with due

consideration of it must be given as piece of evidence subject to the

normal infirmities that are applicable to a dock statement.

The infirmities in the judgment of the learned High Court Judge are so

significant that the accused could not have been found guilty of the

offence, if the leaned High Court Judge gad properly addressed his

mind to the legal principles regarding the quntum of proof in a

criminal case.

Inthisapl a direction to send the case back for retrial also will not serve

apy purpose as the accused cannot be found guilty even at a retrial in

the mids of the infirmities referred to in this judgment. Therefore, we

are of the view that the accused is entitled to be acquitted on all the

charges. Hence we allow the appeal and acquit the atcused.

JUDGE OF THE CORUT OF APPEAL.

Sunil Rajapaksha, J.

JUDGE OF THE CORUT OF APPEAL.

NRj-

4

I

II

I

r