==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 1279/2000 (F)

D.C. Monaragala No. 1517 / L

Rajapaksa Watte Vidanalage Baba Nona, "Gangasiri", Ethundambuwawa, Arawakumbura.

Vs.

H. M. Siriwardana, Mutthettuyaya, Kindagalla, Nagala, Bibila.

And Now Between

H. M. Siriwardana, Mutthettuyaya, Kindagalla, Nagala, Bibila.

Plaintiff

Defendant

Defendant-Appellant

Vs

Rajapaksa Watte Vidanalage Baba Nona, "Gangasiri", Ethundambuwawa, Arawakumbura.

Plaintiff -Respondent

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

UPAL Y ABEYRA THNE, J.

Defendant Appellant - Absent and

Unrepresented

Prasanna Manatunge for the Plaintiff

Respondent

16.01.2014

31.03.2014

The Plaintiff Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the Respondent)

instituted an action against the Defendant Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the

Appellant) in the District Court of Monaragala seeking for a declaration of title to

the land described in the schedule to the plaint. The Appellant filed an answer

denying the averments contained in the plaint and praying for a dismissal of the

Respondent's action. The case proceeded to trial upon 16 issues. After trial, the

learned Additional District Judge has delivered a judgement in favour of the

Respondent. Being aggrieved by the said judgment dated 29.11.2000 the Appellant

has preferred the present appeal to this court.

The Appellant has set out several grounds of appeal. It seems from the

said grounds of appeal that the Appellant's main grievance was that the learned

Additional District Judge has failed to evaluate the evidence of the case.

! t f i t I

! I ! It ,

i ; I

"

3

I have examined the judgment of the learned Additional District Judge

and the evidence of the case. The Respondent has produced his title deeds marked

P 1 and P 2 in order to prove his title. The Appellant has not challenged the said

title deeds. When I consider the said evidence I am of the view that the Appellant

has failed to prove his case on a balance of probability. Hence I see no reason to

interfere with the said judgement of the learned Additional District Judge dated

29.11.2000. Therefore I dismiss the appeal of the Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

! ! ! ! I