==== BLOCKS ==== 

••

1 I I

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI

LANKA

C.A.Revision No.1138/2006

D.C.Gampaha No.38914/P

D.A.S.Dedigamuwa of No. 60/6, Pahala

Imbulgoda, Imbulgoda

Plaintiff

Vs

G.A.G. Wijeratne

And 6 others

Defendants

Nalini Devanarayana

No. 72, D.S.Senanayake Street,

Ampara

Petitioner

Vs

D.A.S. Dedigamuwa

60/6 Pahala Imbulgoda.

Imbulgoda

Plaintiff Respondent

G.A.G. Wijeratne 95/1 Kandy

Kandy Road, Imbulgoda and

It Ii

\

~

t

2

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON:

DECIDEDON:

6 others

Defendant Respondents

Nalini Devanarayana

72 D.S.Senanayake Street, Ampara

Petitioner-Petitioner

Vs

D.A.S.Dedigamuwa

60/6 Pahala Imbulgoda,lmbulgoda

Plaintiff-Respondent-Respondentt

G.A.G.Wijeratne and 7 others

Defendant-Respondent-Respondents

Deepali Wijesundera J.,

M.M.A.Gaffoor, J,

Ms. Saumya Amarasekera for the Petitioner-Petitioner

S.F.A.Cooray and N.Nayanakantha for the 2nd Defendant

Respondent

11.03.2015

14.08.2015

I, III

tlI

Il IIt

tIIIi

fI

, .

3

M.M.A.Gaffoor J,

This is an application inviting the Court , in exercising its power of

Revision to set aside the interlocutory and final decree entered in this case on

5.10.2001 in the District Court of Gampaha in case No.38914/P and to allow the

Petitioner to enter the said case.

The Plaintiff Respondent Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the

"Plaintiff') filed the partition action by her Plaint dated 04.09.1995 to partition

the land called "Kosgahalanda". The case was concluded without a contest on

31.09.2001 and thereafter judgment was entered on 05.10.2001 and the

Interlocutory Decree on 12.06.2006 and the final decree for partition was

entered on 23.03.2003.

The petitioner alleges that this partition action was filed in the District

Court of Gampaha and the Petitioner and her family are living in Ampara. Due

to the collusive action of the Plaintiff and the 2nd Defendant, the Petitioner was

prevented from having notice of this action and she came to know about this

action only in the latter part of 2005 by which time the final decree had already

been entered. Upon becoming aware of this action the Petitioner sought to

intervene in this action in 2005 but this application was disallowed by Court by

its order dated 24.01.2006. Within 6 months from the date of the order the

Petitioner, has filed this application and prayed inter alia that;

a) the Petitioner be made a party to this action for partition;

I

1I I

\ Il

.. . '

4

(b) set aside all orders entered in this action for partition;

c) enter decree allotting 10 perches from the subject matter on

Deed marked "X"

The learned District Judge refused the application of the Petitioner stating

that as the final stage of the action has been reached and the Petitioner has

not intervened at the time the Notice was exhibited.

Being aggrieved by the said Judgment of the District Court the Petitioner

has filed this Revision Application and sought the following reliefs:

i) To set aside the order of 24.01.2006

ii) For a declaration that the Petitioner is entitled to an extent of 10

perches from the subject matter of this action and accordingly. alter

and amend the Interlocutory Decree and judgment dated

05.10.2001;

iii) For a direction to issue fresh commission to allocate 10 perches

from Lot 3 in Plan No.1665/P dated 29.08.2002 made by A.C.P.

Gunasena L.S (Lot 3 was allotted to the 2nd Defendant)

iv) Alter and amend the final decree with regard to lot 3 in Plan

No.1165/P by allocating 10 perches to the Petitioner or in the

alternative to set aside the judgment dated 5.10.2001;

v) To set aside and cancel all proceedings after the stage where

Section 12 Declaration marked P3 was filed and allow the Petitioner

to file her Statement of Claim and to hear the case de novo;

(I

tI

\

I ' ..

5

Counsel for the Petitioner submitted that the Revisionary powers of

the Court is invoked to set aside the interlocutory and final decree

entered in this case since serious irregularities and miscarriage of justice

that had taken place during the course of the trial in this case.

i) The action of the Plaintiff, has deprived the Petitioner from

participating at the trial in violation of the Partition Act;

ii) There was no proper investigation of title and the land that

was partitioned was larger than the land that is described

and to be partitioned in the plaint;

Counsel for the Respondent argued that the Petitioner is not entitled to

any remedy under revisionary jurisdiction and her remedy was to claim

damages in a separate action to be filed. The Petitioner is guilty of laches, that

even after filing the application where the Petitioner has deliberately omitted to

bring the necessary parties to her application and after the arguments have

commenced in a Revision Application no party should be allowed to cure any

defect taken up by way of a preliminary objection. In an application for revision

, when necessary parties are not made parties initially, such error cannot be

cured by a later application to add the said necessary parties after the

Respondent has taken objections and therefore this application should be

dismissed with costs.

Section 4(l)(c) of the Partition Law clearly states that names and

addresses of all persons who are entitled to or claiming to be entitled to any

right should be included in the Plaint.

f

f f I !

I

1 I!" I

(

r

I

~

· . 6

Section 5 of the Partition law makes it mandatory for the Plaintiff to

include in the Plaint those who are in actual possession of the corpus or

claiming to have rights in the corpus.

In the case of Somawathie vs Madawala and others (1983) 2 SLR 15 at 30

- Soza J., observed that any prudent Plaintiff should have caused a search to be

made in the Land Registry before filing action.

that:

Justice Udalagama in Umma vs Zubair & another - 2002 (3) SLR 170 held

i) Section 48(4) could not bar a court from holding that in the event

summons had not been even issued from coming to a finding that

such non-issue was improper or that the court had no jurisdiction

to proceed. Section 48(4) could not suppress the rights of parties

to claim their due rights in partition actions which are decrees in

rem;

ii) There has also been blatant disregard to section 14(1) and

deliberate non-compliance with section 12, even the registering of

the lis pendens is not in the correct folio;

iii) Notwithstanding section 48, the District Court is not precluded

from giving effect to an unlawfully obtained interlocutory decree

causing a grave miscarriage of justice;

Further Justice Udalagama in the above judgment has quoted Soza

Judge's findings in Somawathie vs Madawala (Supra) that lithe immunity given

to a partition decree from being assailed on the ground of omissions and defects

or procedure as now broadly defined and failure to make persons concerned

I

{

I I[ I ( II i I

f I

f

f i ! f II

f

7

parties to the action should not be interpreted as a license to /Iout the provisions

0/ the partition law. This court will not hesitate to use revisionary powers and

give relie/ where a miscarriage 0/ justice has occurred resulting from non-

conformity with the specific provisions 0/ the Partition Act."

In this case it is clear that Section 12 of the Partition law has been violated.

It states that l

''After a partition action is registered as a lispendens under the

Registration 0/ Documents Ordinance and after the return 0/ the

triplicate referred to in Section 11, the Plaintiff in the action shall file or

caused to be filed in court a declaration under the hand 0/ an Attorney at

Law certifying that all such entries in the register maintained under that

Ordinance as relate to the land constituting the subject matter 0/ the

action have been personally inspected by that Attorney at Law after the

registration 0/ the action as a lispendens, and containing a statement 0/

the names 0/ every person whom the Plaintiff is required by Section 5 to

include in the plaint as a party to the action and also, i/ an address 0/ that

person is registered in the aforesaid register, that address".

Section 12(3) states that where the Plaintiff fails to follow the procedure

set out in Section 12(2) the court may dismiss the action.

In this case the declaration of the Plaintiffs Attorney as required by the

Partition Act has specifically stated that he has personally examined the extracts

in the land Registry and that there are no other parties than the Plaintiff and

the Defendant who are entitled to receive notice under the Partition Act, which

is not correct and must be rejected.

! I ,

f I ,

~ ! t I l I

8

Further the 2nd Defendant has also violated Sections 19(1)©, 20(1)(b)

29(2)(b) of the Partition Law.

Counsel pointed out that there is no proper investigation of title and the

land that was to be partitioned was larger than the land sought to be

partitioned in the Plaint.

The land that was pointed out to the Surveyor at the Preliminary Survey

and depicted in Plan No. 897/P was a land in extent Al.Rl.P06(the increase in

extent is Rl.P35.21). The District Court is also in error for not adequately

investigating the identity of land.

In Somawathie vs Madawala (Supra) case the Supreme Court came to a

finding that where there had been no proper compliance with the imperative

provisions of the partition law the Court of Appeal is vested with the power by

way of Revision to intervene in order to prevent a miscarriage of justice.

In Induruwe Dhammananda vs Piyatissag and another - 2001 (3) SLR 365

Udalagama J held : It It is settled law the Revisionary powers 0/ the Court 0/

Appeal is unaffected even under partition law, the provisions 0/ Section 48

notwithstanding - the power 0/ revision and restitutio in integrum 0/ the Court

0/ Appeal have survived legislature that has been enacted uptodate".

In Gnanapandithen & another vs 8alanayagam & another - 1998 - (1) SLR

391 it was held"

I II

f t I I

\

\ f t f ! I l

\ I

~ ! !

! I I I

a) That was a total want of investigation of title. The circumstances were I

strongly indicative of a collusive action. In the result, there was a I ,

i miscarriage of justice in the case, and the appellants were entitled to a I

I ;

\

..

9

revision of the judgment of the District Court notwithstanding delay in

seeking relief;

b) The question whether delay is fatal to an application in revision

depends on the facts and circumstances of the case. Having regard to

the very special and exceptional circumstances of the case the

appellants were entitled to the exercise of the revisionary powers of

the Court of Appeal."

(Civil Law Journal- Appeal Revision - page 208 & 209)

If summons is not served on a claimant it follows that he is deprived of an

opportunity to establish his rights to the corpus. It is the duty of the Court to

investigate the title of the parties. If a claimant is not added as a party, his title

to the corpus cannot be established before court.

For the reasons stated above, I would hold that the interlocutory decree

already entered should be set aside. This case is sent back to the District Court

to issue summons on the Petitioner, to add him as a party and to file his

statement of claim and the trial to proceed de novo.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Wijesundera J.,

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

Ii 1 I

f I I I

f ! !

t

\

t I t ! t , ! ,

) f

\

I

\ I \

\