==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A. 367/1998 (F) D.C. Matugama 1668/L

M. Don Nandasiri of Boralugoda, Matugama

PLAINTIFF

Vs.

1. A. A. Amaradasa of Neluhena, Meegahathenna. (Deceased)

lA. U. Don Gunawathie Gunasinghe of Meegahathenna, Neluhena,

lB. C. P. Arumapperuma Arachchi of Meegahathenna, Neluhena,

DEFENDANTS

AND NOW

1 A. U. Don Gunawathie Gunasinghe of Meegahathenna, Neluhena,

IB. C. P. Arumapperuma Arachchi of Meegahathenna, Neluhena,

DEFENDANTS-APPELLANTS

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERA TNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J.

Vs.

M. Don Nandasiri of Boralugoda, Matugama

PLAINTIFF -RESPONDNET

R. Farook P.C., R. Deshapriya with H. Kularatne For lA & IB Defendants-Appellants

S. Vithana with N. Mendis for the Plaintiff-Respondent

30.03.2012

29.08.2012

2

This was an action for a declaration of title to a land called lot 4

in "Neluwahena Kattiya" as described in the schedule to the plaint in extent

of about 18.5 perches and eviction/damages against the Defendant. Action

filed in 1992 and at the time trial was taken up in the District Court the

I t

\,

( ,

\

3

original Defendant \Vas dead. In the answer Defendant has also pleaded for a

dismissal of the suit and declaration that the Defendant is the owner and for

peaceful possession and damages as in the answer against the Plaintiff-

Respondent. Surveyor Ariyaratne's plan No. 432 shows the land in dispute

as 'A' in lot 4 marked 'X' and his report Xl. Parties have admitted the

corpus and proceeded to trial on 11 issues. Defendant-Appellant issue Nos. 7

- llrefer to prescriptive rights along with it's plantation improvements, and

damages at the rate of Rs. 500/- per annum as from 18.5.1992. Defendant

also claim Rs. 1290/- an amount deposited in court by the Electricity Board

after having cut some trees.

Plaintiff-Respondent relies on paper title by deed No. 13123 of

12.8.1983 marked P2 and the Defendant-Appellant seems to contest on the

basis of prescriptive title. The learned President's Counsel inter alia

submitted to this court as follows:

(a) having admitted the corpus the toilet and the well situated within the corpus had

been continuously used by the Defendant.

(b) Deed of transfer P2 relied upon by the Plaintiff is an incomplete document and

emphasized same referring to the attestation clause.

(c) Defendant enjoys the plantation

(d) Complaint P3 where it is stated that Plaintiff does not always come to the land in

dispute.

(e) Refer to the report X 1 of Surveyor to emphasis that Defendant is in occupation of

the entire land.

ItiI!IIlI

4

(f) V3 - compensation due to be paid to Defendant.

(g) Refer to the evidence at pgs. 193/194 of the record to prove possession. Evidence

of an independent witnesses.

In a case of this nature once the Plaintiff-Respondent proves title by

way of a transfer deed and seek to establish paper title, the burden is on the

Defendant to establish superior title by prescriptive rights. i.e to satisfy the

requirements of Section 3 of the Prescription Ordinance. I observe that with

deed P2 relied upon by Plaintiff-Respondent there is a presumption in law as

regards possession of Plaintiff-Respondent. As such it would be important

and relevant to consider the available material as to whether 'ouster',

starting point of adverse possession and the necessary ingredients of Section

3 are established.

The court commission as plan 'X' has superimposed plan No.

5647 of9.4.1954 prepared by one surveyor Collette which was prepared for

D.C. Kalutara Case 28080. It is the position of the Plaintiff-Respondent that

the learned District Judge has not erred in his judgment and learned Counsel

for Plaintiff-Respondent argued on the following points.

(1) Evidence of witness Julius Arumapperuma. Arachchi (Defendant's brother) called

by the Defendant-Appellant show that a house was built by the Defendant on lot 3

(not lot 4 - disputed lot) in the early 1970. His evidence does not establish

forcible occupation by Defendant on lot 4. In fact at Folios 212/213 of the record

l

t,

IiII!

ffi!

t

5

this witness confirm that lot 4 not possessed. His father never wrote lot 4 in

favour of any one- No overt act established by witness.

(2) Contradictions of witness Mithrapala called by Defendant (pg. 223)

(3) Above witness states he never saw Defendant using the toilet referred to above.

Unable to state as to who enjoyed the crops.

(4) Clear date of commencement of adverse possession not borne out from evidence.

(5) No other witness established prescriptive rights or at least long possession by

Defendant - party inclusive of substituted Defendant (wife of Appellant).

When this court consider the entirety of the evidence placed before

the Original Court, it is apparent that the Defendant-Appellant had not been

able to prove superior title to defeat paper title established by the Plaintiff-

Respondent. Isolated items of evidence picked from hear and there cannot

prove the required adverse posseSSIon III terms of Section 3 of the

Prescription Ordinance. I am not convinced of the Appellant's case and as

such the learned trial Judge's conclusions should not be unnecessarily

disturbed.

Mere possession is no prescriptive possession in law.

In Sirajudeen and others Vs. Abbas 1994 (2) SLR Pg. 365 ...

Where the evidence of possession lacked consistency, the fact of occupation alone

or the payment of Municipal rates by itself is insufficient to establish prescriptive

possessIOn.

Where a party invokes the provisions of section 3 of the Prescription Ordinance in

order to defeat the ownership of an adverse claimant to immovable property, the

6

burden of proof rests squarely and fairly on him to establish a starting point for

his or her acquisition of prescriptive rights.

A facile story of walking into abandoned premises after the Japanese air raid

constitutes material far too slender to found a claim based on prescriptive title.

As regards the mode of proof of prescriptive possession, mere general statements

of witnesses that the plaintiff possessed the land in dispute for a number of years

exceeding the prescriptive period are not evidence of the uninterrupted and

adverse possession necessary to support a title by prescription. It is necessary that

the witnesses should speak to specific facts and the question of possession has to

be decided thereupon by Court.

One of the essential elements of the plea of prescriptive title as provided for in

section 3 of the Prescription Ordinance is proof of possession by a title adverse to

or independent of that of the claimant or plaintiff. The occupation of the premises

must be of such character as is incompatible with the title ofthe owner.

Juliana Hamine Vs. Don Thomas 59 NLR 346 ...

Held: that when a witness giving evidence of prescriptive possession states "I possessed"

or "we possessed", the Court should insist on those words being explained and

exemplified.

I have posed the question about the starting point of

prescriptive possession. Mere reference to particular year without supporting

evidence is not an answer.

7

In Chelliah Vs. Wijayanathan 54 NLR 337 at Pg. 342 ...

It was held: when a party invokes of provisions of Section 3 of the Prescription

Ordinance to defeat the ownership of an adverse claimant to immovable property the

burden of proof rests squarely and fairly on him to establish a starting point for his or her

acquisition of prescriptive of rights.

There was an argument advance by the Appellant to criticize

and attack the title deed. P2, and P7 in an attempt to refer to date of

registration and the following authorities provide the answers to such an

attempt to meet that argument advanced by the Appellant

In Sangarakkitha Thero Vs. Buddarakkitha Thero 53 NLR Pg. 457 ...

A deed which on its face appears to be in order is presumed to have been duly executed.

The mere framing of an issue as to the due execution of the deed followed in due course

by a perfunctory question or two on the general matters of execution, without specifying

in detail the omissions or illegalities which are relied upon, is insufficient to rebut that

presumption.

In Thiyagarasa Vs. Arunodayam 1987 (2) SLR Pg. 184 ...

It was held: that the essential elements of due execution of a deed as set out in section 2

ofthe prevention of Frauds Ordinance are:

(i) The deed must be signed by the party making it.

(ii) It must be signed in the presence of a licensed notary public and two

or more witnesses.

(iii)The notary public and witness must be present at the same time.

(iv)The execution of deed must be duly attested by the notary and the witnesses.

i

!f

In Cooray V s. Samy and Others 2004 BLR Pg. 28 ...

It was held:

8

(a) Section 2 of the Prevention of Frauds Ordinance lays down the formalities

required to effect a valid transfer of land. In terms of this section no sale or

purchase of land will be of force or avail in law unless the following requirements

are satisfied:

(1) The instrument must be in writing;

(2) It must be signed either by the party making it or by some person lawfully

authorized by such party.

(3) It must be signed in the presence of the licensed Notary Public and two or more

witnesses.

(4) The Notary Public and two witnesses must be present at the same time.

(5) The execution of the instrument must be duly attested by such Notary Public and

witnesses;

The Notaries Ordinance makes it obligatory on the Notary to append a formal

attestation to the deed. Thus in terms of the Provision of Section 2 of the

Prevention of Fraud Ordinance, the transfer of land or other immovable property

could be made only by means of a notarial conveyance.

(d) When a deed is an absolute conveyance devoid of precedent conditions,

dominium would pass to the transferee immediately on the execution ofthe deed.

In Jayawardena Vs. Amerasekara 15 NLR 280 .. , Lasecellas CJ. held:

that, on the execution of a notarial conveyance the sale is complete and the mere fact that

the whole of consideration has not been paid cannot, in the absence of fraud or

misrepresentation, afford ground for the rescission of the sale and the cancellation of the

conveyance.

• 9

In Mohamedu Vs. Hllssim 16 NLR 368 .. Pereira J. held that:

Where a person obtains a conveyance of property without fraud but afterward

fraudulently refuses to pay the consideration stipulated for, the grantor is not entitled to

claim a cancellation of the conveyance but his remedy is an action for the recovery of the

consideration.

In all the above circumstances I see no basis to disturb the

findings of the learned District Judge. I am not convinced of all the

arguments put forward by the learned President's Counsel for the Appellant

since the ingredients required by Section 3 of the Prescription Ordinance are

not proved. There is an absence of overwhelming evidence required to prove

prescription that the Defendant not only occupied but also took the pruduce

to the exclusion of the Plaintiff. Mere assertions could be found to that effect

which is not sufficient in law. Therefore I affirm the judgment of the learned

District Judge and dismiss this appeal without costs.

Appeal dismissed.