==== BLOCKS ==== 

\

I j 1 J !

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 726 I 97 F

D.C. Nuwaraelliya No. 66 I DE

S. Somapala,

Bogahawatta Bazaar,

Pathana.

Plaintiff

Vs.

1. S. K. Punchinona,

2. Wasantha Liyanage,

3. P. Chaminda,

All of Bogahawatta Bazaar,

Pathana.

4. Officer in Charge,

Police Station, Pathana.

Defendants

And Now Between

1. S. K. Punchinona,

2. Wasantha Liyanage,

3. P. Chaminda,

All of Bogahawatta Bazaar,

Pathana.

Defendant-Appellants

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

Vs

S. Somapala,

Bogahawatta Bazaar,

Pathana.

Plaintiff-Respondent

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

Sunil Abeyrathne for the Defendant Appellants

P. Peramunagama for the Plaintiff Respondent

06.07.2012

14.02.2013

The Plaintiff Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the Respondent)

instituted the said action against the Defendant Appellants (hereinafter referred to

as the Appellants) seeking a judgment that he was entitled to the right of

possession of the land described in the schedule to the plaint. The Appellants filed

answer denying the averments in the plaint and prayed for a dismissal of the

Respondent's action. The Appellants averred that the Respondent came in to

possession with leave and licence of the Appellants. The case proceeded to trial on

08 issues. After trial the learned Additional District Judge delivered judgment in

favour of the Respondent. Being aggrieved by the said judgement dated

12.08.1997 the Appellants have preferred the present appeal to this court.

3

Both parties have admitted that the subject matter was a state land. It

was common ground that the Respondent was in possession of the land in dispute

and he was carrying on a business called "S.K. Te Pan Salawa" in the said

premises.

Although the Appellants had claimed title to the land in dispute, in

their evidence they have admitted that they did not have a title deed or a land

permit to establish their ownership. At the trial the Appellants have produced a

land permit issued under Section 19 ( 4) of the Land Development Ordinance

marked V 1. According to the said permit, Lot No. 18 depicted in Plan No P.P. Nu.

804 situated at Bogahawtta village have been granted to the Appellants. The

Respondent has instituted this action in respect of Lot No. 13 situated at

Bogahawtta bazaar. Hence the said permit V 1 has no relevance to the land

described in the schedule to the plaint.

On the other hand although the Appellants have averred that the

Respondent came in to possession with leave and licence they have failed to prove

that the Respondent came in to possession of the said land with leave and licence

of the Appellants.

Therefore in the light of the said evidence I am of the view that the

learned District Judge has come to a right conclusion. Hence I see no reason to

interfere with the said judgement of the learned District Judge dated 12.08.1997.

Therefore I dismiss the appeal of the Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal