==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA N0.287/2009 HC Welikada No.788/2006 HC Colombo No. 374/2001

Daraniyagalage Samaranayake Peris Sisira Jayawardane No: 29/16, Bodiyawatta, Sri Saranankara Road, Kalubowila.

Appellant Vs. The Attorney General Attorney General’s Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

C.A. N0.287/2009

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED AND

DECIDED ON

SISIRA DE ABREW, J.

H.C. Welikada No.788/2006

H.C. Colombo No. 374/2001

SISIRA DE ABREW, J. &

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J.

1

Amila Palliyage for the accused-appellant.

Shanil Kularatne SSC for the respondent.

12th February, 2013.

** * * * * *

The accused-appellant produced by the Prison Authorities is

present in Court.

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted for being in

possession of 4.4 grams of heroin. The learned High Court Judge

imposed life imprisonment on the accused-appellant. Being aggrieved

by the said conviction and the sentence, the accused-appellant has

2

appealed to this Court. The facts of this case as stated by the

prosecution witnesses may be summarized as follows:-

I.P. Mr. Dayananda and S.I. Mr. Bogamuwa on an

information received by their informants proceeded to a place called

Bodiyawatta. They searched the accused-appellant and found a parcel

of heroin hidden in the under garment of the accused-appellant.

Thereafter he was taken into custody.

The accused-appellant too gave evidence under oath in this

case. The accused-appellant who is a painter by profession admitted in

his evidence, that he was a heroin addict. He further admitted that on

the day of the incident he purchased two packets of heroin and he

consumed one packet. According to him, he put the other packet inside

a small pocket in his under garment which he was not wearing. He put

""" ¥this under garment in a polythene bag which he was carrying his

/I.-

painting tools. His position is that he was arrested, when he was

smoking heroin. Position of the police officers was that the accused-

appellant was wearing an under garment and inside the said under

garment a parcel of heroin was found. The prosecution produced the

said under garment as P7. When the accused was giving evidence

very strangely the packet of heroin spoken by him was found inside

the said under garment marked as P7. This packet of heroin was

3

produced as V, 1. Thus the accused-appellant admitted in his evidence

that the packet of heroin he purchased in the morning of this date was

found inside his under garment. We note that this under garment has

not been sent to the Government Analyst. This under garment was in

the custody of the police and was later produced at the trial. The

position taken up by the accused-appellant in his evidence is

corroborated by finding the packet of heroin marked as V, 1. Thus it

appears that the position taken up by the accused-appellant is true. If

the position taken up by the accused-appellant in his evidence is true,

the accused should be acquitted from the charge with which he was

convicted. Learned trial Judge has failed to consider this aspect. As I

pointed out earlier the position taken up by the accused-appellant is

true. Therefore the accused-appellant is entitled to be acquitted on the

charge. We therefore set aside the conviction and the sentence. Since

the accused-appellant had admitted that he was having a packet of

heroin in his under garment which he was not wearing at that time, he

can be found guilty for being in possession of heroin. (a lessor amount)

We are unable to decide at this stage the weight of the said pocket of

heroin. According to the existing law if heroin below one gram is found

in the possession of a person he could be convicted and can be

sentenced to a period not less than 3 years and not exceeding 7 years.

Both Counsel agree that the accused-appellant could be convicted for

being in possession of less than one gram of heroin.

4

Considering all these matters, we convict the accused-

appellant for being in possession of heroin which is less than one gram.

We set aside the term of life imprisonment imposed by the learned trial

Judge. We sentence the accused-appellant to a term of 4 years rigorous

imprisonment. We direct the Prison Authorities to implement the

sentence from the date of sentencing by the learned High Court Judge

namely 19.05.2009. The learned High Court Judge is directed to issue a

fresh committal.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Kwk/=