==== BLOCKS ==== 

INT THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

C.A.NO.69/2011

Pattiwilage Vincent Fernando

(Kapu Mahathmaya)

Accused-Appellant

H.C. Negombo No. 512/2005

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED AND

DECIDED ON

Vs.

Hon. The Attorney General

Respondent

SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J (ACTING PICA) &

P.W.D.C.JAYATHILAKA, J.

Dr. Ranjit Fernando for the Accused-

Appellant.

Dileepa Peiris SSC for the Respondent.

23rd January, 2014.

***********

SISIRA J. DE ABREW, J.(ACTING PICA)

1

Accused appellant produced by the Prison Authorities is

present in Court.

i

J I I I I I

2

Heard both Counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused - appellant in this case was convicted for raping

a girl under 16 years of age and was sentenced to a term of 12 years

rigorous imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs. 5000/- carrying a default

sentence of 06 months simple imprisonment and to pay a sum of

Rs.I00,000 / - as compensation to the victim carrying a default sentence

of 01 year rigorous imprisonment on Count No.1.

He was also convicted for the offence of sexual harassment

which is an offence under section 345 of the Penal Code and was

sentenced to a term of 3 years rigorous imprisonment and to pay a fine of

Rs.5000 / - carrying a default sentence of 6 months simple imprisonment.

This was the 2nd Count. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the

sentence he has appealed to this Court. Learned Counsel for the

accused-appellant submits that he does not challenge the conviction. He

submits that the sentence imposed by the learned trial Judge is

excessive and therefore makes an application to reduce the sentence.

Learned High Court Judge directed that both terms of imprisonment on

count No: 1 and 2 should run consecutively. Facts of this case may be

briefly summarized as follows:-

The accused-appellant is a person in-charge of a temple

(Devalaya). On the day of the incident the victim and her brother and

III

!IIti

tt

j

t

I I

1 J

3

another outsider had gone to meet the accused -appellant in order to

perform some religious activities. According to the religious activities that

he was going to perform, a young girl should be kept in the premises of

Devalaya in the night. In the evening the accused-appellant has applied

oil on the private part of the victim girl. The accused-appellant in the

night has performed sexual intercourse on the girl twice. The doctor who

examined the girl two days after the incident, tried to insert the tip of the

index finger into the vagina. But the orifices of the vagina did not

permit such insertion. However, Doctor does not exclude the labial

penetration. The accused - appellant at the time of the incident was 58

year old man. Counsel for the accused-appellant submits that he is

now 70 year old man. At the time of the incident the girl was 10 years

old. Considering all these matters, we make the following order:-

We do not intend to interfere with the 12 years rigorous

imprisonment and 3 years ngorous imprisonment imposed on the

accused-appellant on Count No: 1 and Count No:2 respectively.

However, we direct that both terms of imprisonment (12 years rigorous

imprisonment and 3 years rigorous imprisonment) should run

concurren tly. We direct the Prison Authorities to implement the

sentence from the date of sentencing by the learned trial Judge.

ft

i

f

f

!

I

4 , I

We also do not interfere with the fine and the compensation

ordered by the learned trial Judge. Subject to the above variation of

sentence, appeal of the appellant is dismissed. Learned trial Judge is

directed to issue a fresh committal.

Appeal dismissed.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C.JAYATHILAKA, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Kwk/==

f

rf