==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 675/2010 (Writ)

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

P. Peramunagama for the Petitioner

Ms. Jessie Augustine Bandara

Mahagastotte Division,

Pedro Estate,

Nuwara Eliya.

PETITIONER

Vs.

J.M.C. Priyadharshani

Competent Authority,

Plantation Management Monitoring

Division, Ministry of Plantation

Industries, No. 55/75, Vauxhall Lane,

Colombo 2.

RESPONDENT

Manohara Silva P.c. with Chamith Galhena for the Respondent

ARGUED ON: 04.12.2013

DECIDED ON: 13.05.2014

2

GOONERATNE J.

The Petitioner seeks a Writ of Certiorari to quash the quit notice

marked Xl issued in terms of State lands (Recovery of Possession) Act. It is

pleaded, that the Petitioner was in possession and occupation of the land

described in paragraph 2 of the petition of the Petitioner. It was submitted

that the Petitioner's husband was in the employment of the Land Reform

Commission as a field officer from about 1983 and occupied the bungalow

situated within the land described in paragraph 2 of the petition, and the

Kelani Valley Plantation Limited was incorporated by Act No. 23 of 1987 and

her husband continued to work under the management of Kelani Valley

Plantation until 1993, till he retired. Letter X2 is annexed to the petition

regarding extension of service.

On or about 2.12.1996 quit notice was served bearing the same date

on the Petitioner's husband. He had filed a Writ Application No. 5/98 for a Writ

of Certiorari and a writ was issued by the High Court of the Central Province.

Documents X3 & X4 are submitted without the order of the High Court. This

order has not been produced even with the counter objections of the

I

3

petitioner. The Respondent in their objections have urged that the Petitioner

has suppressed this fact by not annexing the purported order of the High

Court. Petitioner also state that Manager of the Pedro Estate filed action in the

District Court of Nuwara Eliya. In the District Court of Nuwara Eliya on or about

4.1.2000 and withdrew the action (XS). Petitioner's husband had also made an

application to the Sri Lanka State Plantation Corporation for a land for Housing

and the Corporation considered his application. (Xs pg. 12, 14 & 15). Since the

demise of Petitioner's husband, the Petitioner had made representations to

obtain the land and the Land Reform Commission is making arrangements to

sell a piece of land (vide paragraph 8 and the correspondence marked therein).

The Petitioner complaint connecting the quit notice had been

incorporated in detail in paragraphs 9, 10 & 11 of the petition and for better

clarity of the Petitioner's case, the said paragraphs are incorporated in this

judgment.

1. The Petitioner states that the Respondent above named by letter dated

13.05.2010 written with instruction of the superintendent of Pedro Estate

Mahgastotte Division addressed to the Petitioner's deceased husband

Batuwatta Brahmanage Bandara informed of the alleged wrongful

occupation for which the Petitioner replied by letter dated 22.05.2010 sent

through her Attorney-at-Law, but the Respondent without any inquiry has

I

4

issued the said Quit Notice marked Xl perhaps acting in collusion with the

Superintendent of Pedro Estate Mahagastotte Division under section 3 of

the State Land (Recovery of Possession) Act No. 7 of 1979 as amended

requiring the Petitioner to vacate the said portion of land and deliver

vacant possession of the said portion of land to Mr. Deenadayalu

Ramakrishna the Deputy General Manager of Pedro Estate Nuwara Eliya on

or before 15.10.2010 on the ground that the Petitioner is in unauthorized

occupation of the land described in the said {(Quit Notice" marked Xl and

annexed hereto.

2. The petitioner states that the Petitioner is in lawful possession and

occupation of the land and premises set out in paragraph 2 above inclusive

of the land set out in the schedule to the Quit Notice pending sale of the

said property to the Petitioner by the Land Reform Commission.

3. The Petitioner states that the said land set out in the said Quit Notice

marked Xl being part of the land to be sold by the Land Reform

Commission to the Petitioner as set out above is now cannot be treated as

a {(State Land" and/or Respondent is not the {(Competent Authority" within

the meaning of the State Land (Recovery of Possession) Act No.7 of 1979

as amended and hence the Quit Notice marked Xl is bad in law.

The Respondents have pleaded that the necessary parties are not

added and as such the Petitioner's application is misconceived for the

following reasons:

(a) Subject matter of the application had been vested in the Sri Lanka State Plantations

Corporation by the Land Reform Commission as per Section 27 A(l) of the Land Reform

I

5

Law (Rl). Thereafter the land in question had been leased to Kelani Valley Plantation

PLC (R2).

(b) The Land Reform Commission cannot transfer the land in dispute to the Petitioner,

without the Minister concerned revoking the vesting order in terms of Section 27 A(4) of

the Land Reform Law.

(c) The vesting has not been revoked and the land remains the land vested in the Sri Lanka

State Plantation Corporation.

The Respondent is the Competent Authority of land vested in the Sri Lanka

State Plantations Corporation (R3). Respondent denies the legality of the steps

taken by the Land Reform Commission, to alienate the subject matter of land

vested in the State Plantations Corporation, to the Petitioner. Petitioner's

husband had no valid licence to occupy the land in question. As such Petitioner's

possession is unlawful.

I have considered the facts and circumstances of this application.

Petitioner's application to this court is misconceived on one hand (as pleaded by

Respondents) and on the other hand, Petitioner had also failed to produce the

order of the High Court, referred to above. A party applying for a prorogative writ

is under a duty to the court to disclose all material facts. So rigorous is the

necessity for a full and truthful disclosure of all material facts that the courts will

not go into the merits of the application, but will dismiss it without further

examination. Alphonso Vs. Appuhamy Vs. Hettiaratchchi (1973) 77 NLR 131, 136.

6

This court need to focus only on the quit notice and its validity. Mere attempt to

demonstrate in the written submissions as to how title was acquired by producing

a deed is not a matter for this court to consider in the context and circumstances

of this writ application. When the Petitioner seems to be very sure or concerned

and confident as regards the identity of the land in dispute, he could pursue that

course of action, but as far as this writ application is concerned the Petitioner's

application is without merit. I am very much impressed and inclined to accept

each and every position taken up by the Respondents in their objections, I am

aware that the Supreme Court restricted and interpreted the powers given to the

state to resort to this procedure in Senanayake Vs. Dumunupola (1982) 2 SLR 62l.

Thereafter the law was amended and the opinion of the Competent Authority in

the notice, that the land was State Land could not be questioned, by the 1985

amendment to the State Land Recovery of Possession Act. The possession which

is termed unauthorized possession or occupation contemplates limited defences.

The occupier in terms of the law can only produce a permit or written authority to

remain in possession 1993(1) SLR 218; the onus is on the person asserting but he

must be aware when to do it and where to do it.

7

In all the above circumstances of this application I am not impressed

by the submissions of learned counsel for Appellant. There is no merit in this

application. As such the application is dismissed without costs.

Application dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

f f

f it f

III