==== BLOCKS ==== 

., ,r 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for the grant of Writs of Certiorari and Prohibition under terms of Article 140 of the constitution.

1. Talawakelle Plantations Ltd. No: 25, Foster Lane, Colombo 10.

2. H.P.W. Vithanage, Superintendent, Moragalle Estate, Imaduwa.

Petitioners

Vs.

1. Land Reform Commission, No: C 82, Gregory's Avenue, Colombo 7.

2. Rohana de Alwis, Director, District Land Reform Board, Galle.

2A Bandara Mangalika Thisera, District Land Reform Board Galle.

, \

C.A.608/09

Before

Counsel

2

3.

4.

5.

Sri Lanka State Plantations Corporation, No: 55/75, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2.

Secretary, Ministry of Plantations Industries, No 55/75, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2.

K.W. Manjula, Viharakanda Paragoda, Imaduma.

Respondents

2A. B.M. Tisera, Director District Land Reform Board, Galle.

Added Respondent

Writ Application

Rohini Marasinghe,J.

J.C. Weliamuna for the Petitioner.

S.S. Sahabandu with I.R. Rajapakse for the 1 st Respondent.

Argued &

Decided on

3

A. Gnanathasan ASG. P.C. with Nayomi Kahawita SC. for the 3rd and 4th Respondents.

23.05.2012

Rohini Marasinghe,J.

The 1 st petitioner is a company by the name of

Talawakele Plantations Ltd. The 2nd Petitioner is the

Superintendent of the 1st petitioner company. The 1st

respondent is the Land Reform Commission (LRC). The 3rd

respondent is the Sri-Lanka State Plantations Corporation.

(SLSPC) The 5 th respondent is the person in whose favour the

impugned documents have been issued.

The petitioner by his application alleged the

following;

The ownership of the land in question belonged to

the LRC. Pursuant to the gazette marked as P2 the ownership

4

of the land called' Moragalle Estate without any residue was

transferred by the LRC to SLSPC. Consequent to this vesting,

the LRC ceased to have any title to the said land depicted in

schedule to P2. The SLSPC entered into a lease a agreement

with the petitioner company. Pursuant to the lease indenture

the SLSPC leased the said estate to the petitioner company.

The present dispute arose as a result of the LRC taking steps

to lease a portion of the said estate to the 5th respondent. The

petitioners in this application have sought a writ in the nature

of certiorari to quash the decisions contained the documents

marked as PIO, P6(a) and P6 (b).

The respondents meanIng the LRC filed affidavit

objecting to the application of the petitioners. The LRC

claimed ownership to the land in issue. The extent of the land

in issue seems to be about 3/ 4th acre of land. The basis of the

claim to the impugned portion of land was for the reasons

mentioned in I R2. According to the contents in I R2, as I

understand is as follows:

5

At one time the Moragalla estate was comprised of

531acres and 32 perches, which was owned by the LRC.

Subsequently, the administration of the said extent was

transferred to the SLSPC. On 27-2-1982, an extent of 473

acres and 33 perches was vested in SLSPC. (P2) As the

respondents have admitted the vesting I am not required to

decide on the legality of such vesting as reflected in P2. (vide

1R2)

At the time of the vesting, there was an extent of 7

acres that belonged to Moragala estate which had not been

included as a portion that had been vested on SLSPC.

Consequently, the LRC continued to be the owners of that

portion of land.

And it is the contention of the respondents that the

impugned portion of land is situated within those 7 acres of

land belonging to the LRC.

6

The petitioner in his counter objections had referred

to the document marked as lR2. In the paragraph 15 of the

counter objections the petitioner, reiterated the fact that the

Moragalla estate was comprised of land which were not

contiguous to Moragalla estate. But the petitioner had not

adequately challenged the position taken by the respondent

with regard to the 7 acres which was referred to in lR2. The

most important fact in this case was whether the respondent

was correct in what was stated in lR2. The petitioner had not

challenged the finding contained in lR2. That fact may be

described as the disputed fact in this case. And on that fact,

the respondent's investigation and determination had not

been challenged. The findings of the respondent would have

been reviewable if the petitioner had established that the

decision contained in lR2 was wrong because the respondents

had misunderstood the material facts in this case or had made

a material error on an "established" fact or that the decision

was perverse. And" established" would mean those facts that

were available for the decision but the respondents have

apparently overlooked, misunderstood or made a material

7

mistake or acted perversely in deciding that fact. The most

generous interpretation of 'established' was given by Cooke

J. in Daganayasi v. Minister of Irrigation [1980] 2 NLR

130. In that case the court was prepared to treat the

information known by a doctor to carry out an examination of

a child as being established facts. In applying this principle to

this case the 'established' facts would mean to include the

entire extent of the Moragalla estate, the extent that was

vested on the SLSPC, the extent which remained in the

ownership of the LRC according to the knowledge of the LRC.

On these facts the LRC had reached a conclusion which is

reflected in 1 R2. As the petitioner had not challenged the

decision contained in lR2 with regard to the 7 acres of land

retained by the LRC, there is no way this court could have

interfered with that finding. The procedure exists (Appellate

procedure rules) for any party to challenge any fact by

adducing fresh evidence by way of affidavit or by submitting

additional documents to this court in the manner provided in

the Rules.

.. 8

The petitioner had failed to establish that the

impugned documents are challengeable as in mentioned

paragraph 18 of the petition.

A succinct summary of the principle underlying the

limited approach to review of administrative fact-finding is

provided in the following observation of Lord Brightman ill

Pulhofer v. Hillingdon London Borough Council;

"Where the existence or non -existence of a fact is left

to the judgment and discretion of a public body it is the duty

of the court to leave the decision of that fact to the public body

to whom the Parliament has entrusted the decision making

power save in a case where it is obvious that the public body,

consciously or unconsciously are acting Perversely" . ([ 1986]

A.C. 484,518)

Another noteworthy judgment relating to the powers

of the courts in reviewing the decisions of the administrative

bodies has been exhaustively dealt in the case of Reg. Home

9

Secretary, ex.p Khawaja (H.L.) [1984] p74,98) while

overruling the decision contained in Reg. V. secretary of

state for the Home department, Rx parte Zamir [1980] A.C.

930.

Therefore , for the foregoing reasons I dismiss the

application of the petitioners.

Rohini Marasinghe ,J.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Jmrj-