==== BLOCKS ==== 

"

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C. A 769 A and 769 B / 1996 F

DC Panadura 246/P

Before: A.W.A.Salam J

H Winnie Fernando, No 16, Walana, Panadura

10th Defenadant-Appellant

KG Sunil, No 216/5, Egodauyana, Moratuwa.

11 th Defendant-Appellant

Vs

V,P Malalasekara, 102/3, Rosmead Place, Colombo 7

Plaintiff-Respondent

A M Wijeratna, 8, Elliot Place, Colombo 8

1st Defendant-Respondent and others

Counsel: Mahinda Ralapanawa for the 10th defendant-appellant, Daya Guruge for the 11th defendant-appellant and R C Gunaratna for the respondents.

Argued On: 22.03.2011

Written Submissions Tendered On: 05.04.2011

Decided On: 13.12.2011

3

defendant conveyed to him on deed 235 in the year 1988 an

undivided 16 perches and that the corpus be partitioned

between him and the 10 defendant. The main ground of appeal

of the 10th and 11th defendants is based on an alleged improper

examination of title by the learned trial judge.

There was no controversy that in 1971 the plaintiffs mother

Clarice instituted a rei-vindication action (No 12417) against

Winnie Fernando, the 10th defendant and two others seeking

the ejectment of them from the land and premises in suit.

Clarice, the plaintiff in the rei-vindicatio action has based her

title on the same line of title as has been pleaded by the plaintiff

in the instant partition action.

The appellant had sought to impugn the judgment of the

learned district judge also on the grounds that the 10th

defendant-appellant's had possessed the corpus for more than

16 years even after the judgment had been entered against him

in the rei-vindicatio action. The appellants state that the

plaintif and 1st to 9th defendants are estopped from claiming

the land since they have not executed the judgment in the rei-

vindicatio action for a long period of time exceeding well over

10 years. Further the 10th defendant appellant put forward in

the forefront of his case that his possession of the subject

matter over a period of 16 years after entering judgment and

decree in case No 12417/L has given him sufficient

prescriptive title. In any event, the 10th defendant appellant has

5

The plaintiff in his evidence stated that subsequent to the

impugned judgment having been entered in case No 12417, he

informed the 10th defendant of his intention to dispose of the

property and permitted him to stay on the land till he built him

a house. As regards the permissive user of the 10th defendant,

the plaintiff was able to establish that they prepared plan

bearing No 2604 by W.R.B de Silva licensed Surveyor which

was submitted for approval to the Urban Council of Panadura

in September 1980. The receipt issued by the Panadura Urban

Council is marked P16. As a matter of fact the 10th defendant in

his evidence admitted that a surveyor came to the land and

subdivided into five lots and it was the plaintiff intention to sell

the same. However 10th defendant maintained the position that

he objected to the said survey.

As regards the payment of rates to the Urban Council, it has to

be observed that until the year 1985 the rates have been paid

by plaintiff. The receipts regarding the payment of rates were

produced marked Pl0, Plt, P12, lD6, lD7. The 10th defendant

in his evidence stated initially that he paid the rates for both

allotments of land. Thereafter he stated that there was a

remission of rates but no evidence was produced in support of

this assertion. In the circumstances, the learned counsel of

the plaintiff has submitted that his client has clearly rebutted

the presumption ariSing under section 110 of the Evidence

Ordinance and established that the 10th defendant's occupation

7

his behalf and rejecting the evidence of the 10th defendant-

appellant. It was also submitted that in deciding this case in

favour of the plaintiff-respondent he has failed to give any

reasons for his findings other than a mere narration of the

evidence given by the witnesses.

As regards Points of contest No's 29 and 30 it was urged that

the learned district judge had erred in deciding the same in

favour of the plaintiff-respondent when it was quite clear that

the boundaries and extent given in the land described in the

schedule to the plaint are different from the boundaries and

extent given in the Preliminary Plan marked 'X'. It is to be

observed at this stage that there was no contest regarding the

identity of the corpus and whatever the slight discrepancies

that they may have occurred in the description of the land and

its boundaries cannot be taken as being favourable to the

contesting defendants. It is to be noted that the contesting

defendants have in fact made a claim for prescriptive title to

the subject matter of the action that was identified by the

plaintiff in his plaint and also depicted in the preliminary plan.

It transpired in the evidence of the plaintiff that to facilitate the

plaintiff and/or his successor in title to possess the property in

the manner they wanted the 10th the defendants has agreed to

accept alternative accommodation provided by the plaintiff.

Accordingly the plaintiff has constructed a house at

\ '

9

that the contesting defendants are mere licen~ees.

For reasons stated above, I am of the opinion that the both

appeals preferred by the 10th and 11th defendant-appellants do

not merit any favourable considerations and therefore liable to

be dismissed. Accordingly, the judgment of the learned district

judge therefore is affirmed and appeals dismissed without cost. ~~. Judge of the Court of Appeal

2

A W Abdus Salam,J T

his is an action to partition the land called Appukutiyawatta

and Parangiyawatta, in terms of the Partition Law No 17 of

1997. The plaintiff in his plaint has shown undivided rights in

the land to his siblings 1st to 9th defendants. The 10th and 11th

defendants are claimants before the surveyor and added as

parties to the case. They filed their statement of claim setting

up a title to the entire land by right of long and prescriptive

possession. The corpus has been depicted in plan No 725 dated

12. 5. 1990 made by K G Fernando Licenced Surveyor and

Commissioner of Court.

According to the plaintiff by right of long possession Don

Siyadoris Apphuhamy and Kuruppage Dona Banchohamy were

the owners of the corpus which was originally depicted in plan

8916 dated 03.05.1922 made surveyor Flamer Caldera. The

said original owners had gifted the property to their daughter

Dona Claris who died leaving a last will bearing no 5044, dated

11.10.1970 which was duly proved and admitted to probate in

the District Court of Colombo in Testamentary proceedings No

897. Subsequently, by executors conveyance bearing No 6755,

the land in question has been conveyed to the plaintiff and the

Is to 9th defendants.

The 10th and 11th defendants maintained that they had

prescribed to the land and 12th defendant pleaded that the 10th

4

raised the question as to whether the plaintiff had proved that

he was the licensee in case No 12417 jL and whether the

learned district judge in his the impugned judgment has given

sufficient reasons for his conclusion that the land should be

partitioned according to the rights shown by the plaintiff.

There had been admittedly two previous cases in which the

10th defendant and the 11th defendant's predecessor-in-title

were defendants. It has been contented on behalf of the

plaintiff-respondent that in fact the burden of examining title of

the parties in a partition action was considerably lightened due

to the decree entered in the earlier actions ~gainst the

contesting defendants. In the circumstances, the plaintiff has

submitted that the position maintained by the contesting

defendants that there had been no proper examination of title

by the trial judge, cannot be accepted.

Another question that loomed large in the presentation of the

case of the contesting defendants was that they had prescribed

to corpus. The mother of the plaintiff instituted action bearing

No 12417 against the 10th defendant and sought the ejectment

of the 10th defendant from the land. The plaint in that case is

marked P6, the answer P7 and the decree dated 19th January

1973 as P8. The plaintiffs mother died in 1973 and probate was

issued on 23.09.1982. It is contended at the argument that the

10th defendant was in possession of this land since 1973 and

therefore the burden is on the plaintiff to establish that he did

not possess the land ut dominus.

6

of the land was referable to an acknowledgment of the

plaintiffs title.

According to the 11th defendant the mother of the plaintiff

instituted action No 10875 against the 11th defendant's

predecessor-in-title Siripala in respect of this land. The plaint is

marked ID2, the answer 103 and judgment was entered in

favour of the plaintiffs mother in 1968. The decree entered in

the said case was marked as. 1 0 4.' Thus it is common

knowledge that Siripala has had no paper title to this land and

the 11th defendant in his statement of claim pleads that he

purchased this land in 1985. In his evidence he stated that at

the time he made the purchase from Siripala, the latter was not

on this land. The 11th defendant was able to testify in regard to

his alleged title only from the year 1985. Admittedly, when

Jayasiri Malasekera cut down trees on this land Siripala had not

objected to the trees being so cut down.

The evidence also indicates that Siripala Fernando had put up a

foundation for a building and the 11th defendat-appellant put

up a small house on the very same foundation. He testified that

the plaintiff and/or his agent did not cut down any trees that

stood on the said five (05) perches ofland.

It was submitted that the trial judge had erred in accepting the

evidence of the plaintiff-respondent and other evidence led on

8

Sarikamulla in Panadura for the 10th defendant. The 10th

defendant has in fact agreed to vacate the premises in question

and has also made a statement to the police stating that he is

willing to move into the house constructed by the plaintiff to

provide him alternative accommodation. A photograph of the

house constructed by the plaintiff has been produced marked

as P14.

Even though the contesting defendant alleged that the

statement made to the police has been recorded under duress

. it has not been proved according to law. The contesting

defendant has not even made a single complaint to anyone in

authority regarding the alleged duress exerted on him. Further,

the contesting defendant has also made the statement to the

mediation board admitting the position taken up by the

plaintiff.

Taking all these matters into consideration it is highly

improbable on a balance of probability to infer that the

contesting defendants have acquired a prescriptive title to the

subject matter of the action or acquired any other rights by

right of purchase.

In the circumstances, the irresistible conclusion the learned

district judge could have arrived at was that the land in

question is owned by the plaintiff and 1st to 9th defendants and