==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C. A. Appeal No. 65 - 67/2008 HC Kurunegala Case No. 119/99

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Complainant Vs. 1. Rajapaksha Mudiyanselage Anuruddha Jayathilaka 2. Edippuli Mudiyanselage Erick Lakshman 3. Kuruppuge Nuwan Chaminda Alwis

Accused AND NOW BETWEEN 1. Rajapaksha Mudiyanselage Anuruddha Jayathilaka 2. Edippuli Mudiyanselage Erick Lakshman 3. Kuruppuge Nuwan Chaminda Alwis

Accused- Appellant Vs. Hon. Attorney General Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

I I I 1 I I i I I i

~

C.A.65-67/2008

Before

Counsel

Decided on

H.C. Kurunegala Case No: 119/99

SISIRA J. DE ABREW,J. (ACTING PICA) AND P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA,J.

Ranil Samarasooriya with Manjula

Ranasinghe & Madhawa Wijayasriwardena for the 1st Accused-Appellant.

Rohan Gamlath for the 2nd Accused-Appellant. Rohantha Abeysuriya D.S.G. for the A.G.

27.11.2013

******

Sis ira J. de Abrew ,J. (Acting PI CAl

Heard counsel for both parties in support of their respective

cases. The Attorney General leveled four charges against all three

accused-appellants. The 1st charge was a charge of attempted

murder to a person named Balasuriya Mudiyanselage Jayaratna.

The 2nd Count was also a Count under Section 300 of the Penal

I I

J ! I I 1 j I 1 1 j I

I

I

2 ~J ~ Code ( an attempted murder Count) to a person Balasuriya

A Mudiyanselage Wimalaratne. The 3rd Count was also under

Section 300 of the Penal Code (an attempted murder Count) to a

woman named Wimalawathie. The 4th Count was a robbery of

Motor Cycle bearing registration No: 143-3177 from the

possession of Balasuriya Mudiyanselage Jayaratna. Learned trial

Judge after trial convicted all three accused-appellants on all four

counts. On the 1st count the 1st accused-appellant was sentenced

to a term of 12 years Rigorous Imprisonment and to pay a fine of

Rs: 2000/- carrying a default sentence of 6 months imprisonment.

Same punishment was imposed in respect of the 2nd and 3rd counts

on the 1st accused-appellant. On the 4th count 1 st accused-

appellant was sentenced to a term of 7 years Rigorous

Imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs: 2000/- carrying a default

sentence of 6 months imprisonment. Learned High Court Judge

directed that the 12 year term of imprisonment imposed on the 1st,

2 nd and 3rd Counts should run concurrently and 7 year Rigorous

Imprisonment imposed on the 4th Count should run consecutively.

The 2nd accused, on the 1st Count was sentenced to a term of 8

3

years Rigorous Imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs: 2000/-

carrying a default sentence of 6 months imprisonment.

Same punishment was imposed in respect of the 2nd and

3rd Count on the 2nd accused-appellant. The 2nd accused-appellant,

on the 4th Count, was sentenced to a term of 5 years Rigorous

Imprisonment and to pay fine of Rs: 2000/- carrying a default

sentence of 6 months imprisonment.

Learned High Court Judge directed that the term of

imprisonment imposed on the 1st,2nd and 3rd Counts should run

concurrently but the term of 5 years Rigorous Imprisonment

imposed on the 4th Count should run consecutively. The 3rd

accused-appellant, on the 1st Count, was sentenced to a term of 10

years Rigorous Imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs: 2000/-

carrying a default sentence of 6 months imprisonment. In respect

of the 2nd and 3rd Counts, same punishment was imposed on the 3rd

accused-appellant. The 3rd accused, on the 4th Count, was

sentenced to a term of 7 years Rigorous Imprisonment and to pay a

fine of Rs: 2000/-carrying default sentence of 6 months

4 ~ ~ imprisonment. Learned High Court Judge directed the term of

"-imprisonment imposed on the 1st ,2nd and 3rd Counts should run

concurrently but the term of 7 years imprisonment imposed on the

4th Count should run consecutively.

Mr. Samarasooriya appearIng for the 1 st accused-

appellant and Mr. Gamlath appearing for the 2nd and 3rd accused-

appellants make an application to withdraw the appeal and

implement the sentence from the date of conviction. They also

make an application to direct that the term of imprisonment

imposed on the 4th Count should run concurrently with the terms of

imprisonment imposed on the 1st and 2nd and 3rd Counts. Learned

D.S.G. has no objections to this application.

We allow the application to withdraw the appeal. We

direct that term of imprisonment imposed on 1 st ,2nd ,3rd and 4th

Counts should run concurrently in respect of all three accused.

We also direct that the sentence should be implemented from the

date of sentencing by the learned High Court Judge. Learned

High Court Judge is directed to issue a fresh committal. The fines

II II f t

5

imposed by the learned High Court Judge remain unaltered. If the

fines are not paid, the default sentences should be implemented in

addition to the term of imprisonment imposed on the 1 st to 4th

Counts. We direct the learned High Court Judge of Kurunegala to

Issue a fresh committal indicating the directions given by this

Court. Appeal of the appellants are dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Jmrj-