==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

CA (Writ) Application No. CA WRIT 513/2011

In the matter of application for Mandates in the nature of writ of Certiorari and mandamus under and in terms of Article 140 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

1. Horadugoda Gamage Chandra Kithsiri, 92/9, Ananda Ranatunga Mawatha, Diulpotha, Ingiriya.

2. Wijekonora Mudiyanselage Damith Bandara Seneviratne, Meegasthanna Watta, Ranawana, Kalugastota.

3. Harischandra Dharmakeerthi Alwis Weerasinghe, No.SO, Palagama, Polgasovita.

4. Dharmaraja Susila Aluthgedara,

No.254, Mathale Road, Alawathugoda.

5. Pramoad Priyadarshana

Weeraprameeshwara, No.12, Halangoda, Mathale.

Petitioners Vs.

1. Sri Lanka Transport Board, No.200, Kirula Road, Colombo 05. And 22 others.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued on

Written Submission on

Decided on

S.Sriskandarajah,J

2

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

Asthike Devendra,

for the Petitioner

Daya Guruge,

for the 1st ,2nd and 4th Respondents,

Chaya Sri Nammuni

For the 22nct to 25th Respondents

04.03.2013

01.04.2013 (Petitioner)

16.05.2013 (Respondent)

17. 07.2013

Respondents

The Petitioners are employees of the Sri Lanka Transport Board and Members of the

Approved Provident Fund of the Sri Lanka Transport Board. The Petitioners submitted that

there are approximately 2,800 employees who are members of the said Approved Provident

Fund of the Sri Lanka Transport Board; the Approved Provident Fund is governed by the

provisions of the Provident Fund Rules and Regulations of the Sri Lanka Transport Board. It is

submitted that the Approved Provident Fund provides rules and regulations in the Sri Lanka

Transport Board which derives legal force from the provisions of the Motor Transport Act

No.48 of 1987, Transport Board Law Act No.19 of 1978 and Sri Lanka Transport Board Act

No.27 of 2005. The Petitioners in this application are challenging the decision to obtain money

from the Approved Provident Fund. It is the submission of the Petitioners that Clause 5 of the

Rules and Regulations of the Approved Provident Fund provides as follows:-

1) The monies of the fund shall, from time to time, be invested in the name of the employer as

custodian trustee;

3

(a) In or upon any form of investment authorized by law for

the investment of trust monies;

(b) By way of any form of interest bearing deposit in a commercial bank and/ or institution

recognized by the government.

2) No part of the Fund shall be invested directly or indirectly in the business of or loaned to the

employer or any or any subsidiary or holding company or any or to any other business in which

an employer has any interest.

The Petitioner submitted that Rs.633m was released from the said fund by way of a Cabinet

Memorandum submitted by the 21st Respondent the Hon. Minister of Transport. This money

was obtained to satisfy the Fund which was given by the Treasury to the Approved Provident

Fund in order to pay the gratuity of the employees who have ceased from membership in the

Approved Provident Fund, and part of the money was released for the purpose of developing

the Sri Lanka Transport Board. The Petitioner submitted that it is not challenging the

withdrawal of the said sum in this application, but the Petitioner has submitted that after the

said Rs.653m has been withdrawn from the fund, all monies remaining in the Fund are monies

which belong to and held in trust and for the remaining members of the Approved Provident

Fund. The Petitioner submitted that on 2 occasions funds were released to pay the Cost of

Living Allowance of the employees of the Sri Lanka Transport Board and, on one occasion,

Rs.2,400,000/- was released by the 2nd Respondent in order to pay the gratuity for the year 2009

and in order to buy buses for the Sri Lanka Transport Board. The Petitioner submitted that the

Sri Lanka Transport Board cannot make the said request as such payments are for the business

of the Sri Lanka Transport Board. According to Clause 5 of the Rules and Regulations of the

Provident Fund, the Committee of Management is prohibited to invest monies of the Fund in

the business of the employer. Therefore, the Petitioner submitted, the release of money from

the Approved Provident Fund for the benefit of the employer are illegal and, as the Petitioners

were affected by the said decision, are seeking to challenge those decisions in this application.

4

It is the position of the Respondents that the Ministry of Transport has submitted a

Memorandum dated 10/06/2002 to the Cabinet of Ministers seeking approval to obtain funds

from the Provident Fund of the Sri Lanka Transport Board to pay gratuity to the retired

employees of the Board. The Cabinet, after obtaining a report from the Committee comprising

the Secretary /Ministry of Transport, the Commissioner of Labour, and the Representative from

the General Treasury and Central Bank of Sri Lanka, arrived at a finding that the gratuity

payable to retired employees as at 31/03/2009 was approximately Rs.910m and, at that time,

the General Treasury had provided a sum of Rs.1,500,000/- to the Sri Lanka Transport Board for

the payment of gratuity and, therefore, it was decided that the said sum should be recovered

from the Provident Fund which had a balance of Rs.154,967,407/- as at 31/12/2008, and this

sum has developed to Rs.587,735,768/-and thereafter this sum has increased to

Rs.663,584,741/- by 30/06/2010 and, after the Cabinet approval for the release of the Fund, the

Chief Monitor of the 1st Respondent Board requested the transfer by the Management Board of

the Sri Lanka Transport Board Provident Fund to utilize a sum of Rs.500m to pay gratuity and

after a sum of Rs.1,900m to purchase 500 buses out of the funds already released as per the

Cabinet approval. The Petitioners submitted that the Board of Management of the Sri Lanka

Transport Board Provident Fund has no authority to take decisions to release funds from the Sri

Lanka Central Transport Board Provident Fund in view of the prohibition embodied in Clause

5(2) of the said Provident Fund Rules and Regulations. The said rules state: "No part of the

fund shall be invested directly or indirectly in the business of or loan to the employer or in or

any subsidiary or holding company or any or to any other business in which the employer has

had any interest."

The Respondent submitted that the said Rules and Regulations are formulated under the

Transport Board Law No.19 of 1978 and as it is now repealed by Sri Lanka Transport Board Act

No. 27 of 2005, no Rules or Regulations are formulated under Sri Lanka Transport Board Act

No.27 of 2005. There is no evidence to state that the Rules and Regulations framed under the

Transport Board Law No.19 of 1978 is adopted under the Sri Lanka Transport Board Act No.27

of 2005 and, therefore, that the said approved provident fund is now not covered by the

Provident Fund Rules and Regulations of the Sri Lanka Transport Board. Under the Sri Lanka

Transport Board Act No.27 of 2005, the Minister of Transport is empowered to make general or

5

specific direction in relation to the functioning of the 1st Respondent Board and, in the given

circumstances, the Minister of Transport has sought approval from the Cabinet of Ministers to

release funds from the Approved Provident Fund. The Cabinet appointed a Committee

comprising of the Secretary /Ministry of Transport, the Commissioner of Labour, Members of

the Central Bank of Sri Lanka, and the Secretary to the Treasury to submit a report on releasing

funds for the benefit of the 1st Respondent from the Approved Provident Fund. After

considering the said Committee Report, the Cabinet has approved the release of the said funds

to the benefit of the 1st Respondent Board. As the Rules and Regulations formulated under the

Transport Board Law No.19 of 1978 is no more in operation, the restriction imposed on

releasing the fund for the benefit of the 1st Respondent is not in operation and, in these

circumstances the Cabinet has made a decision to release funds from the Approved Provident

Fund, after due consideration, to the benefit of the 1st Respondent. As the Cabinet decision is a

policy decision, this Court has no jurisdiction to issue a certiorari to quash the Cabinet decision

to release the said fund for the appropriate purposes and therefore this Court dismisses this

application without costs.

President of the Court of Appeal