==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I

1 I I I I

i

I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Kahapola Arachchige Prabath

Anuruddha Nilupul Fernando

(Nilupul Kahapolarachchi)

No. 56, Delthara, Piliyandala.

AND 4 OTHERS

C.A 177/2010 (Writ)

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

Anil Gooneratne J.

Vs.

Urban Council Kesbewa

Kesbewa, Piliyandala

10. Sam path Perera

No. 36/5, Gangaboda Road,

Delthara, Piliyandala.

AND 10 OTHERS

RESPONDENTS

Chathura Galhena with Manoja Gunawardena for Petitioners

Arjuna Obeysekera D.S.G. for 3rd 4th 6th & i h Respondents

Manohara de Silva P.e. for 8th 9th & 11th Respondents

1

f [,. l,I

1II

t

~ J•f,

fIiI

f•1Jl

I 1 j i ,

I 1 I 1 1 1 j 1 j j i I I I I

I

1 I I I j I I I I,

I l 1

2

ARGUED ON: 29.11.2013

DECIDED ON: 30.05.2014

GOONERATNE J.

The five Petitioners in this Writ Application are residents of 'Delthara'

village, as described in the petition. The village itself located at the bank of

either side of Bolgoda river. Petitioners claim to be officials of an organization

called ((Environmentalist Delthara", main objectives being the protection of

natural resources and conservation of environmental riches of the Bolgoda

lake and Bolgoda river. This is a public interest litigation and the Petitioners

aver that the application was filed in fulfillment of its duty in terms of Article

28(F) of the Constitution to protect nature and conserve its riches. A Writ of

Mandamus is sought against Respondents Nos. 1 - 6. Writ of Prohibition is

sought against 1st & 2nd Respondents from issuing permits and granting

approvals as their functions and duties as a local authority. This court observes

that the filing of this type of 'application is no doubt laudable. However I have

to consider the merits and demerits of this application, and more particularly

J

r

1 J

j i I I i I

f , I I

j I I 1

f I

3

whether the Respondents owe a duty to the Petitioners. Further is there a

refusal on the part of official Respondents to perform their statutory/public

duty on behalf of the civil society and the Petitioners?

The Petitioners plead the usefulness drawn from Bolgoda lake. It

serves.

(a) Provide irrigation facilities

(b) The production of fish

(c) Water for industrial usage

(d) To control of flooding and digestion of waste

Petitioner further pleads that wet lands (marshy lands) around the

Bolgoda River performs an invaluable function during heavy rains being a

sponge to absorb rain water and drain it through the natural drainage system.

Petitioners argue that illegal soil filling and unauthorized or illegal

construction, in the vicinity where the Petitioner reside have negative effects

and seriously threaten the vitality of Bolgoda lake system and its bio diversity.

In paragraph 15 of the petition and its corresponding para in the affidavit it is

stated a large Mangrove area called {(Kadol Kumbura" depicted in Survey

General's Plan Co/Mo/KSB/sub/2001/234 of 2001 indicates illegal

f!III<,t

~ ! ! I i !

I

~ i i

1 I i ,

4

encroachments. Para 16 provide useful material which inter alia state natural

flow of fresh water disturbed and reduction of oxygen to aquatic life.

Petitioner very correctly plead the reservations on Bolgoda lake and

prohibition for any type of construction (para 17/18).

In a gist some of the functions and duties bestowed on the 1st & the

2nd Respondents as pleaded by Petitioners are as follows (inclusive of lapses)

(1) The 1st & 2nd Respondents in terms of Section 5 & 6 of the Housing and

Town Improvement Ordinance have legal authority to approve plans prior

to construction. Legal duty also to refrain from approving plans in conflict

with the law.

(2) In view of above Petitioners complains that the 1st & 2nd Respondents have

failed to perform the above public duty and has approved plans contrary to

above.

(3) By plan PI, 23 lots identified as unauthorized encroachments.

Unauthorized filling continues.

(4) By plan P2, 11 of such lands of which portions gained by illegal soil filling

are identified and survey conducted by Control Environmental Authority.

(5) By P3, 18 lands identified by Survey General.

(6) Deed of gift executed (P4) on land gained by illegal filling.

(7) 1st Respondent constructed an unauthorized building.

II

lt

t

1ifI,

~ t

tt

1Ij

~~ ,

! i I i

5

There is also reference to a petition sent by the Petitioners along with 374

Villages (Ps).

In response to above Ps the Petitioner aver that 1st 2nd 3rd 5th & 6th

Respondents confined only to letters exchanged between them. As such the

official Respondents have not taken any positive and productive steps as

evidenced in P6, P7, P8 & P9. Petitioners plead that due to inaction of the

official Respondents in this application, further letter marked Pl0(a) to Pl0 (c)

are produced by the Petitioners. Petitioners state that 1st Respondent sent

letters signed by the 2

nd Respondent to inquire (vide Plla & Pll(b). 1st

Respondent also sent letter P12 to 9th Respondent.

The Respondents sent letters to 8th 10th & 11th Respondents by P13 to

P13(c ) & P14 (a) to P14(c ) to immediately stop illegal soil filling. Petitioners

complain that more than 8 months lapsed from the date of dispatch of the

above letters by the Petitioners, but the illegal filling and unauthorized

constructions are continuing without legal action being taken by the 1st & 2

nd

,

3rd to 6th Respondents. The 4th Respondent by Gazette Pls in terms of Section

24C & 24D of the National Environmental Act No. 47 of 1980 naming the

Bolgoda lake and its surrounding 'environmental protected' area. Pls gives the

prohibited construction area (40 feet).

1 I 1 j

1 I ~ M

~ i I I I I l j l I I I

!

'i 1 1 i I I I

6

I would for purpose of clarity and better understanding of the

grievance of the Petitioners and incorporate the following para 44 of the

petition.

The Petitioners state that the relevant agencies have failed and/or neglected

to act with respect to the adverse impacts caused by soil fillings and

constructions on Bolgoda River, its bank and surrounding marshy lands by

following ways.

(i) Failed to act to prevent environmental degradation according to Article 27(14) of the

directive principles of state policy and fundamental duties in chapter Vi of the

constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka which states as follows.

(ii) Failed to perform the legal duties under section 24B of the National Environmental

Act.

(iii) Failed to take appropriate measures under the rights vested under section 72 of the

State Land Ordinance for preventing the unauthorized obstructions of Bolgoda River.

(iv) Failed to serve quite notices under section 3(1) of the state lands (recovery of

possession) Act No.7 of 1979 , on the persons who are in unauthorized possession

or occupation of the reservation areas of Bolgoda River requiring such persons to

vacate such lands and to deliver vacant possession of such lands.

(v) Failed to serve notices under section 65(1) of the Irrigation Ordinance No. 32 of 1946

(as amended) on the persons who obstructs and encroaches upon Bolgoda River

requiring such persons to remove or abate such obstruction and encroachments.

(vi) Failed to comply with the provisions of section 7(1) of the Housing and Town

Improvement Ordinance No. 19 of 1915 (as amended) when approving the building

I , I

1 1 !

J I I I I

I , I I I I

7

plans for the constructions on lands which are gained by illegal soil fillings over the

Bolgoda River and its banks.

(vii) Failed to act under the provisions of Regulations specified in Gazette Extraordinary

No. 1634/23 dated 30/12/2009.

The position of the official Respondents gathered from affidavits and

objections are catergorised and the gist of it are considered as follows.

1st & 2nd Respondents

• 9th & 10th Respondents sought planning permission from the 1st & 2nd

Respondents to construct houses in non-reservation areas. Having

considered their application and after following all legal procedures

granted the necessary planning permission under the authority vested on

the 1st Respondent, by the Urban Development Authority Law.

• Bolgoda and its reservation serve a useful environmental functions.

Petitioner has not proved the specific functions.

• Petitioner has stated only a position with regard to part of Section 77 of the

State Lands Ordinance.

• 1st & 2nd Respondents have taken all necessary action within the powers

vested.

!

f IIf ! I

I

J

! II

i

8

• 9th Respondent was directed to obtain a clearance certificate from 6th

Respondent as regards non reservation areas and it was obtained and

permission granted accordingly - 1,2 R1.

3rd Respondent

• In order to take legal action against unauthorized filling, the land area

should be declared under Section 2(1) & 2(b)(1) of the Sri Lanka

Reclamation and Development Corporation Act as a reclamation and

development area and as a low lying, marshy, waste or surveying area.

• 3rd Respondent has informed those who are carrying out unauthorized

filling of lands to immediately stop unauthorized activity.

4th Respondent

• 4th Respondent carried out an inspection of the 8th Respondent

premises on 11.6.2009 and 22.4.2010. It revealed that prior permission

as required by, low areas not obtained by the 8th Respondent.

• 8th Respondent had carried out development activity on the 40 feet

reservation adjoining his land violating the applicable law.

• On 3.4.2009 and 22.4.2010 of premises No. 39/5 Gangabada Road,

Piliyandala owned by one Roshan Maddumage, an illegal construction

was revealed where a swimming pool and a building had been

constructed on the 40 feet reservation.

! I I i II

~ ! ,

I, , !

f !

9 l

This court notes that 5th & 6th Respondents have not filed objections to

this application. I would briefly consider the position of 8th to 1ih Respondents

! I

! i

against whom certain allegations are leveled against by the Petitioners. The

8th and 9th Respondents state that 9th Respondent wanted to construct a house

have submitted the approved plan 8R3, UDA approval 8R4, Development I

i

and for that purpose obtained all necessary approvals. These Respondents

t permit 8R4A and based on such approvals. 9th Respondent commenced and

concluded constructions. 11th Respondent aver that all necessary approval

have been obtained and has produced whatever approval obtained by way of

documentary proof.

The material placed by the Petitioners in their writ application no doubt

raise very important and relevant issues connecting directive principles of

state policy and fundamental duties embodied in Chapter VI of the

constitution focused and contained in Article 28(F) namely to protect nature

and conserve its riches. However such provisions do not confer or impose legal

rights or obligations and not enforceable in a court of law (Article 29).

Nevertheless I have been invited by the Petitioners to consider the 'public

trust doctrine' to state functionaries in the exercise of their powers. Such a

doctrine has been discussed in the judgment pronounced by the Supreme

10

Court, which is very relevant to the case in hand and which could have the

effect of overriding Article 29 of the Constitution, since by Article 140, the

Court of Appeal is vested with wide powers to issue writs according to law. I

will reproduce the judgment decided by the Appex Curt to understand the

duty cast on the official Respondent who need to continuously and vigilantly

resort to the available legal machinery i.e public and statutory duty vested by

statute.

In Environmental Foundation Ltd. and Others Vs. Mahaweli

Authority of Sri Lanka & Others 2010 (1) SLR 01

"In recent times Court has emphasized the applicability of the public trust doctrine to state

functionaries in the exercise of their powers.

The origins of public trust doctrine can be traced to Justinien's Institutes where it recognizes

three things common to mankind i.e. air, running water and sea (including shoes of the sea).

These common properly resources were held by the rulers in trusteeship for the free and

unimpeded use on the general public.

The applicability of the public trust doctrine was expressly recognized by the Supreme Court

of India in the case of M.e. Metha v Kamal Nath. (1997 1SSC 388). The Supreme Court of

California also too in the case of National Audubon Society v Superior Court of Alpine

Country (the Mono Lake Case) (33 ca. 3 d 419) summed up the doctrine as follows;

Thus the public trust is more than an affirmation of state power to use public property for

public purpose. It is an affirmation of duty of the state to protect the peoples common

! ! I

J

~ I I r

f I I ) I ! I I! ! I ! I i ! ! r II ! I I

11

heritage of streams, lakes, marshlands and tidelands, surrendering the rights only I those

rare cases when the abandonment of the right is consistent with the purposes of the trust'

Under Chapter IV of the constitution which deals with the directive prinCiples of State Policy

and fundamental duties in Article 27(14) it is state that lithe state shall protect, preserve

and improve the environment for the benefit of the community." Although it is expressly

declared in the constitution that the Directive Principals and fundamental duties do not

confer of impose legal right or obligations and are not enforceable in any Court or tribunal.

Court have linked the directive principles to the public trust doctrine and have stated that

these principles should guide state functionaries in the exercise of their powers (Vide

Sugathapala Mendis v Chandrika Kumaranatunga (Waters Edge Case) (SC FR 352/2007) and

Wattegedera Wijebanda v. Conservator General of Forest and Others (SC 188/2004)"

On the jurisdictional aspect of this court discussed in Heather

Therese Mundy Vs. Central Environmental Authority S.C 58/2003.

Per Fernando J.

"Before dealing with the Court of Appeal Judgment, it is necessary to consider the scope of

the writ jurisdiction - the basis and the grounds, on which executive acts and decisions may

be reviewed, as well as the Court's power and discretion in regard to relief - in the light of

several Constitutional provisions. Historically the writ jurisdiction had limitations, arising

from its linkage to the English 'prerogative' writs in regard to which it has been observed:

" ...... the development of administrative law remedies in the common law sphere proceeded

piecemeal from a variety of historical antecedents and, unto well into the (twentieth)

century, without any recognition of the character and needs of administrative justice as a

separate legal discipline. In fact, the main traditional remedies are classed as 'extraordinary

remedies' .... " (Friedman, Law in a Changing Society, 1959, P.403)

I i I III

f I II ! I I; r It I

~ I f ,

t !t ?

I I !

J

12

The jurisdiction conferred by Article 140, however, is not confined to "prerogative" writs, or

"extraordinary remedies", but extends - "subject to the provisions of the Constitution" - to

"orders in the nature of" writs of Certiorari, etc. Taken in the context of our Constitutional

principles and provisions, these "orders" constitute one of the principle safeguards against

excess and abuse of executive power: mandating the judiciary to defend the Sovereignty of

the People enshrined in Article 3 against infringement or encroachment by the Executive,

with no trace of any defence due to the Crown and its agents. Further, this Court itself has

long recognized and applied the "public trust" doctrine: that the powers vested in public

authorities are not absolute or unfettered but are held in trust for the public, to be

exercised for the purposes for which they have been conferred, and that their exercise is

subject to judicial review by reference to those purposes (see de Silva v. Atukorale, (1993) 1

Sri lR 283, 296-297; Jayawadene v. Wijayatilake, (2001) 1 Sri lR 132, 149, 159; Bandara v.

Premachandra, (1994) 1 Sri lR 301, 312); and that doctrine extends to national and natural

resources (such as the air-waves, Fernando v. SlBC, (1996) 1 Sri lR 157, 172 and mineral

deposits, Bulankulame v. Secretary Ministry of Industrial Development, (2000) 3 Sri lR 243,

256-257). Besides, executive power is also necessarily - subject to the fundamental rights in

general, and to Article 12(1} in particular which guarantees equality before the law and the

equal protection of the law. For the purposes of the appeals now under consideration, the

"protection of the law" would include the right to notice and to be heard. Administrative

acts and decisions contrary to the "public trust" doctrine and/or violative of fundamental

rights would be in excess or abuse of power, and therefore void or voidable. The link

between the writ jurisdiction and fundamental rights is also apparent from Article 126(3} -

see Perera v. Edirisinghe, (1995) 1 Sri lR 148, 156 - which contemplates that evidence of an

infringement of fundamental right may properly arise in the course of hearing a writ

application, whereupon such application must be referred to this Court which may grant

such relief or make such directions as it may deem just and equitable. Thus, although this

Court would still be exercising the writ jurisdiction, its powers of review and relief would

not be confined to old "prerogative" writs. These Constitutional prinCiples and provisions

have shrunk the area of administrative discretion and immunity, and are correspondingly

I !

I· 13

expanded the nature and scope of the public duties amendable to Mandamus and the

categories of wrongful acts and decisions subject to Certiorari and Prohibition, as well as the

scope of judicial review and relief." .................... .

"Did the Court of Appeal err in refusing relief in the exercise of its discretion? Although the

Court of Appeal seemed to agree that the rights of the Appellants had been infringed, that

their sacrifice had not been duly recognized, and that the Court should minimize as much as

possible the effect on their rights, nevertheless it felt obliged to choose between two

options only: to grant relief or to dismiss the applications. The Court did not take note of

the impact of the fundamental rights on its writ jurisdiction. While the circumstances were

such that the Court could reasonably have concluded that, on balance, the Final Trace

should be left undisturbed, one of the major considerations was cost - as well as delay,

which also involved cost. If a judicial discretion was exercised in favour of the State, inter

alia, t save costs, it was only equitable that the Appellants should have been compensated

for the injury to their rights. Had the matter been referred to this Court under Article

126(3), the Appellants would have been held entitled to compensation in lieu of further

Environmental Impact Assessment procedures. That jurisdiction is an equitable one, and

since equity regards as done that which ought to have been done, the matter must now be

dealt with as if it had been duly referred to this Court. If it is permissible in the exercise of a

judicial discretion to require a humble villager to forego his right to a fair procedure before

he is compelled to sacrifice a modest plot of land and a little but because they are of

"extremely negligible" value in relation to a multi-billion rupee national project, it is

nevertheless not equitable to disregard totally the infringement of his rights: the smaller

the value of his property, the greater his right to compensation,"

When I compare the gist of the material suggested by the official

Respondents, what could be gathered is that 1st & 2

nd Respondents merely

want to show that they are doing the correct and legally acceptable acts as per

14

their regulations. The explanations provided is just the bare minimum. The 3rd

Respondent whilst emphasizing on a 'development area' as per the statute

governing the 3rd Respondent attempt to show that they have informed

persons engaged in unlawful and unauthorized filling of earth etc. in low lying,

marshy land, to desist in doing such acts. There again no proper acceptable

explanation or details are forthcoming by their objections. Only the 4th

Respondent has acted and shown some responsibility on their part by referring

to a case of illegal construction. However what other statutory steps taken in

regard to illegal construction is a question unknown to this court. The 5th & 6th

Respondents display their callous attitude by not providing any material to

court by way of filing objections. Is it their position that they concede to the

several averments of the Petitioners? What steps taken by 5

th & 6

th

Respondents as per the governing law of our country, is unknown to court?

There is no doubt a public/statutory duty need to be performed by

all the official Respondents to this application. Each of those Respondents are

statutorily obliged to safe guard the interest of the state and the civil society.

Article 27(14) of the Constitution has made specific provisions for the state to

protect, preserve and improve the environment for the benefit of the

community. Further a fundamental duty is imposed as per Article 28(F) of the

15

Constitution to protect nature and conserve its riches. The above provisions of

the Constitution along with other provisions of statutes governing the official

Respondent to the application provide all such details and the required state

machinery to preserve and act according to law to safe guard the larger

interest of the community, as demonstrated by the Petitioners. Further a duty

is owed to the community and the Petitioners by all the official Respondents.

The official Respondents in the context of this application and in terms of all

the circumstances of this case do not display and demonstrate that they have

fulfilled all the required statutory steps. Court could observe the lethargic

attitude, indifference to official duty and non observance of the statutory

scheme, on the part of the official Respondents. The Bolgoda lake and its lake

system covers a large area. To preserve its environment, a constant,

i continuous vigilance on the part of officials would be essential. I The Appex Court having developed the 'public trust' doctrine, need to be l

adopted respected and fulfill such doctrine which is part of law of our country.

Further the Survey General's plans Pi & P2 indicates illegal encroachments.

What have the officials done and have they provided this court with adequate

material with cogent reasons to enable court to arrive at a reasonable

decision.

f.

-

16

In all these circumstances I would allow the application of the

Petitioners as regards a Writ of Mandamus in so far as the 3rd & 4th & 5th

Respondents as per sub paras (c L (d) & (e) of the prayer to the petition. The

3rd & 4th Respondents being a body corporate, in terms of the statute

governing these organization could sue and be sued. The Chairman and the

Board of Directors and/or the General Manager of the Corporation and the

Authority itself need to take the responsibility and initiate action accordingly.

5th Respondent has been named and captioned amended (1st February 2012). I

also direct the Registrar of this court to forward a copy of this Judgment to the

Hon. Attorney General.

Appeal allowed.

I i I I

J I I t r I t

i ! i

\

! ,