==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A.Appeal No.926/99 D.C.Mount Lavinia 17/92/P

W.David De Kosta (deceased) No: 08/06, Kosta Mawatha, Kalubowila, Dehiwala. And 02 other

Appellants Vs. D.D. Somapala Wijesinghe No: 51/1, Siddhartha Lane, Aththidiya Mawatha, Wattala.

Respondent

C.A.Appeal No.926/99 D.C.Mount Lavinia 17/92/P

Before

Counsel

Argued& Decided on

A.W.A.Salam, I

A.W.A.Salam, J. Sunil Rajapakse, J

Ian Fernando and Keerthi Sri Gunawardena for the 1st Defendant-Appellant.

Respondent is absent and unrepresented.

19.03.2013

The appellants have filed the present appeal against the judgment of the

learned District Judge dated 29.01.1999 dismissing the plaintiff's action to

partition the land. In the same judgment the learned District Judge has answered

certain points of contest relating to the prescriptive rights of parties in the

affirmative. As far as the plaintiff's version is concerned the land sought to be

partition is described in the schedule to the plaint and the corpus is depicted in

plan No.38 dated 09.09.1993 made by G. Saranasena, Licensed Surveyor and

Commissioner. This plan has been produced marked as X without any objection

raised by the parties to the case. Further, at the commencement of the trial an

admission has been recorded as regard the corpus depicted in the said plan.

Admission recorded on 27.03.1997 deals with the identity of the corpus.

Admission Nos.2, 3 recorded on the same day is to the effect that the person

mentioned in the plaint as the original owner in fact was the person who

originally owned the land and that his rights devolved on the parties as pleaded

in paragraph 1-8 of the plaint. In the course of trial on 10.03.1998 5, 6, 9, 10 and

11 defendants made a further admission admitting paragraph 17 and 18 of the

plaint. These defendants once again re-iterated the admission of paragraph 1-8

of the plaint on that date. Learned Counsel for the appellants submitted that in

the midst of the admission learned District Judge could not have possibly come

to the conclusion that certain defendants to whom rights have been shown by

the plaint and who have admitted the devolution of title as aforesaid are not

entitled to in law to acquire a prescriptive title to the divided portions they

claimed.

The learned District Judge in his judgment has never addressed his mind

to the clear admissions made by the parties at the commencement of the trial and

thereafter as to the eo-ownership of the property held by the respective parties.

Remarkable omission in the judgment is that the learned District Judge has not

adverted his mind to the principle that cogent evidence is required to establish

prescription among eo-owners and in that it is indispensable that there should be

evidence of ouster or something equivalent to ouster by an overt act. There has

been no evidence led at the trial or any reference made in the judgment to any

cogent evidence being led on the question of prescription or evidence relating to

ouster by an overfed act. It has been pointed out over and over again that it is

the solemn duty of the learned District Judge to investigate the title of the parties

specially with regard to claim of prescription among eo-owners as required in

terms of Section 3 of the Prescription Ordinance. The learned District Judge has

obviously failed to investigate the title on the question of prescription as required

by law. In the circumstances I am of the opinion that the impugned judgment

should not be allowed to remain and cries out for the intervention of Court by

way of appellate jurisdiction. As failure on the part of the learned District Judge

to appreciate the cardinal principle relating to prescription among eo-owners and

for his failure to give due effect to the admissions made by the parties , the

impugned judgment is set aside and the case is sent back for re-trial.

Since the impugned judgment has been set aside by reason of mis-

direction on the part of the learned District Judge I do not see any reason to

impose costs. Therefore I make order that the appellant is not entitled to costs.

Sunil Rajapakse, I

I agree.

KLP/-

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL