==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA 189/2012 High Court (Embilipitiya) H.C.E.54/2010

R. Saman No: 71, Hospital Road, New City, Embilipitiya. Aruna Indika Hettiarachchi No: 30, Koul Ara North, Sewanagala.

Appellants Vs. Hon. Attorney General Attorney General’s Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

J 1 J

I 1

High Court (Embilipitiya) H.C.E.54/2010 CA189/2012

Before Sisira J. De Abrew, J

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J

Counsel Dr. Ranjith Fernando for the Accused-

Appellant.

Sarath Jayamanne DSG for the AG

Argued &

Decided on 06.11.2013.

Sisira J. De Abrew, J

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases. Learned counsel

for the accused - appellant brings to the notice of this court that the

learned trial judge has not complied with section 195(e e) of the Criminal

Procedure Code. Sarath Jayamanne DSG confirms this position. He

submits that he went through the original case record and his

departmental file but did not find any indication to state that the learned

trial judge had complied with section 195(e e) of the Criminal Procedure

Code. We have perused the original record and find nothing to indicate

that the learned trial judge had complied with section 195 (e e) of the

Criminal Procedure Code. Two accused in this case were charged with the

~offence of rape. The victim y, according to the medico legal report, is 37

years old at the time of this incident. The learned trial judge has to

I

I

I ,

,

comply with section 195(e e) of the Criminal Procedure Code. In these

circumstances, we have no alternative but to order a re trial. We set aside

the conviction and the sentence imposed on both accused appellants and

order a re-trial. At the new trial learned trial judge must take steps to

comply with section 195(e e) of the Criminal Procedure Code and he must

also take steps to conclude this case as early as possible.

Re-trial ordered.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J

I agreed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Naj-