==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

c.A. No. CA/SOS/92(F)

.. \, in the matter of an application made in terms of Sec. 760-A of civil procedure Code for substitution.

(Deceased) (Deceased

(Deceased)

1. Hikkaduwa Edmond Silva 2. Don Pilip Jayaranjan Weerasinghe 6th & 7 a Defendants - Appellants Vs.

1. Sangama Ariyaratne 2. M. PaUiyaguruge Dayawathie And

1 a. Hewa Hunuge Aggie 2a. Hewa Hunuge Aggie 3a. Welitharage Samson 4.Hikkaduwage Agilin Nona 5.Hikkaduwage Lional Warnathilake S.Hikkaduwage Gratien De Silva 9.Hikkaduwage Mervyn de Silva 10. Hikkaduwage Ananda Silva 11. Rambukakanage Piyasiri Fernando 12.Rambukkanage Desina Silva 13.Lankapurage Baby 14.Lankapurage Darlis Defendant - Respondent Don Dilip Jayaranjan Weerasinghe No. 89, Wselilitimodera, Qinthota Substituted 7a Defendant - Appellans - Petitioner

Vs 5A 1. Hikkaduwage Padma Iranganie BI 19-2-3, Maligawatta Flats, Colombo 10. 5B 2. Lankapurage Dharmawthie, Welipiti Modera, Ginthota.

Respondent Lankapurage Darlies of "Samansiri" Puhulduwa Watta Estate, Ganegama, Baddegama. 14th Defendant - Respondent-Respondent

Counsel: P Nanayakkara with T Alahakone for

6th and i h Defendants/Appellants.

Hirumuthugoda for the

4 th DefendantlRespondent.

C. Morawaka for 1 st 2nd Plaintiffs/Respondents.

Before: Rohini Marasinghe J

Written Submissions: 25-11-2011.

Judgment: 29-04-2011

2

had 6 children namely, Suba,Aba, Pi la, Jangiya, and Sancho. The i

h defendant

appellant claimed title through one Omnis silva. According to the appellants

said Omnis silva was a son of Podihamy who purchased the title referred to in

6V1.

At the trial the 1st plaintiff (respondent) had given evidence. He had marked

the deeds P1 to P30 in support of his title. The 7the defendant/appellant had

given evidence and marked 6V1 to 6V4 in support of his claim.

After the trial the learned trial judge had accepted the pedigree of the

respondents. The partition of the land was ordered accordingly and the

Interlocutory Order had been made. The 6th and the ih defendants have

appealed against that judgment.

According to the evidence led at the trial the respondents had established that

the original owner Thino had died intestate and her share had devolved on her

children Thino and Andiris. The learned trial judge had examined the title

deeds of the respondents. It is not necessary for the trial judge to comment on

2

3

every deed and recite the title as contained in the deeds. It is sufficient for the

trial judge to examine the deed and be satisfied that the said deeds have duly

conveyed the title to the land in question to the parties mentioned therein.

This the trial judge had adequately done in this case. He had stated that the

deeds of the respondents were consistent with the evidence of the

respondents. But the trial judge had not been satisfied with the deeds and also

the oral evidence of the th defendant appellant who had given evidence on

behalf of the appellants. The t h defendant appellant had attempted to claim a

prescriptive title to the land. The appellant had stated in evidence that

predecessors in title were in possession of this land. In support of this version

he had stated that his father had told him to accept whatever benefits from

the land Babun hamy may give as she was his father's sister and was in

possession of the land in issue. The trial judge had dismissed that claim of the

appellant and had stated that it was not possible to accept the evidence of the

appellant due to the fact that the evidence had disclosed that the appellant

was living somewhat distantly from the land in issue. The learned trial judge

had further held that his evidence was not consistent with the deeds he had

tendered in evidence. Therefore, the learned trial judge had not been able to

accept the deeds submitted by the appellants. The trial judge had given cogent

3

4

reasons for this determination. Both parties had placed their respective cases

before the trial judge. The trial judge who had examined both the oral and the

documentary evidence of both parties had been satisfied with the oral and

documentary evidence of the appellant. The appellants had not been able to

establish to this court that the learned trial judge had misdirected himself and

come to a wrong conclusion on any matter that was placed before him. It is

not correct for the appellant to submit that the learned trial had not

investigated the title of the parties. The appellant had further submitted that

the respondent was not within the pedigree as he had not inherited the rights

but had become entitled to a share by purchase. The appellants claimed title to

the land from the deed bearing number 1049 dated 27-3-1980. All these

deeds have been examined by the trial judge before accepting the pedigree of

the respondents.

I see no reason to interfere with the decision of the trial judge. The appeal is

dism~

Rohini Marasinghe J

Judge of the court of Appeal.

4