==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 15/2009 (Writ)

1.

2.

3.

4.

Sri Lanka Telecom PLC

Lotus Road,

Colombo 1.

PETITIONER

Vs.

Hon. Gamini Lokuge

Minister of Labour Relations and

Productivity Improvement

2nd Floor, Labour Secretariat,

Narahenpita, Colombo 5.

Commissioner of Labour

Department of Labour,

Labour Secretariat, Colombo 5.

V. Vimalarajah

Arbitrator

B. S. 2/6, Manning Town Flats,

Colombo 8.

M. F. M. lkram

No. 285, Akbar Town,

Wattala.

RESPONDENTS

1

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERATNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J. &

H. N. J. Perera J.

C. Unamboowa with N. Sirimanne for the Petitioner

M. Maharoof with Path urn Wickremaratne for 4th Respondent

Uresha Fernando S.C. for 1st & 2nd Respondents

05.02.2013

06.05.2013

2

This is an application by the Petitioner company, Sri Lanka Telecom

PLC for a Mandate in the nature of Writ of Certiorari to quash the reference (Pll}

made by the 1st Respondent, Minister of Labour Relations and Foreign

Employment, to the 3rd Respondent the Arbitrator, in terms of Section 4(1} of the

Industrial Disputes Act, and to quash the arbitration award marked P17, as

contained in the Government Gazette No. 1576/2 of 17.11.2008. In the body of

the petition it is pleaded that the Petitioner company pursuant to privatization, in

collaboration with a Japanese Corporation in 1997, resulted in establishing

'Teleshops'. This is one of the features of the Marketing Division of the Company,

and some of the existing staff of the Petitioner company had been recruited to

'teleshops' and accordingly the 4th Respondent was assigned limited duties and

3

functioned as a 'Teleshop Manager' and transferred to the 'Teleshop' of the

World Trade Centre. The 4th Respondent prior to his transfer as aforesaid was

initially appointed to the company as a Computer Programmer which was a non

executive grade (letter of appointment produced marked P3a).

The position of those employees transferred to Teleshops as

maintained by learned counsel for Petitioner and as pleaded was that such a

transfer to a teleshop is not a promotion or an appointment but a transfer which

provided opportunities to its employees to work at higher levels to explore the

efficiency and suitability of employees and it was done on a trial basis in the

manner pleaded in paragraphs 7 -9 of the petition and the corresponding

affidavit filed of record. The letter transferring the 4th Respondent as aforesaid is

marked P4.

The case of the Petitioner as presented to this court is that the 4th

Respondent never held an executive posts in the Petitioner company and no

letter of appointment issued when he was transferred as Teleshop Manager as

aforesaid. lt was submitted that transfer by letter P4 as Teleshop Manager does

not confer an executive post. The scheme of recruitment is produced marked PS.

Petitioner functioned as Teleshop Manager from January 1999 to 2001 {3 years)

and was paid the salary of his substantive post as Computer Programmer under

salary scale '82'. The 4th Respondent had never complained to the Petitioner

company until December 2001 ((P8) and A13 in the proceeding refer 4 Arbitrator))

regarding non-payment of salary commensurate to the post he held as Manager

Teleshop. After 4th Respondent resigned from service on or about 14.6.2004 he

complained to the 2nd Respondent that the Petitioner has failed to pay the salary

commensurate to the post from January 1999 to February 2003.

4

The disputes between the two parties and that referred to

Arbitration (also included in beginning of the award P17) reads thus:

"Whether Mr. M.F.M. lkram, who was in the service of Sri Lanka Telecom

Limited, is entitled to receive 2/3 of the salary of the post for which he

attended duties in addition to the salary in his substantive post during the

period from January 1999 to February 2003 in terms of the Rules and

Regulations for Personnel administration of the company and if not, to

what relief is he entitled?"

I would refer to the matters urged by the Petitioner before

considering the award (P17) of the 3rd Respondent. Petitioner emphasis that the

4th Respondent applied for the post of Manager of a Teleshop although he did not

have the period of 10 years service required for the post and was selected to fill

one of the vacancies. He commenced duties at the World Trade Centre on

26.1.1999. As regards the errors of law in the award (P17) the Petitioner takes up

the position that the learned Arbitrator exceeded his mandate and went beyond

the mandate and had taken into consideration irrelevant matters. The focus on

this aspect is on the issues at

16' of P17 and more particularly issue Nos. (i) & (ii). lt

read as follows:

(i) Was the workman given an appointment as Teleshop Manager or was he given an

assignment on travel basis.

(ii) Was the workman in Executive grade?

lt is the position of the Petitioner that (i) & (ii) are outside the terms of

reference and also it is in conflict with the terms of references. Learned counsel

for Petitioner argues that the basis of reference is that the workman attended to

5

the duties of the post of Teleshop Manager, and the matter in dispute is whether

the 4th Respondent is "entitled to receive 2/3rd of the salary of the post for which

4th Respondent attended to duties. Inquiry need to proceed on the basis that the

4th Respondent attended to the duties only of a Manager of a Teleshop. Learned

counsel states that whether the workman was appointed, or assigned to the post,

or whether 4th Respondent was acting in the post, was outside the scope of

reference. This court observes that there is some merit in this argument. If one

strictly construe the terms of reference the focus and emphasis is more on receipt

or entitlement of 2/3rd of salary for the post which 4th Respondent attended to

duties, and not on the substantive appointment or an acting appointment, as

determined in issue No. {1).

lt appears to this court that the Arbitrator seems to have

misunderstood the basis of establishing teleshops and the initial recruitment

procedure/ qualifications, required for the post.

On the issue (ii) whether the 4th Respondent was in an executive

grade the argument of the Petitioner is that according to the rules and regulations

produced by the 4th Respondent marked A17 (PG) and pg. 9 of same gives the

details of grading of employees. The executive grades are categorized from grade

'A special' to A6 and technical grades from Bl to B4. Petitioners witness in

evidence (Soysa) explained the system of grading, which evidence had not been

disputed. The 4th Respondent was in grade B2 which was a Computer

Programmer. Petitioner states that the workman was in Grade B2 and grade not

revised. B2 according to A17 is not an Executive Grade.

The Petitioner has also drawn the attention of this court to certain

items of evidence, which need to be noted.

6

A.N.N. de Soysa's evidence (Petitioner witness) in reply to a question

by the Arbitrator (pg. 150) was that the 4th Respondent was a B2 Grade Computer

Programmer. The 4th Respondent admit this by letter A12- pg x/32 "since I joined

SLT in July 1993 as a Computer Programmer Class I (B2) my grade was not revised

... neither the salary nor my grade was revised". As such Arbitrator's findings that

the 4th Respondent is in an executive grade is not supported by evidence.

The question is not the post held or the so called Executive Grade but

whether the workman (4th Respondent) would be entitled to additional payment

since he was performing the duties of a Teleshop Manager.

There was much emphasis placed by learned counsel for Petitioner

on document R7 which oral and documentary evidence was rejected by the

learned Arbitrator.

A.N.N. De Soysa produced document R7 the scheme of recruitment

for Non-Executives in the Petitioner Company. Witness marked and produced the

index of the scheme of recruitment as R7a. At pg. 115 the witness testified that

Teleshop Managers are Non-Executives. I would incorporate the following

questions and answers to follow the sequence.

Q: Are Teleshop Managers referred to in this Index?

A: Yes

Q: Under what Item?

A: 70, 71, 72, 73 and 74.

Q: These refer to Manager Teleshop Higher grade to Assistant Manage Teleshop grade2?

A: Yes.

Q: So therefore workman's position has right through been a non executive position?

A: yes

Q: Do you have a stipulated approved scheme of promotion applicable to the executive grade?

A: Yes. There is a separate scheme.

7

One of the main complaints of the Petitioner is the Arbitrator's ruling

to reject document marked R7. Petitioner complaints that Arbitrator was duty

bound to call for the document marked R7 in its entirety if an incomplete

document had been tendered. In this regard learned counsel for the Petitioner

draws the attention of this court to Section 17(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act.

The said section reads thus:

An Arbitrator .... shall make all such inquiries into the dispute as he may

consider necessary, hear such evidence as may be tendered by the parties

to the dispute and thereafter make such award as may appear to him just

and equitable.

This section makes it mandatory for the arbitrator to have considered

the evidence placed before him. Accordingly, he should have considered the

evidence relating to R7 at pages 114 and 115 quoted above, Had he done so, he

would necessarily have had to call for the documents R7 and R7(a) if he found

that they had not been filed in the record. His failure to do so is a grave error of

law which resulted in his Award not being a just and equitable award.

There is also criticism leveled against the Arbitrator in accepting and

relying on document A4 & A6. This court will consider all above to ascertain

whether in fact there is an error of law on the face of the record since a court of

law should not and cannot change the real nature and structure of any

organization as regards policy decisions of the organization. This court also need

to consider the method adopted to make payments to 4th Respondent.

8

The learned counsel for 4th Respondent on the other hand supported

the order of the learned Arbitrator, and submitted that Petitioner's documents

were not put in cross-examination and documents were not proved. Learned

counsel referred to letter AS (P4) which is the appointment letter which designate

the 4th Respondent as Manager. lt was one of the contentions of the 4th

Respondent that documents were not produced. Learned counsel for 4th

Respondent also contended that some of the documents tendered by the

Respondent had not been signed, (R9 - R15 not proved and not signed). lt was

the position of the 4th Respondent that it was not merely a transfer but the 4th

Respondent was appointed as Manager, which post was a merely created post.

Attention of this court was drawn to documents A7 to A 10(a) to indicate as to

how the 4th Respondent was identified as Manager. To meet the argument of the

Petitioner that the 4th Respondent lacked the minimum qualification learned

counsel referred to in Clause 7S(ii) of document A17. lt was his position that in

terms of the above clause the 4th Respondent is entitled to receive 2/3rd

additional remuneration.

This court observes that Sections 4(1) and 17(1) of the Industrial

Disputes Act, gives and lends the Arbitrator certain statutory recognition and

powers to make such just and equitable orders. That would not mean that the

Arbitrator could go beyond the scope and ambit of the terms of reference for

Arbitration and make an order in the manner he pleases. The terms of reference

require the Arbitrator to only decide whether the 4th Respondent would be

entitled to receive 2/3rd of the salary of the post for which he attended duties. lt

was not within the powers of the Arbitrator to decide whether the 4th Respondent

was in an executive grade (issue ii) and the question of the 4th Respondent being

9

appointed as Teleshop Manager (issue i). Reference to Arbitration only deal with

certain monetary gains payable to the 4th Respondent. The award indicates that

the learned Arbitrator has on a mere reading of letter AS, the Arbitrator

concludes that the 4th Respondent was given an appointment as Teleshop

Manager. In the process the Arbitrator draws further conclusion by certain other

material namely documents A7 to A10.

Even if the learned Arbitrator in the process had to consider the

question of 'Manager' there is no parallel document or any other document as

visiting card, identity and (from the Petitioner Company), extract from telephone

directory and newsletters which establish with certainty the post Manager

although these documents refer to the 4th Respondent as Manager. There is no

absolute conclusiveness in the above documents to arrive at a conclusion as thus

arrived by the learned Arbitrator. If at all the above said documents would be a

mere notification to the public and nothing more. The learned Arbitrators

emphasis in the award by referring to A7 to A10 ruling that 4th Respondent is a

Manager in Executive Grade is a grave error of law, on the face of the record,

since it was beyond his scope to come to such a finding and grant pecuniary

benefits. On this aspect we are in agreement with the submissions of the

Petitioner that where the Petitioner inter alia submitted that workman was in an

acting post or assigned to the post or appointed to the post are acts are outside

the scope of Arbitration, and the submissions which relate to the question that

the 4th Respondent never held an executive post based on evidence. In arriving at

this finding we gather support from the following authorities.

Ceylon Tea Plantation Co. Ltd. Vs. Ceylon Estate Staff Union SC 211/72 S.C

minutes 15.5.1974.

10

A just and equitable order must be fair by all the parties. lt never means the

safe guarding of the interest of the workmen alone.

Again in the case of Municipal Council Colombo Vs. Munasinghe 71 NLR pg. 223 at

225 per H.N.G. Fernando J.

"I hold that when the Industrial Disputes Act confers on an Arbitrator the discretion to

make an award which is 'just and equitable', the Legislature did not intend to confer on

an Arbitrator the freedom of a wild-horse. An award must be 'just and equitable' as

between the parties to a dispute; and the fact that one party might have encountered

'hard times' because of personal circumstances for which the other party is in no way

responsible is not a ground on which justice or equity requires the other party to make

undue concessions. In addition, it is time that this Court should correct what seems to

be a prevalent misconception. The mandate which the Arbitrator in an industrial dispute

holds under the law require him to make an award which is just and equitable, and not

necessarily an award which favour an employee. An Arbitrator holds no licence from the

Legislature to make any such award as he may please, for nothing is just and equitable

which is decided by him or caprice or by the toss of a double-headed coin."

Walkers and sons Vs. Fry 68 NLR 73 at 99 His Lordship the Chief Justice H.N.G.

Fernando, SPJ as he then was observed:

"In requiring "just and equitable" orders to be made by Labour Tribunals, does not allow

to such a Tribunal or the Arbitrator the freedom of the 'wild-ass' in making its orders"

The other important issue highlighted by the Petitioner is the

rejection of document R7 by the learned Arbitrator. The award P17 suggest that

the document R7 tendered to the learned Arbitrator is an incomplete document.

In paragraph 3 of the Award the Arbitrator gives certain reasons to shut out

document R7 & R7(a).

11

lt is evident from the Arbitration proceedings that the Petitioners

witness had been cross examined on document R7, and entirety of R7 was

available for cross examination. In evidence it has transpired regarding the

scheme of recruitment and promotion for the non-executive grade category. 4th

Respondent by his own evidence admitted that he is in grade B2 (according to

A17) which is a Technical Grade and not an Executive Grade. Witness of the

Petitioner Company testified that front page of R7 states scheme of recruitment

and promotion for Non-Executive grades. The cover page shows the title very

clearly.

There is a duty cast in terms of Section 17 A of the Industrial Disputes

Act to make all such inquiries and pronounce a just and equitable order. Duty is

on the Arbitrator in terms of the statute and call for all necessary documents and

satisfy himself. He cannot reject a document placed by way of evidence which

was used in cross-examination or in examination in chief, when evidence had

transpired on the contents of documents. This is another grave error. In State

Bank of India Vs. Edirisinghe 1987 (1) SLR 395 at 420,

Where the arbitrator had made an award acting on the contents of one document

alone, ignoring other documents which explained the application of the earlier

mentioned document and which represented the general policy of the Bank for the

revision of salaries of its nationals, the Court quashed the award for revision of salary on

the basis that it was not within the purview of the arbitrator to reject the said general

policy. Similarly, in the instant case, it is submitted that it is not within the purview of

the 3rd respondent to shut out R7 and R7(a) and thereby reject the policy of the

petitioner company in respect of the promotion and recruitment of non-executives.

We have also noted the items of evidence which was not subject to

any change or verification on the receipt of salary of the 4th Respondent. The

12

witness for the Petitioner Company M/s. Soysa categorically stated that Teleshop

Manager in which the 4th Respondent attended to duties is not an Executive post.

This witness stated that the Applicant was paid 20% of his basic salary as an

allowance for performing his duties of teleshop Manager. Witness also stated that

the 4th Respondent and other Non-Executive in Teleshop were also paid over-time

payments for additional work. Even the 4th Respondent in his evidence accepted

the position that he was paid over time and 20% of his basic salary. The learned

Arbitrator does not seem to have considered the oral testimony of the above

witness, who had not been contradicted on material points, supported by the 4th

Respondent's own oral testimony.

The learned Arbitrator has based his award on payments reflected in

document A17 {Manual of Rules & Regulations for Personal Administrator of Sri

Lanka Telecom Ltd). Reference is made in the award to Clause 7 more particular

7(b) (i) and 7{b) (ii)

The above reads thus:

7(b) Acting appointments in executive positions

(i) An employee will be appointed to act in a post which is vacant, if a

qualified and suitable person is not available to fill the vacancy created.

He will be paid 1/4th of the initial salary of the acting post in addition to

his salary in substantive post. Such appointment should be approved by

the CEO or CAQ.

(ii) If the employee who is to be appointed to act in a superior post does

not have the minimum qualification stipulated to the acting post he

should be appointed to "attend to the duties" of the post. He will be

13

paid 2/3 of the additional remuneration he will receive had he been

appointed to act in the post. Such appointment should approved by the

CEO or CAO.

lt is very clear that the above applies to acting appointments in

executive posts. This Clause cannot have any application at all. Teleshop Manager

is not an Executive post. Further, if it is arguable that the 4th Respondent was

attending to duties in a Superior post a careful reading of 7(b) (ii) above he could

only be paid 2/3rd of X of the initial salary. Never can he be paid 2/3rd of the salary

of the post in which he was attending to duties.

lt is evident that the learned Arbitrator has gone beyond the terms of

reference. He has failed to confines its adjudication to the points of dispute

referred to him. The learned Arbitrator has misconstrued documents and his

award need to be quashed. The rules and regulations made available suggests

that any appointment to a substantive post in an acting capacity or in case of

attending to duties have to be approved by the Chief Executive Officer of the

Petitioner Company. The award has not considered the 20% additional payment

which was paid to the 4th Respondent along with overtime payments. The 4th

Respondent also lacked the required 10 years experience. As such the Petitioner

Company provided an opportunity to excel in his (4th Respondent) position on a

trial basis. lt was on that footing that employees in the Company were absorbed

as Teleshop Managers. The award of the 3rd Respondent cannot be considered a

just and equitable order and it cannot be an award that merely favour the

employee disregarding and misunderstanding the prevalent rules and regulations

of the company. We are not inclined to affirm the award (P17). As such having

'

14

considered all the facts and circumstances we allow this application and direct the ' issuance of the Writ of Certiorari in terms of sub paragraph © of the prayer to the

petition without costs.

Application allowed.

H. N. J. Perera J.

I agree.

... o G l) ~ ._v ...QJ~. ~ r--" E OF THE CQtJRT OF APPEAL