==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A Application No.65/1998 (F)

Karunamuni Samson De Silva Nagoda, Kalutara.

Plaintiff Vs. Sandaradura lndralath Kandapansala Road, Mahawaskaduwa, Waskaduwa. Karunamuni Disna Kusumawathie De Silva Mahawaskaduwa Waskaduwa Arumadura Nandawathie Wijayatilake No.128, Galle Road, North Kalutara. Seekku Arachchige Milis Wijayatilake, No.128, Galle Road, North Kalutara. Arumadura Suwineetha Kalani Wijayatilake No.128, Galle Road, North Kalutara. And Others

Respondents

," .

C.A. No:65/98(F)

BEFORE

COUSEL

ARGUED &

D.C. Kalutara Case No:4746/P

K.T. CHITRASIRI, J.

1 st and 7th Defendant-Appellants are absent and unrepresented.

15th Defendant-Respondent is present in Court.

Other Respondents are absent and unrepresented.

DECIDED ON 17.06.2014.

K. T. CHITRASIRI, J.

The Supreme Court by its order dated 17.03.2014 has directed

this Court to issue notices on all the parties and to have the substitutions

effected in place of the deceased parties. Accordingly, this Court has sent

notices on all the parties and their registered attorneys under registered

cover informing them to be present in this Court today. However, only the

15th defendant-respondent is present in Court. The notices sent to the 2nd,

9th, 10th, 11a, 13a, 13b, 13c and 14th defendant-respondents have been

returned with the endorsement that the given address is insufficient. The

notice sent to the 9th defendant-respondent also has been returned with the

endorsement that the addressee is not known. The notice sent to the 11th

defendant-respondent also has been returned with the endorsement that the

address is insufficient. The notice sent to the attorney for the 2nd

defendant-respondent also has been returned with the endorsement that he

is not traceable.

The appellants are the 1 st and 7th defendants. They are not

present in Court despite that the notices sent to the 1st and 7th defendant-

appellants have not been returned. Those notices have been sent to the

addresses given in the petition of appeal. Accordingly, it is seen that the

i

t

f iI

}I

appellants are not taking steps to effect the substitution as directed by the

Supreme Court. In the circumstances, Court makes order abating the

appeal.

Appeal is abated.

DG OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

TW

\! Ii