==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

1. Rajapaksha Sumanawathi

Naramana, Padeniya.

2. Rajapaksha Pedige Kamalawathie

Naramana, Padeniya.

PETITIONERS

CA. 291/2009 (Writ)

Vs.

1. The Divisional Secretary

Divisional Secretariat

Wariyapola.

2. Provincial Commissioner of Lands

Provincial Commissioner's Office

Kurunegala.

3. The Commissioner General of Lands

No.7, Gregory's Avenue,

Colombo 7.

4. R. P. Ariyaratne

Naramana, Padeniya

5. Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department.

Colombo 12.

RESPONDENTS

· ,

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERATNE J.

Ani! Gooneratne J. &

Deepali Wijesundera J.

W. Dayaratne P.C, R. Jayawardena with D. Dayaratne for the Petitioner

A. Samaranayake S.S.C for 1st to 3rd & 5th Respondents

24.07.2013

30.10.2013

2

The two Petitioners to this application have sought Writs of Certiorari

and Mandamus to quash the decision in letter X17 and permit lRl and to compel

the 1st Respondent to issue a permit or a deed of disposition to the two

Petitioners in terms of the Land Development Ordinance. It is the case of the

Petitioners that their father R.P. Koranelis was the original permit holder (Xl) in

terms of the Land Development Ordinance. The father of the Petitioners

nominated his wife Premawathie, as successor but she predeceased him prior to

his death (X2). However Koranelis executed a last will on 2.3.2003 in respect of

the subject matter and the two Petitioners became the beneficiaries. Petitioners

3

have produced the last will (X3), Death Certificates X4 & X5, the Birth Certificate

X6, in- support of their Ease.

It is stated that upon the death of 'Koranelis' a testamentary case

had been filed to prove the last will. The order at X9 of the learned District Judge

inter alia state that probate granted to Sumanawathie (1st Petitioner) and to

exclude the subject matter from the estate of Koranelis. The trial Judge also state

in his order that subject matter of the case is a permit issued under the Land

Development Ordinance and it is State Land. It appears to this court that the land

being excluded from the testamentary case led the 4th Respondent. (eldest son of

Koranelis) to assert his position and complain to the 1st Respondent on the basis

of the line of succession for issuance of permits under the Land Development

Ordinance. The material placed before court indicates that an inquiry was held

based on 4th Respondent's complaint. The inquiry was held by the 2nd Respondent

and all the children of the deceased were called for an inquiry. Petitioner state

that at the inquiry all concerned, other than the 4th Respondent participated at

the inquiry and all others agreed to alienate the land in dispute to the Petitioners.

Petitioner state that by letter X12 which refer to a circular and a suggestion made

to delay the procedure of nominating a successor, and X12 is a letter between

Government and

\

f

4

Provincial Officers. There is also reference in the petition to letters X1S & X16.

(Attorney General's oplhibn). The position in )(16 and X17"which are under rev"iew

by court, is that the last will has not been registered within 3 months from the

date of the death of the permit holder as required by Section 64 of the Ordinance

and that the said last will is not valid. Based on this view 3rd Respondent informed

the 1st Respondent to decide on the successor to the required permit under

Section 72 of the Ordinance.

The other matters urged inter alia on behalf of the Petitioners is that

Koranelis had given all 11 children sufficient land except to the 2 Petitioners. The

4th Respondent also had been given land by Koranelis. Further by X19 Attorney-at-

Law who attested the last will informed the 1st Respondent that the last will was

sent for registration. X19 is dated 30.11.2008. Koranelis died on 29.3.2003 (X4).

Learned President's Counsel drew the attention of this court to certain provisions

of the Land Development Ordinance and impressed upon this court that failure to

register the last will under Section 64 of the Ordinance without proof is a

technicality and it does not go to the root of the case.

ir

f II

I

r1

I

\l

5

The position of the official Respondents inter alia as submitted by

learrfed SeniorSfcite Coun-sel -is thaffalTure 1:oregister the last will as being fatal

for the Petitioners. Further such omission is not a disputed fact, and the

petitioners do not deny their lapse to register within time. Attention of this court

was drawn to the provisions that require registration, by learned Senior State

Counsel, (vide Sections 19(3), 29 to both permits and grants) and Section 56(1), 58

& 64 of the Land Development Ordinance. To the written submissions submitted

to this court on behalf of 1st to 3rd & 5th Respondents are annexed marked 'A'

orders published by the relevant Minister in terms of the provisions of the Land

Development Ordinance. It relates to the prescribed procedure or the manner

required to be adopted in registering permits and grants. (To be registered in a

folio contained in a special register meant for the purpose in the Land Registry).

This court is mindful of the fact that the Land Development

Ordinance was enacted to provide for the systematic development and alienation

of state land in the country. A permit is personal to a permit holder and upon his

death no title will pass to his heirs other than a successor duly nominated.

(Section 26). This court also observes that the legislature in enacting this

ordinance has at various stages of alienation of state land and registration of

same either on a permit or grant provided that it need to be done within a time

6

limit, more particularly a condition to be adhered to by the respective

beneficiaries. It is so done for the systematic alienation and development of State

land. When one attempts as a permit holder or as a holder of a grant to convey

his or her rights certain time limits need to be followed as the property in dispute

remains state land. As such state need to exercise some control to achieve the

purpose of the statute, unlike private property where court will not insist on strict

compliance on time limits even in cases where a last will has to be proved or an

application for probate is made to court, since they are private dealings and

private arrangements. Case before this court is different and strict compliance of

the statute would be essential. I would refer to the provisions where registration

is essential in case of a last will, as follows:

Section 64 ..

A nomination or cancellation of a nomination made in the last will of the owner of a holding or

a permit-holder shall not be valid unless it is registered in the prescribed manner within a

period of three months reckoned from the date of the death of the owner of that holding, or

the date of the death of that permit-holder, as the case may be.

Section 65(1)

A nomination or a cancellation of a nomination made in the last will of the owner of a holding

or of a permit-holder shall not be registered unless the applicant for registration shall furnish to

the registering officer a certified copy of that will together with a certificate in the prescribed

\i II

7

form to the effect that probate of that will has been applied for, signed by the secretary of the

District Court to which the application for probate was made.

In the above context (Sections clear and no further interpretation

would be necessary) failure to follow the method and procedure contained in the

Sections 64 & 65 would result in a state of invalidity which might ultimately cause

surrender of land to the State. The following to be noted.

Section 85 ..

A successor duly nominated by a permit-holder who fails to make application for a permit

within a period of one year reckoned from the date of the death of that permit-holder, shall be

deemed to have surrendered to the Crown his title as successor to the land.

Section 86 ..

Land deemed to have been surrendered under section 85 shall vest in the Crown free from all

encumbrances

The Petitioners argued that the original permit holder died on

29.3.2003 and the Petitioners instituted testamentary proceeding in the District

Court on 27.6.2003 within 3 months as referred to in the order X9, and Petitioner

thought it fit to impress this court that Section 58(1) of the Ordinance does not

apply to registration of last wills and that Section 58(1) refer to other documents

where the place of registration is stated i.e Registrar of Lands of the District. Then

an attempt was made by the Petitioners to demonstrate that in terms of Section

I

8

64 which applies to last wills the place of registration is silent and mere failure of

the Petitioners to register the lastwHl· under Section-64 without proof rs a

technicality which does not go to the root of the case. I am unable to agree to

that view suggested by the learned President's Counsel for the Petitioners. This

court takes the view that strict compliance with the statute is mandatory in case

of the Land Development Ordinance and Section 64 and Section 65 need to be

followed exactly to the point. The words included in the Section 65(1) with

emphasis is that ... " a certified copy of that will together with a certificate in the

prescribed form to the effect that probate of that will has been applied for, signed

by the Secretary of the District Court. It is only a notification of probate that is

required in terms of the statute, at a early stage. This court is also of the view that

Section 65(2) is another situation where probate is refused by court. That would

occur at a subsequent stage of the proceedings in the District Court.

This court is firmly of the view that there is no technicality ir. the

manner argued by leaner President's Counsel since the last will in question is a

will executed dealing with State Land and not private property. As observed

above courts need not apply a strict standard if the property in question was not

subject to the provisions of the above statute, as private dealings and

I

\ ,

I! I

i I I !I

~ II

\

II

I I I I t 1 ! i ! ; ! ! I 1 ! \ i I

'~

9

transactions on a last will are purely family arrangements, but not in the case of

last wills executed under the Land Development Ordinance.

Learned President's Counsel as regards the arguments advanced on

'technicality' cited some case laws. Nanayakkara Vs. Warnakulasooriya, S.c.

Appeal 50/2008, W.M. Mendis & Co. Vs. Excise Commissioner. The case in hand is II II

no comparison to the above decided cases, since the Land Development

Ordinance includes clear provisions which are very substantive in their nature and

non compliance with same is no technicality, but fatal to the application. The

above decided cases no doubt demonstrate sound law on the aspect of technical

objections. The argument of learned President's Counsel on this question has to

t be rejected for the reasons stated above, since non-compliance with the

provisions of the statute would necessarily lead to abuse and result in a situation

for the authorities concerned to work in a state of confusion, which should be

avoided.

In all the above facts and circumstances we are not inclined to grant

any relief to the Petitioners, for non compliance with statutory requirements. It is

very unfortunate that the last will has to be rejected. We are inclined to accept

the position of the learned Senior State Counsel who analysed the provisions of

10

the Land Development Ordinance. Writs of Certiorari and Mandamus are

discretionary remedies-Of court. This is· not a fit case to-€aflsider the issuance of

the writs sought. Application dismissed without costs.

Application dismissed.

6:; -0. / GlV~ ) ~ .". , (

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

I agree.

(' ~j~J-

JUDGE OF THE COURrOF APPEAL

Deepali Wijesundera J.

Ii