==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA Writ 47/2011

J. Rumy Packirdeen No: 15/38, Zaharaz Garden, Circular Road, Badulla.

Appellant Vs. D.M Thilakarathna Agrarian Development Officer, Agrarian Service Centre, Rambukpotha, Badulla. And 02 others

Respondents

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for a mandate

in the nature of a writ of certiorari under

Article 140 of the Constitution of the

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

C.A. (Writ) Application No. 47/2011

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

Deepali Wijesundera J.

: S. Sriskandarajah J. (PICA)

Deepali Wijesundera J.

: P.Dayaratne P.C with Nadeeka

K.Arachchi and D.N. Dayaratne

for the Petitioners

H.P Ekanayake S.C for the

Respondent.

: 29th March, 2012.

: 18th May, 2012

The petitioner has filed this application against the respondents for

a writ of certiorari to quash the order of the 1 st respondent dated

25/08/2009 and also has moved for a stay order to stay the proceedings

of case No. 10774 in the Magistrates Court of Badulla.

1

The petitioner has become the owner of a land described as "Paula

Kumbura" by deed No 307 (marked as P1) dated 23/12/2000 which land

is shown as Lot 1 in plan 5376. The said land is depicted as low lands or

paddy fields and the petitioner has made an application to fill the land to

construct a house to the Commissioner of Agrarian Services under

section 62 (1) of the Agrarian Services Act No. 58 of 1979, amended by

Act No. 4 of 1991 (marked as P4). The Assistant Commissioner of

Agrarian Service has informed the Deputy Director of Urban Development

Authority Uva Province that he has no objection to the petitioner's

application by letter dated 29/05/2002 marked as P5. The petitioner has

filled the land and built a house and has also got electricity to the partly

built house.

An order dated 25/08/2009 made under sec. 32 (1) of the Agrarian

Development Act No. 46 of 2000 was affixed on to the petitioners

premises directing him to stop the unlawful construction and filling of his

land which had been described in the said notice as a paddy field,

(Marked as P14) by the 1st respondent.

The 1 st respondent has also made a complaint against the

petitioner under sec 32 (5) of the said Act at the Badulla Police Station

(marked as P16) on this complaint the police have arrested 4 persons

who were carrying out construction work at the said land. A case was filed

in the Magistrates Court of Badulla (case No. 10774 marked as P18). The

petitioner has made this application to stay further proceedings in this

case and also to quash the order dated 25/08/2009 by the 1 st respondent.

2

The counsel for the petitioner argued that the said land which was

described as a low land was in fact a high land and that he made an

application to the Commissioner of Agrarian Services under the relevant

Act and asked for permission to fill the land. He further stated that the

Badulla Municipal Council and the Urban Development Authority have

registered the petitioner's house and issued an assessment number and

provided electricity. The petitioner submitted that the order of the 1 sl

respondent should be quashed.

The respondents stated that the land related to this case is a paddy

land and the fact that the land was not listed in the paddy land register

does not warrant the petitioner to fill up the said paddy land. The

respondents further submitted that the authority which has the power to

decide whether a land is a high land or a paddy land is the Commissioner

General of Agrarian Development.

The 1 sl respondent stated that the order seeking to be quashed

was written by him after finding out on a site visit that the petitioner has

started building an unauthorized construction in the paddy land in

question (marked as R4 and R4a). The respondents stated since the

petitioner did not act according to the notice served on him they had to

act under sections 32 (5), 32 (6) and 32 (7) on the powers vested on

them.

3

The respondents argued that P14 which is a valid legal document,

issued within the authority of the respondents the petitioner has no

ground to obtain a writ of certiorari from this court.

On perusal of deed No. 307 marked as P1, and the documents

produced as P4 and P5 it is very clear that the land in issue is a paddy

land. Although the petitioner has sought permission from the

Commissioner of Agrarian Services to fill this land he has not waited for

his approval to fill and build on this land. The documents issued by the

Municipal Council and the Urban Development Authority do not apply to

the issue in this case.

Section 28 (1) of the Agrarian Development Act No. 46 of 2000

reads as follows:

"The Commissioner General may decide whether an extent of land is

a paddy land

N

The authority which has the power to decide whether a land is a

high land or a paddy field is the Commissioner General of Agrarian

Development.

Documents R2 and R3 marked by the respondent's sets out the

procedure to be followed when paddy land is used for other purposes. No

where it is stated in the documents produced by the petitioner that he was

granted permission to fill the paddy land.

4

The 1 st respondent after it was brought to his notice that the

petitioner has filled a paddy land has acted under the said Act and issued

the notice marked P14. Since the petitioner did not act according to the

instructions given in the said notice marked P14 the respondent was

compelled to act under sec. 32 (5) of the said Act Section 32 (1) (a) (c),

32 (3) , 32 (5) and 32 (7) reads as:

32 {l}: Any person who, without obtaining written permission from

the Commissioner-General

-Q-: fills up an extent of paddy land with soil or other material or

attempts to fill up such extent of paddy land;

-c-: constructs any structure within any extent of paddy land or

does any act in furtherance of such purpose;

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

32 {3}: When any person commits an offence under subsection (1)

the Commissioner-General or an officer appointed in accordance with

subsection (2) of section 38 shall forthwith issue notice to all such persons

involved, to abstain from committing such offence. The exhibition of such

notice in or on a prominent place in such extent of paddy land shall be

deemed to be service on all such persons.

5

32 (5): Where an offence under subsection (1) is being committed by

any person or when any course of action is taken to do so, an officer

appointed under subsection (2) of section 38 shall complain to the officer

in charge of the police station of the area where such extent of paddy land

is situated.

32 (7): All such persons as are taken into custody under subsection

(6) and any implement, instrument, machine, vehicle or any other article or

document shall forthwith be produced before the Magistrate's Court.

For the aforestated reasons I decide that the respondents have

acted in bona fide according to law on the powers vested in them and

dismiss the petitioner's application with costs. Fixed at Rs. 10,000/=

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

S.Sriskandarajah J

I agree.

//~. A~IDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

6