==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for Mandates

in the nature of the Writ of Certiorari under

and in terms of Article 140 of the

Constitution.

*******

C.A. (Writ) Application No. 618/2011

1

Abdul Azeez Mohomad Thaj,

No. 20, Hunukotuwa Road,

Opposite Y.M.C.A.

Badulla.

PETITIONER

Vs

1. S.M.D.C. Samarasekara,

Assistant Commissioner of Agrarian

Development of Badulla,

Agrarian Development Office,

Keppetipola Road, Badulla.

2. D.M. Thilakarathna,

Agrarian Development Officer

Rambukpotha,

Agrarian Services Center,

Rambukpotha, Badulla.

3. Agrarian Development Council of

Rambukpotha,

Agrarian Services Center, Badulla.

4. Ravindra Hewawitharana,

Commissioner General of Agrarian

Development,

Department of Agrarian

Development,

No 42, Sir Marcus Fernando Mw,

Colombo 07. ! I I 5. Hemantha Gamage, I i Assistant Commissioner

i ! ! (Products/Sales) of Agrarian

1 ! Development, Department of , I I Agrarian Development, I I I No.42, Sir Marcus Fernando Mw,

! I I Colombo 07. I 6. WA Karunathilake,

I

Deputy Commissioner (Industrial)

i Development of Agrarian I , Development, Department of i ,

I

Agrarian Development,

No.42, Sir Marcus Fernando Mw,

I

Colombo 07.

7. Secretary to the Ministry of I

Agrarian Services and Wildlife, i "Govijana Mandiraya" ! ! I

No.80/S, Rajamalwatta Avenue,

i I

Battaramulla.

And another I I

j RESPONDENTS I 1 2 , i I ! I I !

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

Deepali Wijesundera J.

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

: Asthika Devendra for the

Petitioner.

Neel Unamboowa, D.S.G. for the

Respondents.

: 28th February, 2014

: 20th June, 2014

The petitioner has filed this application for writ of certiorari to

quash the decision of the 2nd respondent in document marked P4 and to

quash the documents P8A and P8B of the 1st and 4th respondents.

Document marked P4 which the petitioner seek to quash is dated

31 st March 2003 and is addressed to the petitioner issued in terms of

Sec. 32(1) and (3) of the Agrarian Development Act no.46 of 2000 and

states that he is filling a paddy land and to refrain from doing so if not

action will be taken against him under the said act.

3

P8A and P8S the other documents the petitioner is seeking to

quash are an affidavit and a notice filed in the Magistrates Court of

Badulla on 5th June 2008 under the said act to be served on the

petitioner by the Magistrate.

The petitioner without making an application before the Magistrate

against the said notice has made an application against it to the High

Court of Badulla to quash the said notice. This application was refused

by the learned High Court Judge and he has appealed to the Supreme

Court, which was later withdrawn. The instant application has been filed

in October 2011 over three years after the said notices were filed in the

Magistrates Court.

P4 the other document the petitioner is seeking to quash is dated

March 2003 which was made eight years prior to this application

The learned High Court Judge's order (marked P9J) refusing the

petitioner's application has been delivered on 27/10/2009. The petitioner

has filed this application two years after the said finding.

4

i I

I I I I I I I

The petitioner's argument was that the land in issue is not a paddy

land and that by P11 and P3 the land has not been registered as a

paddy land. On perusal of P3 it is evident that this document states

about the change of ownership and nothing about a paddy land. P11 is a

building permit issued by the Urban Development Authority. Before

going into the merits of this case to decide whether it is a paddy land or

not this court has to decide whether the relief prayed by the petitioner

can be granted by this court. It appears that the petitioner has sought to

quash two different notices issued by two different persons. The notice

issued to the petitioner under the said act is not an unlawful or ultra vires

act by the respondents, the duty on the petitioner under the said act is to

appear before the Magistrate and show cause.

The petitioner had an alternative remedy, he had the opportunity

to show cause at the Magistrates Courts of Badulla to establish or to

prove that the subject matter is not a paddy land and he has failed to do

so. Under Sec. 33 (5) of the said act when a case has been filed by the

Commissioner General of Agrarian Services against a person for

violating the provisions of the act that person has an opportunity to show

cause. The petitioner has disregarded to accept the summons and

instituted a writ application in the High Court which the learned High

Court Judge quite correctly refused for want of jurisdiction.

5

Paragraph 30 of the petition states the appeal filed in the Supreme

Court against the High Court order was withdrawn on the 25th of

November 2011 on which date it has been fixed for support. The instant

case has been filed on 1 th October 2011 that is before the withdrawal of

the Supreme Court appeal, which is contrary to the Court of Appeal and

Supreme Court Rules. In Jayaweera vs Assistant Commissioner of

Agrarian Services Ratnapura and another 1996 2SLR 60 it has been

held:-

(1) There is a presumption that official and legal

Acts are regularly and correctly performed.

(2) It is not open to the Petitioner to file a convenient

and self-serving affidavit for the first time before the

Court of Appeal and thereby seek to contradict

either a quasi-judicial act or judicial act

(3) If a litigant wishes to contradict the record he

must file necessary papers before the Court of first

ins tan cel initiate an inquiry before the Court and

thereafter raise the matter before the Appellate

Court so that the Appellate Court would be in a

6

position on the material to make an adjudication on

the issues with the benefit of the Order of the Court

'ft Petitioner who is seeking relief in an

application for the issue of a Writ of Certiorari is not

entitled to relief as a matter of course, as a matter of

right or as a matter of routine. Even if he is entitled

to relief, still the Court has a discretion to deny him

relief having regard to his conduct, delay, laches,

waiver, submission to jurisdiction - are all valid

impediments which stand against the grant of

relief. II

Notice P4 has been sent in order to prevent harm being caused to

the public at large therefore the duty of informing by way of a notice is

not ultra vires or arbitrary. The lawful function and judicial process of

issuance of summons can not be subject to a writ of certiorari in the

absence of any credible reason against such lawful act. Therefore a writ

of certiorari can not be issued.

7

1

There is a delay of over two years in making this application a writ

of certiorari will not be issued where there has been undue delay in

applying for the writ.

For the afore stated reasons the application of the petitioner is

dismissed with costs fixed at Rs. 50,0001=.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

8