==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A. No. 56/2010 HC. Kalutara Case No. 377/2004

Mirissage Padmasiri, Pothuwila, Payagala.

Accused Appellant Vs. Hon. Attorney General Attorney General's Department Colombo 12.

Respondent

1

CA. 56/2010 Kalutara High Court Case No. 377/2004

Before Anil Gooneratne,J. &

P.R. Walgama,J.

Counsel Indika Mallawarachchi for the accused-appellant

Haripriya Jayasundera, D.S.G. for the Respondent

Argued &

Decided on 03.10.2014

Ani! Gooneratne,J.

We have heard both counsel for the accused-appellant and the learned

)

Deputy Solicitor General. The accused-appellant was indicted in terms of

Section 365 B(2)(b) of the Penal Code as amended. According to the

indictment, the offence had been committed during the period 01.04.2001

and 03.06.2001. The victim was only 12 years and 3 months. The incident

which took place has been described by the prosecutrix in her testimony in

Court. When she gave evidence in the High Court, at the time of giving

evidence in the High Court she was 17 years old. According to the version of

the prosecutrix, the accused-appellant had on the day of the incident returned

home by about 9.30 a.m. in the morning. At that time only the victim, her two

sisters were at home. The youngest is 3 years old who was sleeping at that

time. Evidence revealed that the accused had got the other sister (witness No.

2) to buy some yoghurt from the nearby shop and she was sent away from the

l 1 J 1 $ 1 I I ,

{

~ I I I !

2

house. There is also evidence to the effect that as she left the house the doors

of the house were locked. The sexual act has been described by the victim

witness No.2 also saw the victim being abused by the accused. Although she

(witness No.2) was sent out of the house to purchase yoghurt she returned

without purchasing and she according to her evidence had an opportunity to

view not the exact sexual act, but some form of abuse being caused to the

victim.

Learned counsel for the defence took up several objections and raised

the following matters and invites this court to consider same.

(1) Testimonial trustworthiness of the prosecutrix.

(2) Medical evidence does not support the version of the

prosecutrix

(3) Evidence as submitted by the learned counsel implicating

the accused-appellant is in conflict.

Both learned counsel having submitted each other case, at a

certain point agreed that if this Court reduce and vary the sentence,

ends of justice would be met. As per the said section of the Penal Code

a minimum sentence would be 7 years rigorous imprisonment. The

3

accused-appellant was convicted on 09.06.2010. As at today, the

accused-appellant has served about 4 years in Prisons Custody. This

Court having heard both counsel is of the view that the sentence need to

be altered. As such, we proceed to sentence the accused for a period of

7 years rigorous imprisonment. The fine and the compensation awarded

by the learned High Court Judge would not be altered. Sentence as

stated above (7 year period) commence to run from the date of

conviction namely, 09.06.2010.

Subject to above variation of sentence, this appeal is dismissed.

G;]J G \)o...r.&, c---~ DGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.R. Walgama,J.

I agree

Cr/-