==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA.

CA Appeal No.390/95 (F)

Hetti Mudiayanselage Podimahattaya of Galapitamada.

PLAINTIFF -APPELLANT. -Vs.-

1 A Lekamalage Dingirimahattaya

2. Atigala Vidanalage Karunaratne of Wehella, Galapitamada.

3. Narangodage Mudalihamy

4. Atukarallage Peiris Singho

5A.Do Gunawardene.

6A.Do Munasinghe Atukorala

7 A.Atigala Vidanalage Karunaratne.

SA.W.Gamaralage Dharmasena.

9. Wickrama Arachchillage Pabilis Singho.

10. Do Peter Singho.

11. Do Martin Singho.

12. Do Podiappuhamy.

13. Do Podimenike.

14. etti Mudiyanselage Podimahattaya. DEFENDANT -RESPONDENTS.

CA 390/95(f)

Counsel: D. Jayasinghe for the Plaintiff/Apellant.

Sunil Abeyratne for the 2nd to i h DefendantslRespondents.

Written Submissions: 23-11-2007, 3-11-2010,2-12-2010.

Before: Rohini Marasinghe J

Judgment: 31-3-2011

The Plaintiff! Appellant hereinafter referred to as appellant filed a partition

action to partition the land called "Hapugahawatte" more fully described in

the schedule to the plaint. After trial the learned trail judge dismissed the

action. This appeal is against that dismissal.

The land to be partitioned was surveyed by a commission issued by court.

The survey plan bearing no.268 made by Licensed Surveyor on 21-8-1973

was marked as "X" at the trial. There was no dispute as to the identity of the

corpus. The dispute was with regard to the devolution of title.

The case of the appellant was briefly as follows;

The original owner of this land was one Appuhamy. By virtue of the

District Court action bearing No 1121 dated 14-5-1935 half share of the land

of said Appuhamy was sold by fiscal conveyance and was purchased by

Mohotti Appu. The said Mohotti Appu by deed No 22204 dated 29-9-1953

• w marked as P 2 had transferred that half share to one Podimahathmaya, ( 1 st

Defenant) one Podihamy alias podi manike, one Dingiri Mahathmaya, and

Punch Nona. Therefore, each of the said parties became entitled an

undivided 1/8th share of land. The said Podihamy, Dingirimahathay and

Punchinona by deed bearing No 967 dated 11-10-1971 had transferred their

shares to the Appellant. Consequently, the appellant became entitled to an

undivided 3/8th share in this property. The appellant had further stated that

the said Appuhamy had 3 children by the name of Mudalihamy (3 rd

Defendant) one Podihamy and one Siriwardenahamy. The said Podihamy

according to the appellant had died unmarried and issueless. Therefore, that

share also had devolved on said Mudalihamy and Siriwardena. The

appellant further contended that said Siriwardanahamy had transferred his

share by deed bearing No 16418 dated 20-11-1970 to the 2nd defendant

Karunaratne. Consequently, the appellant alleged that the shares in this land

should be allotted as follows;

An undivided 3/8th share to the appellant, an undivided 1/8th share to the 1 st

defendant, an undivided 2/8th share to the 2nd defendant and undivided 2/8th

share to the 3 rd defendant.

There was no dispute that the original owner of this land was one Narnagoda

Appuhamy. But the dispute was with regard to the identity of the said

Narangoda Appuhamy.

The case of the 2 to i h Defendants hereinafter referred to as respondents

were as follows;

2

There were two persons by the name of Narangoda Appuhamy. The

respondents clamed that the Namagoda appuhamy stated by the appellant

was a different person.

According to the respondents the Narangoda Appuhamy they suggested as

the original owner had 2 children named Mudlaihamy and Wijehamy. And

the respondent therefore, denied the devolution of title pleaded on the fiscal

conveyance marked as Pl.

The appellant and the 3rd defendant had given evidence on behalf of the

appellant. The learned trial judge had commented on the evidence of the 3rd

defendant who had tried to support the case of the appellant. The trial judge

had been of the view that 3 rd defendant was attempting to give false evidence

in this case. The trial judge had rej ected the claim of the 3 rd Defendant.

Additionally, the trial judge was also of the view that the respondents also

had failed to establish their title to the property in issue. And on that basis

the claim of the respondents too have been dismissed.

The appellate court may reverse the trial judge's conclusion on pure

questions of fact, if the reasons given by the trial judge are not satisfactory,

or it appears to the court that the trial judge has been grossly misdirected on

the evidence led before him. I am of the view that the trail judge had

carefully examined the documents and the oral evidence of the witnesses of

both parties. I see no reason to interfere with the findings of the trial judge. I

therefore, affirm the judgment and dismiss the appeal.

The appeal is dismissed.

3

• f

Rohini Marasinghe J

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

4