==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA 123/2010

The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Vs

HC Gampaha 4/97

Before

Counsel

Argued on Decided on

1. Ponweera Archchige Sarath Kumara 2. Ukwatta Liyanage Don Saman Kumara 3.Kahadawela Archchige Don Udaya Kumara Accused

And Now Between

1. Ponweera Archchige Sarath Kumara 2. Kahadawela Archchige Don Udaya Kumara Accused-Appellants

Vs The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Respondent

Sisira J de Abrew J & PWDC Jayathilake

ASM Perera PC with Harshika Samaranayake for the 1st Accused Appellant. Neville Abeyratne with Asitha Vipulanayake for the 2nd appellant

(3rd accused) Vijith Malalgoda PC, ASG for the Respondent.

: 18.2.2013 and 19.2.2013

: 3.4.2013

Sisira J de Abrew J.

The above named three accused were indicted for committing the murder of

a man named Don Roland. The 2nd accused died before the commencement of the

2

trial. Thereafter the charge was amended to read as that 1st and 3rd accused with

the 2nd accused committed the murder of Don Roland. After trial the learned trial

judge found the 1st and the 3rd accused guilty of the offence of culpable homicide

not amounting to murder an offence punishable under Section 297 the Penal Code.

Each accused was sentenced to a term of ten years rigorous imprisonment (RI) and

to pay a fine Rs.5000/- carrying a default sentence of six months RI. Being

aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence they have appealed to this court.

The facts of this case may be briefly summarized as follows: The deceased person

was in the habit of visiting the house of Jayasena and on some days he used to

sleep in this house. On the day of the incident around 7.30 p.m when Jayasena was

getting ready to have his dinner the deceased person came and started watching the

television in the hall of the house. At this time he came to the hall of the house as

he heard a glass breaking sound. Then he saw the 1st, 2nd and 3rd accused in the hall

of the house. The 1st accused was carrying a sword. The deceased person was lying

fallen in the adjoining room. Furniture and plates of the house had been damaged.

The 1st accused told Jayasena that he inflicted injuries to the deceased person as he

(the deceased person) had assaulted his father. This is the summary of the

deposition of Jayasena at the Non Summary inquiry. Jayasena died before the

commencement of the trial.

Main contention of learned PC for the 1st accused was that Jayasena was

not a reliable witness. I now advert to this contention. Jayasena made a statement

to the police around 9.50 p.m on the same day. Chief Inspector (Cl) Adikari says

that he recorded the second statement of Jayasena as he felt that Jayasena had not

made a full disclosure in his first statement. Jayasena died before the

commencement of the trial in the High Court. Therefore his deposition at the non

summary inquiry was produced as evidence under section 33 of the Evidence

Ordinance. Learned defence counsel at the non summary inquiry pointed out that

3

Jayasena had not mentioned the names of the accused persons in his first statement

made to the police. This appears to be a vital omission. The question that arises is

whether the deposition of Jayasena could be believed in view of the said omission.

He saw the deceased person lying fallen and the three accused persons in his

house. The 1st accused was having a sword. There was blood on the floor. Why

didn't he mention the names of the accused persons in his first statement made to

the police? According to J ayasena before he heard the glass breaking sound, the

deceased person was watching the television. Soon after the said sound he saw the

deceased person lying fallen and the three accused persons inside his house. Any

reasonable man under these circumstances would think that the accused persons

were responsible for inflicting injuries to the deceased person. When I consider all

these matters a serious doubt is created in the credibility of this witness. According

to Jayasena's deposition he got to know that the deceased person had had a fight

with the 1st accused's father in the afternoon of the day of the incident. According

to Jayasena, the 1st accused told him that he inflicted injuries to the deceased

person as he (the deceased person) had assaulted his father. But the 1st accused

who gave evidence at the trial proved by producing the death certificate of his

father that his father had died fourteen years ago. Thus the above deposition of

Jayasena becomes false. If Jayasena' deposition is false the accused appellants

should be acquitted. According to Jayasena, motive for the killing of the deceased

person was that the deceased had had a fight with the 1st accused's father. But the

1st accused's father had died 14 years ago. Thus Jayaasena fabricated a false reason

as the motive for the killing. The learned trial judge has not considered these

matters. Prosecution case depended only on deposition of Jayasena.

The 1st accused appellant in giving evidence denied the incident and

proved that his father had died 14 years ago. But according to Jayasena, accused

appellant inflicted injuries on the deceased person as he had had a fight in the same

4

afternoon with the father of the 1st accused. Therefore one has to consider whether

the evidence of the 1st accused creates a reasonable doubt in the truth of the

deposition of Jayasena. In my view, the evidence of the 1st accused creates a

reasonable doubt in the deposition of Jayasena. The entire case of the prosecution

depends on the deposition of Jayasena. Thus if the evidence of the 1st accused

creates a reasonable doubt in the deposition of Jayasena, it creates a reasonable

doubt in the truth of the prosecution case. In a criminal case, when the evidence of

an accused person creates a reasonable doubt in the truth of the prosecution case

what should the court do? The answer to this question is found in the judicial

decision of Ariyadasa Vs Queen 68 NLR 66 wherein His Lordship Justice TS

Femando held thus: (1) If the jury believed the accused's evidence he is entitled to

be acquitted. (2) Accused is also entitled to be acquitted even if his evidence,

though not believed, was such that it caused the jury to entertain a reasonable

doubt in regard to his guilt.

I have earlier held that the 1st accused's evidence creates a reasonable

doubt in the truth of the prosecution case. Then the accused is entitled to be

acquitted. The learned trial judge has not considered these matters. Applying the

principles laid down in the above judicial decision, I hold that the accused

appellants are entitled to be acquitted even on this ground.

When I consider all these matters I feel that it is unsafe to allow the

conviction to stand. I therefore set aside the conviction and the sentence and acquit

the appellants of the charge of which they were convicted.

Appeal allowed.

PWDC Jayathilake

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Judge of the Court of Appeal.