==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

(Passedaway) Rev. Vilakatupotha Sri

Seelanandabhidana.

C.A. Case No. 556/2000F

DC Kuliyapitiya Case No. 6155/L

(Disrobed)

1

Chief Rev. of Pahala

Dolospattuwe,

Chief Imcumbant of Usgala

Swarnabimbarama

RajamahaViharaya &

Presently at

Bhodirukkaramaya,

Malagane, Hettipola.

PLAINTIFF

Sri

Rev. Hengamuwe Anuruddha

Incumbant Rev. Usgala

Swarnabimbarama Rajamaha

Viharaya, Kobaigane

1 st SUBSTITUTED-PLAINTIFF

Rev. Nikaweratiye Mangalahimi

Incumbant Usgala

Swarnabimbarama Rajamaha

Viharaya, Kobaigane.

2ND SUBSTITUTED-PLAINTIFF

2

-Vs-

Wedanaidelage Appunaide

Alias Arachchi Naidelage Appu

Naide,

Kokkawilagama, Kobaigane.

DEFENDANT

AND NOW

Rev. Nikaweratiye Mangalahimi

Incumbant-Usgala

Swarnabimbarama Rajamaha

Viharaya, Kobaigane.

2NDSUBSTITUTED-PLAINTIFF -

APPELLANT.

-Vs-

Wedanaidelage Appunaide

Alias Arachchi Naidelage Appu

Naide.

Kokkawilagama, Kobaigane.

DEFENDANT -RESPONDENT.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

Deepali Wijesundera J.

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

: M.M.A. Gaffoor J.

: M.C. Jayaratne with M.D.J.

Bandara for the Substituted-

Plaintiff-Appellant.

Defendant - Respondent is

absent and unrepresented.

: 11th February, 2015

: 15th June, 2015

The original plaintiff who was the Chief Incumbent of Usgala

Swarnabimbarama Rajamaha Viharaya has instituted action in the

District Court of Kuliyapitiya against the Defendant Respondent seeking

a declaration that the land called Kahatagahamula Watte and Pinyaya

Hena, Siyambalagahamula Watte, Mahawewa, Dangahamula Watte in

extent of five acres and twenty six perches depicted as Lot 4 in plan

2631 described in the scheduled to the plaintiff is the property of the said

Rajamaha Viharaya and to evict the defendant respondent and those

holding under him therefrom. The respondent has filed his answer and

3

trial had commenced on 19/04/1993. The original plaintiff had passed

away and the substituted plaintiff has self-disrobed and the second

plaintiff appellant has been substituted in place of the deceased original

plaintiff.

At the commencement of the trial in the District Court the

defendant respondent has admitted that the property described in the

schedule to the plaintiff is a property belonging to the Usgala

Swarnabimbarama Rajamaha Viharaya. On conclusion of the trial the

learned District Judge has dismissed the plaint. This appeal has been

filled by the second substituted plaintiff appellant against the said

judgment.

The learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the District

Judge has rejected the plaint stating that the substituted plaintiff failed to

prove the succession to the temple and that the plaintiff failed to prove

the devolvement of the title to the land in question. The appellant's

counsel stated that the second substituted plaintiff had a right to defend

an action filed by the original plaintiff because it is a 'sangika' property

and cited the judgment in Chandrawimala Therunnanse Vs Siyadoris

47 NLR 304-310. He further stated that the appellant has taken steps to

protect the sangika property owned by the Usgala Rajamaha Viharaya.

4

He also stated that the respondent failed to object to the second plaintiff

respondent being substituted in place of the deceased plaintiff and the

learned District Judge failed to consider this issue. He further submitted

that according to the prevailing law a sangika property is not a property

owned by a private person or a corporate body therefore the incumbent

Viharadhipathi or any Reverend who has acquired sufficient, interest as

Viharadhipathi has a 'locus standi' to sue a third party to protect the

sangika property.

The defendant respondent after issuing notice several times never

came to this court. He was absent and unrepresented at all times. In the

district Court the defendant respondent has recorded an admission as

follows.

Therefore it has been admitted by the defendant respondent that

the land in issue is the property of the Rajamaha Viharaya. The learned

District Judge has misdirected himself when he went to explore how the

original Chief Incumbent Priest acquired title to the said land, when the

defendant himself had admitted the land belonged to the Temple. A

sangika property is owned by the Temple and not by the priests.

5

The defendant when giving evidence and his witness

Hapuarachchi has stated in evidence that the land belonged to the

temple and that the defendant was given to reside in the land for the

services he was providing to the temple. These services were later on

stopped by a viharadipathy as stated by the defendant in evidence. A

person who ceases to work for the temple does not have the right to

enjoy the benefits of the temple land.

The defendant respondent in the District Court has not produced a

single document to show that his predecessors were given the temple

land for the services, they provided on a 'Sannasa' or a grant.

In the case of Chandrawimala Therunnanse Vs Siyadoris it has

been stated "that a Bikku who is not the rightful incumbent, can

manintain an action in respect of sangika property of a temple if he has

acquired sufficient interest as viharadhipathi" in the instant case on the

demise of the original plaintiff and the disrobing of the substituted

plaintiff the second plaintiff respondent has come forward to protect the

sangika property. Sangika property is the property of the Temple and not

the private property of the priests therefore when the defendant has

admitted the land belonged to the temple there is no necessity for the

plaintiff to prove his succession to the temple.

6

if

~ , f l i j I t

For the afore stated reasons the judgment dated 19/04/1993 of

the learned District Judge of Kuliyapitiya is set aside. We allow the

appeal, the relief prayed for by the second plaintiff appellant in prayer (a)

of the petition of appeal.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

M.M.A. Gaffoor J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

7

i i j Il