==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A.N0.780/98 (F)

M. K. Sahardeen D/1F/04 Dias Place (NSH) Colombo 12.

Substituted-Defendant-Appellant

D.C.COLOMBO CASE N0.5048/ZL Vs.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS

Weerakkody Arachchige Marynona No.761, Kanthi Mawatha, Hunupitiya, Wattala.

Plaintiff-Respondent

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J.

Nizam Kariappar with M.I.M.Iynullah, Attorneys-at-Law

for the Substituted-Defendant-Appellant

Shamith Fernando Attorney-at-Law for the Plaintiff-Respondent

21ST MARCH 2013

FILED ON 09th April2013 by the Plaintiff-Respondent

DECIDED ON 07th MAY 2013

CHITRASIRI, J.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the judgment dated 21.10.1998 of the

learned District Judge of Colombo. In that judgment learned Trial Judge held that the

plaintiff-respondent (hereinafter referred to as the plaintiff) is entitled to have the case

decided in her favour as she has succeeded in proving her longstanding possession to the

2

land in dispute adverse to the rights of the defendant-appellant. (hereinafter referred to as

the defendant) Accordingly, the decision of the learned District Judge is against the

defendant who claimed rights through the deeds marked V1 0, V11 and V12. Being

aggrieved by the said decision of the learned District Judge the defendant has come to

this Court seeking to set aside the aforesaid judgment dated 21.10.1998.

Having answered the issue No.2 affirmatively which was raised on the basis of

prescriptive rights of the plaintiff, learned District Judge decided the case relying upon

Section 3 of the Prescription Ordinance. The said Section 3 entitles either a defendant or

a plaintiff in an action to a decree in his/her favour with costs upon proving undisturbed

and uninterrupted possession of lands or immovable property, by a title adverse to or

independent of that of the claimant for ten years previous to the bringing of such action

provided the possession referred to above is unaccompanied by payment of rent or

produce, or performance of service or duty, or by any other act by the possessor, from

which an acknowledgment of a right existing in another person. This position in law is

supported by many authorities.

Maasdorp's Institutes (7th Edition Vol2 at 96)

Wigneswaran J in Leisa and another V Simon and Another [2002 (1) SLR 148]

Pathirana V Jayasundera [58 NLR 169]

Dona Cecilia V Cecilia Perera and others [1987 (1) SLR 235]

Wijesundara and others v Constantine Dasa and another [1987 (2) SLR 66]

I will now turn to consider whether the learned District Judge correctly evaluated

the evidence and applied the law relevant thereto when he accepted the prescriptive rights

I

3

of the plaintiff rejecting the defence taken up by the defendant. In coming to his findings,

learned District Judge has considered and accepted the evidence of the plaintiffs

husband. In his evidence Wilson Kannangara has stated that the land in dispute had been

known to him since 1949 and had commenced possession of the land in the year 1950.

Thereafter, he made an application to Dalugama Municipality to construct a house on the

said land. The plan made for the said purpose had been marked as Pl. Thereafter,

having built a house there, he has been in uninterrupted occupation of the same

throughout. He had been living on this land continuously since the year 1950 and all his

08 children were born while occupying the said house.

He also has stated that there was an attempt to evict him from the land pursuant to

filing an action in the year 1981. Despite the filing of this action he has been in continued

possession of the same resisting even the execution of the decree entered in that action.

The evidence led in respect of the continuous possession of the land on behalf of the

plaintiff and his family members since the year 1950 had not been controverted at all.

The possession adverse to the rights of the defendant also is established by refusing to

leave the premises by the plaintiffs husband despite the attempts to evict him particularly

in the year 1981. Even though three title deeds have been produced in evidence marked

as V10, V11 and V12 by the defendant, the plaintiff had not permitted him to exercise his

rights derived from those three deeds. In other words, the plaintiff along with her

husband Wilson Kannangara had been in possession of the land adverse to the rights of

the defendant well over ten years before filing this action. Having considered those facts

presented in evidence, learned District Judge has concluded that the plaintiff is entitled to

claim prescriptive title to the land in dispute whilst rejecting the rights claimed by the

.I

4

defendant. I do not see any error on the part of the learned trial judge when he came to

this conclusion. Therefore, I do not see any merit in this appeal.

Moreover, it must be noted that no particular question of law has been raised as a

ground of appeal in this instance except for the delay in delivering the judgment. This

issue of delay in pronouncing judgment was not pursued by the learned Counsel for the

defendant at the argument stage. The defendant in this appeal has basically questioned the

manner in which the learned District Judge has evaluated the evidence as to the facts of

the case. As mentioned hereinbefore, the learned District Judge has carefully considered

the evidence in relation to the facts of the case and had correctly upheld the prescriptive

rights of the plaintiff. However, trial Judge being the best person to decide as to the

given facts, I am reluctant to interfere with the decision arrived at by the learned District

Judge upon considering the facts of the case. This view had been expressed in many

decisions including that of Wickremasuriya V Samarasuriya. [68 N.L.R. (1965) at

page 349]

For the aforesaid reasons, I am not inclined to interfere with the decision of the

learned District Judge.

Accordingly, this appeal is dismissed with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

I