==== BLOCKS ==== 

• •

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

CALA No. 05/2011

Quazi Court Monaragala-Badalkumbura No. M 5504

Razeena Cassim No. 8617, Mahiyangana Road, Badulla.

APPLICANT -APPELLANT

Vs.

Ahamed Azmi No. 4911. Razik Fareed Mawatha, Sir Razik Fareed Mawatha Periyamulla, Negombo.

RESPONDENT -RESPONDENT

AND

Ahamed Azmi No. 4911, Razik Fareed Mawatha,

Sir Razik Fareed Mawatha Periyamulla, Negombo.

RESPONDENT -RESPONDENT-PETITIONER

Vs.

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERA TNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J.

Razeena Cassim No. 8617, Mahiyangana Road, Badulla.

APPLICANT -APPELLANT-RESPONDENT

A.H.G. Ameen and D.K.S. Kodagoda For the Respondent-Respondent -Petitioner

F. Thahir and A.L.N. Mohamed For the Applicant-Appellant-Respondent

21.02.2012

16.3.2012

2

This is a leave to appeal application filed by the Respondent-

Respondent-Petitioner (hereinafter referred to as the Petitioner) against his

wife the Respondent who were married to each other on or about 4.4.1990,

(vide Marriage Certificate marked PI) and by this application the Petitioner

! I [

1

~ !

3

_ inter alia seeks to set aside the maintenance order of the Quazi Court of

Monaragala in Case No. M/5504 and contained in order P8 and the order

made by Board of Quazis on 22.10.2011 marked P 13 (prayer (b) & (c ) of

the petition). The main argument that was advanced on behalf of the

Petitioner in his oral submissions which was supported by written

submissions, was that:

(a) under the Islamic Law a wife would not be entitled to maintenance if the wife

refuse to live with the husband, and in the petition tiled in this court the other

ground is

(b) Constructive desertion by the Respondent in refusing to live with the husband

It would be necessary to consider the order at P8 & P13 to decide

whether to grant or refuse leave. It was the position of the learned Counsel

for . Respondent that the Petitioner had not contested maintenance before the

Quazi Court which made order as in P8 on the basis urged in (a) above (if

the wife refuse to live with husband). Further learned Counsel also

contended that before the Quazi the Petitioner had agreed to pay a sum of

Rs. 30001-, and also argued that the Petitioner failed to appeal to the Board

of Quazis from the order made by P8. It was the Respondent who appealed

to the Board of Quazis from the order of the Quazi Court ordering

maintenance in a sum ofRs. 10,0001. It is recorded in the order at P8 that the

Petitioner agreed to settle for Rs. 30001-.

~r

r,l

rI

l

I

l

IIII

4

In the order at P8 and it's proceedings the evidence recorded

therein of the Petitioner it is stated inter alia that he had again married in

Negombo and the 2nd wife has a child of 14 years. It is also recorded that the

Petitioner could pay Rs. 3000/- per mansum. It is also stated that the moneys

invested with the Golden Key cannot be recovered and that he is

unemployed. The Respondent in her statement inter alia state that her return

to Sri Lanka she lived with the Petitioner for about 2 years happily and

thereafter over an argument Petitioner left the house after an heated

argument having assaulted her. She tried to trace the Petitioner but was. not

successful. In that statement various expenses of her are mentioned and she

claims Rs. 15,000/- per month, as maintenance.

The Board of Quazis proceeding and order at PI3, gives a full

description in a chronological order of all events and all steps taken before

Quazi and the Board of Quazis. Therefore this court need not again

reproduce those facts and what this court should be mindful of is only the

question of maintenance and whether as a matter of law the so called refusal

of the Respondent to live with the Petitioner.

!

\

4 ,tt

~ ,t

II

)

[ ItI ,

tI

i

i<

~ t 1

5

This court was invited to consider the following authorities by

learned counsel on either side and I have noted the following:

A. Syed Ameer Ali in his book Mohammadam Law 1965 at page 377 states that

when the woman abandons the conjugal domicile without any valid reasons he is

not entitled to maintenance.

B. Minhaj et Talibin 1992 at page 385 referring to the Imam Shafi, the Imam of the

Sunnis who are majority in Sir Lanka and the Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act

applicable to Sunnis in Sri Lanka, states that Imam Shafi during his stay in Egypt

adopted the doctrine that a wife's maintenance is obligatory only if she puts

herself at her husband's disposition and not in virtue of the contract of marriage.

The husband has a presumption in favour of his assertions for any proceedings as

to the putting of the wife at his disposition. ConseC;11ently a husband owed his

wife no maintenance so long as she refuses to come to him. but owes it from the

moment he hears she is willing to part herself at his di'lposition.

c. In Abdul Hai vs. Mariam Natchia MMDL Report Vol. IV page 34 It was held

that, Under Muslim Law a husband is not obliged to maintain his wife where she

unjustifiably refuses to live with him.

D. In Razeem vs. Bafaquiyyah reported in MMDL Report Vol. IV page 41. It was

stated, "The question whether the wife is entitled to maintenance because, as

alleged by the husband, she refused to live with him in his house at Stafford

Place, has not been considered by the Kathi As far as the evidence goes the wife

has made the bare statement that he had not maintain her for eleven months and

that he did not come to her during that period. The husband on the other hand says

that he left her because she refused to come and live in his house.

fI

II

6

E. In Pathumuthu vs. Abdul Cader, reported in MMDL RepOlt Vol. V page 59, "The

Appellant was the 1 st wife of Respondent who brought a second wife from India.

It was admitted that the second wife is not a concubine. Both wives lived together

at Darley Road, Maradana, for some time. The 1 st wife left the house as she

"would not put up with the other wife" both wives resided under the same roof

but the appellant was provided with a separate room for her use. Held that the

husband had discharged his obligations in providing the appellant with a separate

dwelling but the room or apartment was not exclm;vely for her own use. The

appellant was satisfied with the newly reconstructed apartment for her own

exclusive use but she refused to go back to her husband unless and until he made

the payment of certain sums of monies. Held she was not entitled to maintenance

after her refusal before the Board. She was awarded maintenance up to the date of

the order of the Board. Case 23 NLR 277 was followed and Minhaj 316 and

Mohammadan Law (1917) by Ameer Ali was cited.

F. In Halaldeen vs. Irrefathul Zohara Reported in MMDL Report Vol. VI, page 81,

the Quazi decided the means of the husba'ld h~ decide the quantum of

maintenance to be awarded to the wife when there was refusal on the part of the

wife refusing to live with the husband. The order cf the Quazi was quashed in this

case on the basis of refusal to live with the husband.

In all the above circumstances and facts placed before this court, it is

apparent that the Respondent wife n.ever attempted to abandon the conjugal

domicile without valid reason and or refused to live with the Petitioner. This

court observes that having considered the case history of the husband who

had been on many occasions unfaithful and untruthful to his wife the

II

f

If

III

rII

f

1I

7 e Respondent In this application is justified in refusing to live with the

Petitioner in Negombo. A bare statement inviting the wife to live with him

in Negombo would not suffice. The Petitioner, appears to this court, to be in

the habit of associating many woman either legally or otherwise, should in

no uncertain terms satisfy the Respondent wife that she would be provided

independent accommodation in the Negombo house, especially when

another wife is living with him in Negombo. It is the burden of the Petitioner

to provide material to the relevant authorities and his Respondent wife, that

independent and uninterfering accommodation with easy access would be

provided by the Petitioner in the Negombo residence In the absence of such

material and or information made available to court I do not consider that the

Petitioner could rely on the legal principle that the wife would not be entitled

for maintenance since she has refused to live with him. Nor can this court

accept the position that there is constructive malicious desertion on the part

of the Respondent wife.

The Respondent no doubt had to undergo very humiliating

experiences in view of the conduct of the Petitioner at various stages of her

life. Respondent cannot be deprived of her legal entitlement for

maintenance. I am not satisfied with the legal position put forward by the

I

fiIIt

t!!! I

Jt

8

_ Petitioner, in the circumstances of this case. In all the circumstances, this

court is of the view that there is no merit in this application. Hence leave to

appeal is refused with cost.

Application refused.

I I 1f

~ I II

• J, t

II

\ ,