==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I i I

1 IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

Amarasilpage Nandasiri

Accused -Appellant.

C.A. Appeal No. 73/2009

H.C. Panadura Case No: 2143/2006

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

-Vs-

Republic of Sri Lanka

Respondent

Sisira J. de Abrew ,J. (Acting PICA) &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

Dr. Ranjit Fernando for the Accused-Appellant.

Ms. Varunika Hettige SSC for the Respondent.

09.12.2013

1

Sisira J. de Abrew,J. (Acting PICA)

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases. The accused-

appellant in this case was convicted for committing grave sexual abuse to

a girl named Varuni Chandima and was sentenced to a term of 10 years

Rigorous Imprisonment, to a pay a fine of Rs. 10,000/- carrying a default

sentence of 06 months simple imprisonment and to pay a sum of Rs.

50,000/- to the victim carrying a default sentence of 2 years Imprisonment.

Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence he has

appealed to this Court. Learned counsel for the accused-appellant submits

that he does not challenge the conviction but he submits that the sentence

imposed by the learned trial Judge is excessive.

According to the indictment the accused-appellant is alleged to have

touched the female organ of the girl and he has got the girl to touch his

male organ. At the time of the incident the girl was only 09 years of age.

When we consider the charge and the sentence, we feel that the sentence

imposed by the learned trial judge is little excessive. The Court has a

discretion to impose an appropriate sentence notwithstanding the fact that a

minimum punishment has been prescribed by law. Vide S.C. 3/2008. We

therefore set aside the 10 year term of Rigorous Imprisonment and sentence

him to a term of 07 years Rigorous Imprisonment. We direct the Prison

2

I

f r i I !

Authorities to implement the sentence from the date of sentencing by the

learned High Court Judge.

Subject to the above variation of the sentence the appeal of the

appellant is dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Kpmj-

3

rti

I