==== BLOCKS ==== 

1 1

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an Application against the Final Order of the Provincial High Court of

Western Province read with Section 154 (p) 3 (b) of the Constitution of Sri Lanka.

MC. Fort Case No.BIl 039/2008

R.A. Ranasinghe No. 21B, Alfred Place,

Colombo 03.

Petitioner

HC (Rev) Case NO.HCRA 18012009 CA IPHC 185/2011

VS.

01. The Hon. Attorney General, Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

1 st Respondent

02. Officer in Charge, Commercial Crimes Division, Division 3 Criminal Investigation Dept. Colombo 01.

Plaintiff-Respondent

03.Aswallage Sujith Rupasinghe, No.3016, Nadun Dyana, Mirigama.

Defendant - Respondent

2 l 04. Amerasion Private Limited,

No.2I2, Dampe Road, 4 " 1 Piliyandala J j Aggrieved Party -Respondent , I

i I I AND NOW II IAmerasion Private Limited INo.2I2, Dampe Road, !Piliyandala. IAggrieved Party- Respondent Appellant

IVs.

R.A. Ranasinghe, I

1No.2IB, Alfred Place,

Colombo 03.

{Petitioner-Respondent

fI01. Hon Attorney General, ![Attorney General's Dept. Colombo 12. Ii

1 st Respondent-Respondent i02. Officer in Charge, Commercial Crimes Division, Division 3,

f !Criminal Investigation Dept., lColombo 1. i

Plaintiff-Respondent-Respondent

J

I

j I

BEFORE

COUNSEL:

Argued

Decided on

3

03.Aswallage Sujith Rupasinghe, No.30/6, Nadun Dyana, Mirigama.

Defendant-Respondent-Respondent

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne, J. &

P.R. Walgama, J.

Saliya Peiris for the aggrieved Party - Respondent Appellant

Manohara de Silva P .C. for the Respondent - Respondent

25.02.2015

05/08/2015

Malinie Gunaratne, J.

This is an appeal preferred against the Order of the learned High

Court Judge of Colombo dated 06.02.2011.

When the Appeal was taken up for hearing on 06.08.2014, the learned

President's Counsel for the Respondent raised a preliminary objection as to

the maintainability of this Appeal.

The learned President's Counsel submitted that as required by Rule 2

(l)(a) of the Court of Appeal Rules for Appeals from the High Court the

Appeal filed in this case is not addressed to the Court of Appeal invoking the

f

I

4

jurisdiction of this Court. Instead it was addressed to the High Court of the

Western Province. Further he submitted that it has not been addressed to the

President of the Court of Appeal and to the Other Judges of the Court of

Appeal.

In view of the above objection, the Counsel for the appellant made an

application to amend the Petition of Appeal and the Court allowed to file a

draft amended petition subject to the objections of the Respondent. The

Appellant tendered a draft Petition of Appeal and the matter was fixed for

inquiry. The Court decided without going into the matters raised in the

Petition, to inquire into the question in view of the said issue whether the

Appellant can proceed or not with this application.

When the matter was taken up for inquiry on 25.02.2015, it was

agreed by both parties to file written submissions on the question of the

preliminary objection that relates to the maintainability of this action.

The first question which arises for decision is that whether the

Appellant has filed this Petition of Appeal in accordance with Rule 2(1)(a) of

the Court of Appeal Rules. If the answer is not, would the Appellant then be

entitled to proceed with this Appeal.

In the written submissions filed in this Court by the Respondent it was

contended that the Rule 2(1)(a) of the Court of Appeal (Procedure for

Appeals from High Courts established by Article 154 P of the Constitution)

Rules of 1988 which, specifically states that an appeal against any judgment

or final order or sentence of the Provincial High Court shall be addressed to

the Court of Appeal.

f

I

I I ! j I

5

The said Rule 2(1)(a) reads as follows:-

2( 1) Any person who shall be dissatisfied with any jUdgment or final

order or sentence pronounced by the High Court in the exercise of the

Appellate or Revisionary jurisdiction vested in it by Article 154 P

(3)(b) of the Constitution, may prefer an appeal to the Court of Appeal

against such judgment for any error in law or fact.

(a) by lodging within fourteen days from the time of such judgment

or order being passed or made with such High Court, a Petition of

Appeal addressed to the Court of Appeal or ..... .

The learned President's Counsel submitted that the purported Petition

of Appeal dated 19.12.2011 is not addressed to the Court of Appeal and is

instead addressed to the Provincial High Court of the Western Province. He

further submitted that the Petition of Appeal has not been addressed to the

President of the Court of Appeal and to the Other Judges of the Court of

Appeal, according to the Rule 14 (1) of the Court of Appeal Rules. Rule

14(1) reads as follows:

14( 1). The Petition of Appeal shall be distinctly written upon good

and suitable paper, and shall contain the following particulars:-

(a) the name of the court in which the application is pending;

(b) the names of the parties to the application;

(c) the names of the appellant and of the respondent;

(d) the address to the court of appeal;

t I

1 1 I

6

(e) a plain and concise statement of the grounds of objection to the

order appealed against such statement to be set forth in duly

numbered paragraphs;

(f) a demand of the form of relief claimed.

It is relevant to note that the Appellant has not complied with Rule 14

(1) (a) and (d) of the Court of Appeal Rules.

Accordingly the President's Counsel's contention was that since the

Appellant has not properly invoked the jurisdiction of this Court the

Appellant cannot proceed with this Appeal.

The learned Counsel for the Appellant III reply, contended that

although the original Petition of Appeal was wrongly addressed to the High

Court, the body of the Petition clearly shows that it is an Appeal from an

Order of the High Court and that the Petition being addressed to the High

Court rather than the Court of Appeal was a mistake and the intention of the

Appellant was to appeal to the Court of Appeal. It is relevant to note that the

Counsel has not mentioned anything in regard to Rule 14( 1) (d), namely

omission to the address to the Court of Appeal. It was his contention that in

the interests of justice an appeal should not be rejected on technical grounds

as no material prejudice was caused to the Respondent.

Maxwell - Interpretation of Statutes Ith Edition Page 320 states,

"Enactments regulating the procedure in courts are usually construed as

imperative". (R. vs. Justices of Oxfordshire (1813) 1 M and S 446; Fox vs.

Wallis (1877) 2 C.P.D 45.

[

7

In the case of Public Prosecutor vs. Koi (1968) A.C. 829, at p. 852,

The Judicial Committee, citing Maxwell, has held, that this "direction not to

proceed with the trial" ..... is mandatory, that is to say imperative in

character. It seems that enactments regulating the procedure to be followed

in Courts are usually imperative and not merely directive. (Maxwell -

Interpretation of Statutes 1ih Edition Page 321.

It has been held over and over again by this Court as well as the

Supreme Court, non-compliance with the Court of Appeal (Appellate

Procedure) Rules is fatal to the application. The importance and the

mandatory nature of the observance of the Rules of the Court of Appeal in

presenting an application has been repeatedly emphasized, and discussed in a

long line of decided authorities by the Court of Appeal and the Supreme

Court.

In the case of Coomasaru vs. Mis Leechman and Co. Ltd., and Three

Others, Tennekoon, C.J. stated as follows:

"Rules of Procedure must not always be regarded as mere

technicalities which parties can ignore at their whim and pleasure". In that

case, the preliminary objection raised on behalf of the Respondent that relates

to the non compliance of Rules upheld and dismissed the case.

It was held in Nicholas vs. Macan Marker Ltd; (1981) 2 SLR 1, non-

compliance with the Rule which is in imperative terms would render such

application liable to be rejected.

Justice Soza stated in Navarathnasingham vs. Arumugam and

Another (1980) 2 SLR 1 " This Petition therefore should have been rejected

IIIII

[

t f

8

for non-compliance with Rules. Further he stated that the Supreme Court

Rules are imperative and should be complied with.

Same decision was followed in the case of Rasheed Ali vs. Mohamed

Ali (1981) 2 SLR 29.

In the case of Koralage vs. Marikkar Mohamed and others (1988) 2

SLR 299, it was held, compliance of the Rules is a mandatory requirement

and non-compliance is a material defect in the application and cannot

maintain the application.

Same decision was followed in cases Brown and Company Ltd. V s.

Rathnayake (1990) 1 SLR 92, The Attorney General vs. Wilson Silva (1992)

1 SLR 44 and Balasingham and Another vs. Puvanthiram (2000) 1 SLR 163.

It was stated by Perera J. in Balasingham case, failure to comply with Rules

is indeed a failure to show due diligence. The appeal was accordingly

dismissed. In the cases of Facy vs. Sanoon and Others (2003) 2 SLR, and

Jeganathan vs. Sajyath (2003) 2 SLR 372 same decision has been followed.

It was held in Shanmugadivu vs. Kulatilake (2003) 1 SLR 215, the

requirements of Rules are imperative and the Court of Appeal had no

discretion to excuse the failure to comply with the Rules.

Hence, the weight of authorities mentioned above, thus favours the

view, that non-compliance with the Rules is fatal to the application. Parties

who invoke the jurisdiction of the Court cannot ignore the Rules and then ask

to be heard.

It is to the best interest of the administration of Justice that Judges

shall not ignore or deviate from the procedural law and decide matters on

1 i I I

•

9

equity and justice as Dr. Amarasinghe J. pointed out in the case of Fernando

vs. Sybil Fernando and Others (1997) 3 SLR 12. In that case Dr.

Amarasinghe J. has made reference to the observation of Lord Justice

Scrutton in his lecture "The Work of the Commercial Courts" (1921 - 23) 1

Cambridge Law Journal 6 at P 8 - 9 " ..... , The Oath which every judge takes

is: I will do right to all manner of people without fear or favour or prejudices

according to the law and customs of the realm. And it is the laws and

customs of this realm that the judges have to administer. If once you allow

the laws and customs which you have to administer to be diverted by the

particular view you take of the particular case, another judge may think

otherwise on the same facts, and there ceases to be any certainty in the law.

If the laws and customs you have to administer are wrong it is for Parliament

to put them right - not for the judges. It is important that the Judges should

interpret the settled laws without altering them according to their views of

right or wrong in the particular cases."

Dr. Amarasinghe J. pointed out in the case of Fernando vs. Sybil

Fernando "there is the substantive law and the procedural law. Procedural

law is not secondary. The two branches are complementary. Halsbury points

out it is by procedure that the law which puts life into substantive law, gives

it remedy and effectiveness and brings it into being".

Hence, in the interests of the administration of justice, there must be

order, and therefore there must be compliance with the Rules of the Court of

Appeal. As I have observed the defect was not of a purely formal or

technical nature. Invoking the jurisdiction of the court is a crucial step in the

proceedings. f

I}!

f· ,!

1 1 I

1 i I I

..

10

The Petition of Appeal filed by the appellant in this case has not been

directed to the proper forum under the proper provision of law in as much as

no proper legally tenable appeal is pending. Therefore it is my considered

view that the Appellant has not invoked the jurisdiction of this Court in a

proper manner complying with the Rule 2 (1)(a) and the Rule 14(1) of the

Court of Appeal Rules.

For the reasons stated above I reject the contention of the learned

Counsel for the Appellant and uphold the preliminary objection raised by the

learned President's Counsel. This appeal is dismissed accordingly.

When the President's Counsel for the Respondent raised the above

preliminary objection the Counsel for the Appellant sought the permission of

the Court to amend the Petition of Appeal and the Court allowed to file a

draft amended petition subject to objections of the Respondent. The

Appellant has tendered a draft Petition of Appeal and the Respondent

objected to it.

Since this Court has dismissed the Appeal for the above stated

reasons, this Court is of the view that it is not necessary to go into the said

matter.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.R. Walgama, J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Appeal is dismissed.

!,1