==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 99 / 95 F

D.C. Kurunegala No. 3058/ L

Ekanayake Ratnayake Was ala Mudiyanse Ralahamilage Dukganna Walawwe Madduma Bandara Ratnayake,

'Dukganna Wlawwa' Miyanadeniya, Pihimbuwa.

Plaintiff Vs.

Land Reform Commission, C 82, Gregory Road, Colombo 7.

Defendant

And Now Between

Ekanayake Ratnayake Wasala Mudiyanse Ralahamilage Dukganna Walawwe Punchi Bandara Ratnayake, 'Dukganna Wlawwa' Miyanadeniya, Pihimbuwa.

Substituted Plaintiff-Appellant

Vs

Land Reform Commission, C 82, Gregory Road, Colombo 7.

Defendant -Respondent

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE J.

Lal C Kumarasinghe for the Plaintiff

Appellant

S. Sahabandu PC with J. R. Rajapaksa for

the Defendant Respondent

21.07.2011

23.082011

The Plaintiff Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant)

instituted an action against the Defendant Respondent (hereinafter referred to as

the Respondent) in the District Court of Kurunegala seeking a judgment for a

declaration that he is entitled to 30172 undivided share of the land called

Miyanadeniya Kande Henyaya. The Respondent prayed for a dismissal of the

Appellant's action. The case proceeded to trial upon 07 issues. After trial, the

learned Additional District Judge dismissed the Appellant's action with costs.

Being aggrieved by the said judgment dated 13.03.1996 the Appellant preferred the

present appeal to this court. Since the Appellant died during the pendency of this

appeal, Ekanayake Ratnayake Wasala Mudiyanse Ralahamilage Dukganna

Walawwe Punchi Bandara Ratnayake was substituted in the room of the deceased

Appellant.

3

The Appellant claimed title to the said undivided share of the land in dispute

under the deeds produced marked P 3 and P 4. He further admitted that the

Respondent has been in possession of the said land since 14th ofOctober1975. The

Respondent took up the position that the Appellant had instituted the said action on

the assumption that he is entitled to the Keppitigalla Estate and he has failed to

identify the land by reference to a sufficient plan. He further took up that since the

land in dispute which is known as Keppitigalla Estate is vested in the Land Reform

Commission under the Land Reform Law No. 1 of 1972, if there was a dispute

between the parties as to the ownership of the land, steps should have been taken

by the Appellant under section 4(1) of the Land Reform Law.

The learned trial judge has dismissed the Appellant's action on the basis that

the Appellant had only a paper title and he did not have the possession of the land

in dispute and he had lost his title since he had failed to act according to the

provisions of the Land Reform Law.

I now examined the law applicable to a dispute between parties as to the

ownership of any agricultural land which is subjected to the ceiling under the said

law since the Appellant has admitted that the Respondent has been in possession of

the said land since 14th of October1975 and also the Respondent has claimed that

the said land is vested in the Land Reform Commission. Section 4 of the Land

Reform law No 1 of 1972 stipulates as follows;

4( 1) Where there is a dispute between parties as to the ownership of any

agricultural land which is subject to the ceiling the Commission may, after such

inquiry as it may deem fit, make an interim order declaring one of such parties to

4

be entitled to the possession of such agricultural land. Every interim order shall be

published in the Gazette and shall come into force on the date of such publication.

(2) Within two weeks of the publication of the interim order in the Gazette

the Commission of its own motion or any of the parties to the dispute referred to in

subsection (1) may refer such dispute to a court of competent jurisdiction for final

adjudication.

(3) Till the final order is made by a court on such reference, the interim

order shall be valid and effectual and shall not be called in question in any court by

way of writ or otherwise. So long and for so long only as the interim order is in

force the person declared by such interim order to be entitled to possess the

agricultural land shall be deemed for the purpose of section 3 to be the owner of

such agricultural land.

(4) As long as the interim order is in force the Commission shall not alienate

the agricultural land to which the interim order relates:

Provided, however, that, where no reference had been made under

subsection (2), the interim order made under subsection (1) shall have the effect of

a final order under subsection (3).

It is manifest from Section 4 of the said Law that clear-cut provisions are

embodied in the said section to deal with disputes which arise between parties as to

the ownership of any agricultural land which has, by operation of section 3(2),

vested in the Commission, and the manner in which such disputes are to be

resolved. Special provisions are set out in section 5 to deal with persons who

became owners of agricultural lands in excess of the ceiling after the date of

commencement of the provisions of the Land Reform Law. Under the provisions

of section 6, the Commission gets absolute title, free from all encumbrances, to any

5

agricultural land which becomes vested III the Commission III terms of the

provisions of sections 3 and 5.

The nature and the scope of the Land Reform Law was carefully considered

by the Supreme Court in the case of Jinawathie and Others V s Emalin Perera

[1986] 2 SLR 121. It was observed in the said case that "A careful consideration of

the provisions of the Land Reform Law (hereinafter referred to as "this Law")

which have been set out at length earlier, in their proper sequence shows: that, with

the coming into operation of the said provisions, on 26.8.1972, the entirety of the

agricultural land owned by a person, who is entitled to more than fifty acres, has to

be deemed to vest immediately in the Commission; that what is so deemed to vest,

vests absolutely free from all encumbrances; that thenceforth the person who

owned such land is deemed to be a statutory lessee of the Commission upon the

terms and conditions set out; that in the event of a dispute arising between such

statutory lessee and another as to the ownership of any such land, the Commission

has the power to make an interim order as to which of them is to possess such land

and the interim order so made is to remain in operation until such time as a final

order is made by a competent court to which the Commission is required to, refer

such dispute. Thereafter such statutory lessee has to make a, 'statutory declaration'

within a specified time setting out the particulars required to be set out, including a

survey plan or sketch map depicting the boundaries of the portion or portions of

the land which has so vested and which such lessee prefers to retain. Upon the

receipt of such statutory declaration the Commission is required to make as soon as

practicable a 'statutory determination" specifying the portion or portions of the

agricultural land that the statutory lessee shall be allowed to retain."

It is common ground that the Appellant did not refer the dispute with regard

to the ownership of the said land which is subject to the ceiling, to the

6

Commission. Hence the Appellant's failure to comply with the procedure enacted

by Land Reform Law would negate the Appellant's right to sue against the

Respondent.

The Appellant further submitted that the Respondent has failed to produce a

plan in respect of the estate he claimed and also he has failed to prove his title to

the said estate.

This being an action rei vindicatio, and the Respondent being in possession,

the initial burden of proof was on the Appellant to prove that he had dominium to

the land in dispute. Therefore the Appellant should prove that he has title to the

disputed property and that such title is superior to the title put forward by the

Respondent who is in occupation. The Appellant can and must succeed only on the

strength of his own title, and not upon the weakness of the defence. The Appellant

must prove his case on a balance of probability.

In the case of De Silva Vs Goonetilleke (1931) 32 N. L. R. 217, which is a

decision of a Bench of four Judges, Macdonell C.J. stated "There is abundant

authority that, a party claiming a declaration of title must have title himself. "To

bring the action rei vindicatio plaintiff must have ownership actually vested in him

". (I Nathan p. 362, s. 593.) "The right to possess may be taken to include the ius

vindicandi which Grotius (2, 3, 1) puts in the forefront of his definition of

ownership. . ...... The authorities unite in holding that plaintiff must show title to

the corpus in dispute and that if he cannot, the action will not lie".

In the case of Abeykoon Hamine Vs Appuhamy (1950) 52 NLR 49, Dias, S.

P. J. Said "This being an action rei vindicatio, and the defendant being in

7

possession, the initial burden of proof was on the plaintiff to prove that he had

dominium to the land in dispute."

Dias, S. P. J., reiterated this principle in the case of Peeris v. Savunhamy -

(1955) 54 NLR 207 when he stated that, in an action for declaration of title, where

the defendants are in possession, the burden lies on the plaintiff to prove that he

has dominium to the land in dispute.

In the case of Banda Vs Soysa [1998] 1 SLR 255 G.P.S. de Silva CJ held

that "In a case such as this the true question that a court has to consider on the

question of title is, who has the superior title?"

The Appellant's submission was that his land is depicted in plan P 1. The

land depicted in plan P 1 contained 18 plots of lands. Surveyor Galagedara who

produced the plan P 1 has admitted in his evidence that lot 1 in the said plan which

is Acres 61 Rood 2 Perches 35 in extent is owned by Janatha State Development

Board. He further said that several other lots depicted in P 1 are occupied by

several persons whose names are mentioned in his report P l(a). It is manifest from

the said evidence that the Appellant has failed to prove that he had dominium to

the land in dispute.

In the said circumstances I am of the view that the learned Additional

District Judge was right in dismissing the Appellant's action. Hence I dismiss the

instant appeal of the Appellant with cost.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal