==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA Case No: CA 331/98(F) DC Colombo Case No: 42098/MHP

Alliance Finance Limited, No: 84, Ward Place, Colombo 07.

-Plaintiff-Appellant- Vs. Ilandarige Rohana Pushpakumara, 6/4, Uswattea Road, Natudura, Kelaniya. Ilandarige Ariyasena, 6/4, Uswattea Road, Natudura, Kelaniya. Weeratunga Arachchige Anton Prasad Seram, 105, Pamunuwa Road, Gonawala, Kelaniya.

-Defendant-Respondents-

C.A.Appeal No. 331/98(F) D.C. Colombo 42098/HP

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

K. T. Chitrasiri, J.

K. T. Chitrasiri, J.

Thanuka Gunawardena for the Plaintiff-Appellant

Respondent is absent and unrepresented.

01.08.2013.

When this matter was taken up on the last occasion namely on

16.07.2013, Counsel for the appellant was directed to submit authorities in

order to consider the correctness of the answer given to issue No. 12 which

had been raised to ascertain whether the plaintiff-appellant had complied with

Section 16 of the Consumer Affairs Act No. 29 of 1982. However counsel for

the plaintiff-appellant appearing today submits that her senior counsel is

not available to make submissions on the above. Counsel for the plaintiff-

appellant further submits that they could not find any authorities to support

the matters raised in respect of Section 16 of the Consumer Affairs Act.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the judgment dated 22nd

April 1998 of the learned District Judge of Colombo. By the said judgment,

1

the learned District Judge dismissed the action of the plaintiff with costs

basically depending on the answer given to the issue No. 12. The issue No. 12

suggested by the defendant reads thus:

The learned District Judge having considered the contents of Section 16 of

the Consumer Credit Act, has decided that the plaintiff has not complied with

the said Section 16(6)(i )(ii) of the Consumer Credit Act. The said Section reads

thus:

"16 (1) ..... .

(2) For the purposes of this section, the value of any goods on the date

of repossession shall mean the best price that can be reasonably

obtained for the goods by the owner on that date .... "

(3) .................... .

(4) .................... .

(5) ..................... .

(6) For the purposes of this section, the best price that can be

obtained for the goods by the owner on the date of repossession shall be-

(a) The highest price offered to the owner for the goods in response to

advertisements for the sale of the goods published in a newspaper

2

! !

circulating in the Sinhala, Tamil and English languages, such

advertisements being published-

(i) ....... .

(ii) within thirty days of the date of repossession, in any other

case;" (Emphasis added)

In terms of the above Section 16, the person who repossesses

the vehicle, he/she being the owner of the leased vehicle shall advertise the

!

sale of the said vehicle in a Newspapers Circulating in the Sinhala, Tamil and

English languages, within 30 days from the date of repossession of the

vehicle. The learned District Judge has carefully considered this position and

has stated thus:

" However there was no satisfactorily proof to establish this contention

during the one year period where the vehicle was exposed to elements of

nature would have caused substantial deprivation of the value of the

property. Thus the best price anticipated in section 16 sub-section 6 of the

Consumer Credit Act 29 of 1992 could not have been obtained for the

defendant by the plaintiff This is a fatal irregularity that could not be

cared with any other excuse. This is a safeguard given to the consumer by

the statute. "

According to the evidence led on behalf of the plaintiff, the date of

repossession of the vehicle had been on the 18th October 1991. The paper

3

advertisement was made in the papers published on 23rd November 1996.

Therefore, it is clear that the pUblication referred to in terms of Section 16

of the Consumer Credit Act had been made more than five years after the date

of repossession of the vehicle.

In the circumstances, it is clear that the plaintiff has not complied with

the requirements referred to in Section 16 of the Consumer Credit Act in

order to obtain the best price for the vehicle leased to the 1st defendant-

respondent. This is the basis on which the action was dismissed by the

learned District Judge. In the light of the above, I do not see any wrong in the

said decision of the learned District Judge.

For the aforesaid reasons this appeal is dismissed with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

THE COURT OF APPEAL

/mds

4

fII

~

~;

JI! I I! I , , I

f i i