==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Kotarge Harischandra alias Harison

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

CA. 55/2010

H.C. Negombo 39/2009

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDNET

Jeffry Zainudeen for the Accused-Appellant

V. Malalgoda A.S.G. for the Complainant-Respondent

07.07.2014

30.07.2014

1

IIi

ti•

2

GOONERATNE J.

This is a case of double murder. The eye-witness was the 12 year old

daughter (only child) of the two victims. (mother and father) on the date of the

incident 5.9.2008 the witness had been in the bath room taking a wash. The

deceased mother was near the bath room seated, and the deceased's father

was in the compound of the house with the pet dog. Evidence reveal that this

is a routine thing and the father takes the dog to the garden in the evening.

Witness has given a description of the house in detail and the surroundings.

The address of the deceased and witness is at Weligampitiya, Ja-Ela. The iron

gate of 4 Y2 feet is at the entrance to the house with a garden. When the

witness was taking a wash, at 7.30 p.m she heard a loud noise of somebody

shouting. She came out of the bath room and in the corridor she saw a person

running towards her deceased mother and pushed her and as a result mother

fell. That person who pushed the mother attacked the deceased mother with a

katty. He was identified by the witness as the Accused in the dock. It was a

dock identification and the victim says that the Accused is called 'Harison,

tI

I,

!

\

f

3

whom she had seen him earlier. Witness had seen this Accused prior to the

incident near the gate of her house.

The witness having seen the incident through fear, hid herself in the

store-room of the house. After a while she opened the door of the house her

mother was near the door and told her she was attacked. There was blood

pouring from the deceased mother. Witness attempted to speak to the

deceased mother but she could not talk. Thereafter the witness had

immediately called her relatives. At that moment itself witness heard the voice

of her father shouting, and she also heard footsteps of somebody. Thereafter

the witness had gone near the fence in the garden and narrated the incident

to another witness, Erandi. The neighbors came to help her and rushed the

deceased mother to hospital but even at that time deceased mother was dead.

At that point of time itself the evidence is that the father was lying dead in the

garden. Witness also found that the pet dog had also been attacked. Witness

was able to identify the weapon (Pl).

The material available support that there had been previous

occasions on which the Accused had come to the premises in dispute and

threatened the inmates of the house and claiming that the house and property

belongs to him. There is clear motive for the double murder by which the

4

Accused threatened the inmates that they would be evicted. The other

important and an idependent witness was one Hubert Shantha. Witness

Hubert was returning home from the church and on the way had to pass the

house of the deceased persons. He saw the Accused jumping over the wall and

coming out of the premises at about 8.30 p.m. Accused was armed and had by

force taken the push cycle of the witness and fled the scene of the crime. The

prosecution had led enough evidence to prove previous enmity between the

deceased party and the Accused over the land dispute.

The position of the Accused-Appellant according to the evidence led

at the trial and in his dock statement was a complete denial and falsely being

implicated by the main witness. We find that the trial Judge has carefully

analysed the evidence led at the trial. Prosecution no doubt has proved the

case beyond reasonable doubt. There is hardly any merit in the dock

statement and the Accused's version. At the hearing before this court learned

counsel for the Appellant referred to the defence position. However the

burden of the defence had not been properly discharged. The prosecution rely

on both direct and circumstantial evidence inclusive of a dying declaration. In

t!I! II

fff

1<

5

all the above facts and circumstances of this case we see no basis to interfere

with the conviction and sentence. We affirm the conviction and sentence and

dismiss this appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne J.

I agree.

/:\ Y (}w~ U1 ~ JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

N.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

I

\•I

tt

!!tt

, i

\i

I