==== BLOCKS ==== 

r

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA. Case No. 550/97 (F)

DC Kandy Case No. 17848/land

1

1. P.A Jayasuriya of

Dulmore, KapuJiadde

Thalatuoya.

2. Renjit Hewavitharana

3. G. Somawathi

Both at Rikkillagaskanda

Bogamuwa Vidyalaya

Rikkillagaskanda - 20730

Plaintiffs {Appellants

Vs

M.W. Silva alias Sayaneris Silva

Of 131D, Anuragama

Kapuliadde - 20206

Defendant/Respondent

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

Deepali Wijesundera J.

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

: M.M.A. Gaffoor J.

: Simal Rajapakshe with Muditha

Perera and Amrit Rajapakshe

For the Plaintiffs - Appellants

Defendant - Respondent is

absent and unrepresented.

: 11 th March, 2015

: 05th June, 2015

The first to third plaintiff appellants have filed action in the District

Court of Kandy against the respondent to get a decree declaring the first

plaintiff appellant as the lawfull owner of the disputed property and to

declare that the respondent is in unlawful occupation of the said

property and to get vacant possession of the property and for damages.

The learned District Judge after trial delivered his judgment on

31/07/1997, declaring the 1 st plaintiff appellant does not hold a valid

permit therefore he is not entitled to the relief prayed for. The plaintiff-

appellants have filed this action against the said judgment.

2

The learned District Judge in his judgment has mainly relied on

the fact that there was no formal document to show the first plaintiff-

appellant was given a grant by the state. The first appellant who lost his

land to the Mahaweli Authority was given a land to occupy by P1 dated

03/06/1984 by the Mahaweli Authority. He has lawfully taken possession

of the said land on 08/05/1985 as shown in P1. By P2 he has been

asked to pay a sum of Rs. 5,416180 in ten installments for the said land,

which he has paid in full. The receipt by the Mahaweli Authoriy is

marked as P3.

The first appellant has given this land to his niece the third

appellant to live after informing the said authority by P5. The second

and third appellants who are husband and wife both being school

teachers were transferred out of the said area and have given the house

they constructed in this land to the respondent on a one year lease to

occupy. The agreement is marked as P13. The respondent who came

into occupation on the said lease agreement has refused to vacate the

premises after one year.

The learned trial judge has held that since there was no state

grant in the name of the appellant he has no title to the land. The District

3

Judge has not considered P1 as a valid permit under Sec. 24(2) of Land

Development Ordinance.

The first appellant lost his property due to implementation of the

Mahaweli Scheme and in exchange he was given the subject matter to

this action. He had a legitimate expectation that the state would grant

him formal legal proof of ownership by a Grant.

Sec. 24 (1) and (2) of the Land Development Ordinance

states;

24 (1). The date on which a person is selected to receive a

permit or a grant of State land shall be the material date

for the purpose of ascertaining whether such person is

duly qualified to receive such permit or grant

24 (2). Where land alienated to a person on a permit is

subsequently alienated to the same person on a grantl the

material date for the purpose of ascertaining whether such

person is duly qualified to receive such land on a grant

shall be the date on which such person was selected by the

Government Agent to receive the same land upon a permit.

4

The respondent giving evidence in the District Court has stated

that a permit was given to the first appellant by the Mahaweli Authority.

He has further stated that a permit was never issued to him by the said

authority.

Q: ®es>e)~ Qoe>O(,)eD cr~~ 8®® @ID® Q~ ~

000 ~@J ~em m~~ o~~ ?

8: es>rei>t.

On the admission of the respondent himself it is evident that the

Mahaweli Authority has granted a permit marked as P1 to the first

appellant and he has also paid the money due to the Mahaweli Authority

for the land.

The appellant's counsel citing the judgment in Ratwatte Vs

Bandara 70 NLR 231 where it was held that fresh evidence can be

produced at the stage of appeal if it is justified had produced the grant

made in favour of the first appellant by the President of Sri Lanka.

5

In Ratwatte Vs Bandar it is state thus;

"Reception of fresh evidence in a case at the stage of appeal

may be justified if three conditions are fulfilled, viz., (1) it must

be shown that the evidence could not have been obtained with

reasonable diligence for use at the trial, (2) the evidence must be

such that, if given, it would probably have an important influence

on the result of the case, although it need not be decisive, (3) the

evidence must be such as is presumably to be believed or, in other

words, it must be apparently credible, although it need not be

incontrovertible".

This grant dated 23/05/2003 was marked as X and produced;

there was no objection to this being produced by the respondent. Since

the production of this document fulfills the three conditions stated in the

afore mentioned judgment this court can accept the said Grant as a

legal document to prove the first appellant's ownership to the said land.

The respondent to whom notices were issued several times by

this court has never come to court. He has not filed any objections to

this appeal.

6

i

I fitI fiJ

~

The first appel/ant who possessed a permit to occupy the said

land by not having a formal grant which is just a formality can not be

said is not the owner of the land because he held a permit given by the

said authority until a formal grant was made. The learned District Judge

has erred when he said the first plaintiff appel/ant was not the owner of

the land in dispute. Even the defendant respondent has stated the first

plaintiff appellant had a permit from the Mahaweli Authority and he was

not given a permit by the Mahaweli Authority. The learned District Judge

has failed to evaluate the evidence placed before him properly when

arising at his findings. Therefore this court has to interfere with the

findings of the learned District Judge.

For the afore stated reasons we set aside the Judgment dated

31/07/1997 of the District Judge of Kandy and grant relief as prayed for

in the plaint dated 30103/1994. The appeal of the plaintiff appellants is

allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

M.M.A. Gaffoor J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

7

III

Ii

I

iI

!

Jt[

t

t