==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Smithkline Becham (Pvt.) Limited

Level 34, West Tower,

World Trade Centre,

Echelon Square,

Colombo 1.

PETITIONER

C.A 110/2012 (Writ)

Vs.

1. Dr. Neville Goonewardena

Director General of Customs

Customs House,

40, Main Street,

Colombo 11.

2. L. M. Nelson

Inquiring Officer

Director of Customs

(Cargo Examination)

Cargo EX2mination Division,

$r; lanka Customs

Rank Container Terminal,

Orugodawatte.

3. DHl Global Forwarding lanka

(Private) L.'mited,

66, Vivekananda Hill,

Colombo 13.

1

II III itif I JII

I,

Jt

fi I f

\I

1

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERATNE J.

Ani! Gooneratne J. &

Malinie Gunaratne J.

3A. M. A. I. R. Fernando

Logistics Supervisor,

DHL Global Forwarding Lanka

(Private) Limited,

66, Vevekananda Hill,

Colombo 13.

RESPONDENTS

Nihal Jayawardena P.c., with Sampath Wickramarachchi for Petitioner

Janak de Silva D.S.G., for 1st & 2nd Respondents

Asoka Somaratne with S. Mathew for 3rd & 4th Respondnets

02.12.2013

04.06.2014

2

Petitioner Company has sought a Writ of Certiorari to quash order

marked A3. The order at A3 was as a result of short levy of customs duty and

the order is directed to impose a mitigated forfeiture of Rs. 24,733,282/-. A

II I i

~ II II I

I i ! ! } f f

I J I t r i l ,

~ I I

3

Writ of Prohibition is sought to restrain the Respondents from recovering the

said sum. In the same application the Petitioner Company seeks a Writ of

Mandamus directing the 1st & 2nd Respondents to determine the correct

amount payable in accordance with Section 18 of the Customs Ordinance. In

the alternative a Mandamus direr:ting the Respondents to determine the

correct amount the 1st Respondent o:uld legall,! order the Petitioner Company

to pay. This court issued a stay order as per sub para (v) of the prayer to the

Petitioner which order was periodically extended and now extended till date

of judgment. The position of the Petitioner ve~v briefly is that the short levy of

customs duty resulted not due to 2ny fraudulent dct but was due to a

oversight which originated in India, but the third party m2nufacturer who

supplied the goods to the Indian CJ~pany which exported the same goods to

the Petitioner Company.

Petitioner Com:;Jany is engaged in th::- busirlPSS of manufacturing,

importing and distributing of pharmaceuticals (0 i1d lodex Balm, was one such

items imported from India, and marl~eted and distrihuted as a pain reliever.

The body of the p~\itiC1n gives a description of packages and change from glass

bottle to plastic bottles. ?,rd Respondent is a fre'ght forwarding company which

clear Petitioner's goods and acts on behalf of the Petitioner Company in the

IIIl I I III

f ,f I !

~ f

t t

1 ,

4

clearing of imported goods. Petitioner gives details of import and the method

adopted in para 13 and the levy of cess in para 14 of the petition. I would for

purpose of clarity incorporate paras 15 to 20 of the petition to demonstrate

now the short weight occurred and which position seems to be not challenged

by the Petitioner Company for the reason5 !)tatl~d thereto. Further X7

document att2mpt to fortify the PEtitioner's position.

1. The Petitioner states that the net weight of the substance so imported had

to be stated in the Customs Declaration in order to calculate the cess

payable and this was calculated on the basis of information found in the

packing list.

2. The two types of containers weie [Jacked in the form of batches. A batch of

20g containers (packs) contained 412 of those numbers and in the case of

109 packs there were 512 such packs in a batch.

3. The Petitioner states that when the Ointment was imported in glass

containers the correct number of packs in a batch was always stated in the

packing list prepared by the third party manufacturer. However, after the

plastic containers replaced glass, an erroneous entry relating to the packs in

a 109 batch had been entered in the packing list prepared by the third party

manufacturer which had gone unnoticed until the Customs detained a

consignment which had arrived in the Port of Colombo and processed for

Customs clearance on or about the 8th of March 201l.

4. The Petitioner states that the Customs Officials had noticed a difference in

the declared net weight and the actual net weight of the substance so

5

imported in the consignment that was subject to a check and had

questioned the officials of the Petitioner Company for explanation of the

difference in the net weight.

5. The Petitioner states that it found out that the reason for the

understatement of net weight was the understatement of the number of

109 packs in a batch as 412 in the packing list prepared by the third party

manufacturer instead of the actual number of packs which was 512.

6. The Petitioner states that once this was detected by the Petitioner

Company the responsible officials of the Company also inquired as to

whether this error had occurred in the previous consignments as well. This

has revealed that this had occurred in six previous consignments as well.

The Petitioner Company in this application gives the impression to

court that the Petition2" is always '~ii!ling tc "ectify the defect/lapses and pay

the difference legally due to the state. The 2

nd Respondent however held a

customs inquiry which went on for ~,everal days and 2nd Respondent as per

documents A - 2 (>d) issued a ShO'N t:ause notice. Our- attention was drawn to

document P23C (rni,~t-;1<e 11 calcuht:ion re. 2r: grm':..) Learned President's

Counsel for Petitioner refp.rred to Section 18 and :'..8 (A) of the Customs

Ordinance.

6

The 1st & 2

nd Respondents inter alia urge the following:

(a) By reference to 2R1 to 2R14 state commercial invoices and packing lists

have been prepared and sent bl / Glaxo Smithkline Pharmaceutical Ltd.

Document prepared by a related party with intent to defraud revenue.

(b) Calculation of cess based on the net weight given in the commercial invoice

and thE cusdec Weight of goods' most crucial item of information to be

entered in the cusdec. Investigation reveal that subject consignments set

out a lower net weight that the actual weight of goods imported.

(c) No packing list produced at the time of clearance.

(d) On 6 occasions earlier there were similar instance of under declaration of

weight for the same item by the Company.

(e) Petitioner failed to confess voluntarily information of the discrepancies,

and false declaration until investigations by the customs.

When I consider the entirety of facts placed before this court, no doubt a

short weight wa:; dis(over,2d at a cNtrJil1 point of time which seems to have

occurred previously. HO\",,~ver the Petitioner Company was ready and willing to

pay the total amount due on short levied payments along with interest and any

other payment legally c!Uf:, Materiell ,3'SO su§.;g€st that the 3rd Respondent

Company acted on bt?·h~!f of ViP Petiti.:'1;-er CC~ P31lY in this entire process. The

erroneous entry is ad:11itted a~; a rni~ta~<e by a th ird par':y manufacturer in the

packing list (as in P23C -_. 412 in~tead of S:t2).

II f l I r t

t It i

~

t I

~ I

7

This seems to be a genuine mistake for which there could be a

possibility to occur, when third parties are brought into the transaction to enable

the Petitioner Company to conclude the transaction. If the Respondents rely on a

willful act or omission to defraud the state revenue the burden of proof on that

aspect would be to pm,/e beyond an 1'2asonatlle douh~5. I would draw more

support to entertain the clbo\/e ViEWS frel n the folbwing r=':ognized case law.

Toyota lanka (Pvt.) Ltd. Vs, S.A .. C.S.\tV. Jilyathilak:1 1 ••••• S.c. Appeal No. 49/2008

Hon. S.N. Silva CJ. held:

"the provision ir S2:ti~i~ 47 'b'_t if sL":h ?oods s"'al~ :let agree with particulars in the bill

of entry the same shall be forfeited' apply to a situation in which by means of a wrongful

entry goods are conveyed by stealth, to evade payment of customs duties or dues or

contrary to prohibition or restrictions ... I am further of the view and hold that the

forfeiture provided for in Section 47 would not apply to a situation of a disputed

classification of goods or an underpayment or short levy of duties or dues. In such event

the proper course would be a requirement for payment of the amount due prior to

delivery of goods or the recovery of the amounts due in terms of Section 18".

On the question of burden of proof the case of Shiabdeen and others

vs. Attorney General 78-79 2 SlR 1 Hon VJirnalachandra J. held:

"the state should have established that fact beyond reasonable doubt as in a criminal

case. The reason for .:;ucl1 a heavy uu;:.!en is thot the Customs Ordinance is a penal

enactment which imposes severe peni1ities on those who violates its provisions, and

that any breach of such provisions rrll'.:.t be establisl'.ed beyond reasonable doubt." In

this case th~ learned Judge fellolNed th~ same p<nciple applied by Basnayake J. in the

case of Attorney Genet"al V. lebbe Thamb'l and Others 61 NLR 254.

8

The Customs Department does not seem to have discharged the

burden of proof beyond reasonable doubt and establish intent to defraud.

I do agree with the views expressed by learned President's Counsel

on the following matters. Section 47 which occupies a page in the Customs

Ordinance would be too pr~lix to inclu-jr:; in this judgment sino~ all those involved

in customs litigation need to bf? fully ::l'N;)re of it') introduction to the statute. Its

application and to apply S.ection 47 with the misde:;cription as in Section 50 does

not appear to be in order.

The othp(" !\\'J r.ascs that ·"0.ed to ~'? I,ept in mind is the cases of

Valible Lanka (Pvt.) Lt:l ... ;md Fonterra Bnnds La nk:-, (Pvt.) Ltd ....

In Valible Lank3 (Pvt.' Ltd. v;. DirectOl G?nera' of CListom~ 2008 BLR at pg 47 &

48 .. Sripavan J. held:

"It is the estabiished rule In the interpretation of statutes levying taxes and duties, not

to extend the provisio'15 of the statutec; by implicating beyond the clear import of the

language used or to enlarge their operation in order to embrace matters not specifically

pointea Out. In c<Jse of doulJi., the jJ,oll'isiol1s art cu,-,strueu most strongly against the

State and in favour of the citizens".

In Fonterra Brands La !1kc! (Pvt.) Ltd. v. l' ;i-ector Ger;=ral of Customs and another

2008 BLR at pg. 346 ..

I I I

l

f l r II t !

9

lilt is a well known and well recognized rule that in a statute imposing a pecuniary

burden, if there is a reasonable doubt with regard to the construction of any

burdensome provision, the construction most beneficial to the subject is to be

adopted" ..

I have also studied with much care and enthusiasm the written

submissions tendered to this court on behalf of the 3rd Respondent. I have

noted the contents and submissions that the excess balm calculated at

771.318 kg. for which no cess was paid the procedure adopted was to do an

inventory of the number of bottles Ci"'d multiply it by the nett content of the

bottles to arrive at the conclusic n :)f excE'SS bottles. Section 123 of the

Ordinance reads th JS:

It shall be lawfut for the Director General to authorize the officers of

customs to take samples of goods for the purpose of ascertaining the duties

payable on such goods or for any other purpose relative to the customs,

and such samples shall be accounted for in such manner as the Director

General rr3'1 cHt?ct".

In all the abovE' facts and Circumstances of this casE', we are of the

view that this is a fit case to exercise the writ jurisdiction of this court. We

direct the issue of a Writ of Certiorari and Mandamus as per sub paras (ii) and

10

(iv) of the prayer to the Petitioner. As regards sub para (iv) we direct that the

mandamus should be issued as in the alternative prayer in sub para (iv).

Application allowed as above without costs.

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne J.

I I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

I

t ,