==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A.676/98 (F)

K.M.S.Abuthahir, No.3/3, Poomawatte, Mahaiyawa, Kandy.

Defendant- Appellant

Kanthasarny Vyapuri, No.86,Srimavo Bandaranaike Mawatha, Kandy.

Plaintiff-Respondent

D.C.KANDY CASE N0.2437/RE

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON

DECIDED ON

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J

Rohan Sahabandu, P. C. with Hasitha Amarasinghe, Attorney-at-Law for the Defendant - Appellant

C.V.Vivekananthan with Ms.Pansy N.Joseph and Shyarnali Liyanage Attorneys-at-Law for the Plaintiff-Respondent.

11.12.2012

15. 01.2013

31. 01.2013

2

CHITRASIRI, J

This appeal of the defendant-appellant (hereinafter referred to as the defendant)

had been filed seeking to set aside the judgment dated 20.05.1998 delivered by the

learned District Judge of Kandy on 19.06.1998. By that judgment the learned District

Judge made order in favour of the plaintiff-respondent (hereinafter referred to as the

plaintiff) allowing him to obtain possession of the land referred to in the schedule to the

plaint, evicting the defendant, his agents and all those who are holding under him.

In the plaint, the plaintiff having mentioned that he is the owner of the premises

in suit had prayed that the defendant be evicted therefrom on the basis that he is a

trespasser to the land. In that plaint it is also mentioned, the way in which the plaintiff

became entitled to the premises in suit. The plaintiff has further stated that the

defendant being a permanent resident elsewhere had allowed a third party to occupy the

premises and accordingly he had treated all of them as trespasses. The defendant in his

answer had claimed tenancy rights to the premises in suit.

Ownership of the premises had not been disputed and it was recorded as an

admission as well, at the commencement of the trial. The plaintiff became entitled to the

land by execution of the Deed 693 which is dated 15.05.1982. It was marked as Pl in

evidence. The defendant had not challenged the said deed of the plaintiff. Hence, there

is no doubt as to the title of the plaintiff to the premises in suit. Moreover, in paragraph

7 of the answer the defendant had not questioned or objected to the rights claimed by the

plaintiff to the premises in suit. It was also admitted that the premises in suit is subjected

to the provisions of the Rent Act No.7 of 1972.

3

Consequent upon becoming the owner of the premises, the plaintiff has sent the

letter dated 22.05.1982 marked P3 to M.K.K.Mohideen alias Seyadu Saheer requesting

him to recognize the plaintiff as the owner of the premises. Said Mohideen alias Seyadu

Saheer is also known as Kachchi Mohideen. The letter P3 was sent to Seyadu Saheer

considering him as the tenant of the premises. In the said letter P3, it is stated that the

plaintiff had purchased the property by deed bearing No.693 dated 15.05.1982 attested

by T.B.H.Dunuwille, Notary Public. The reason for him to send this letter to Seyadu

Saheer treating him as the tenant was that it is the name of Mohideen alias Seyadu

Saheer that appears as the tenant in the registers maintained at the Municipal Council,

Kandy. Relevant entries in those registers had been marked and produced in evidence at

the trial. Particularly, the last two pages of the document marked P5 which is titled as

the rent ledger maintained by the Municipality show that the tenant at the time the

plaintiff purchased the property is Seyadu Mohideen. Also, it must be noted that the

defendant's name is not appearing in the respective registers, to indicate that he was the

tenant at the time the letter P3 was sent or even for many years thereafter.

I will now turn to consider the law relevant to the issue at hand. As referred to

above, the plaintiff is the owner of the premises in suit at all material times. It is trite law

that an owner of a land has the right to eject trespasses therefrom by legal means. This

position was accepted in the case of Khan v. Jayaweera (1994) 2 SLR at 233. In that

decision, it was held that once the plaintiff had established the ownership and the

termination of the license to stay, he is entitled to judgment.

As mentioned hereinbefore, the evidence adduced on behalf of the plaintiff, he

had established his title to the land. The tenant of the premises according to the registers

•

4

at the Municipality, namely Seyadu Saheer had not replied to the letter P3 sent to him in

order to recognize the ownership of the plaintiff. Therefore, on the basis of the law

referred to in the above decision, tenant Seyadu Saheer becomes a trespasser and then

the plaintiff is entitled to obtain possession of the premises in suit evicting said Seyad

Saheer, his successors, agents and all those who are in occupation under him including

the defendant, all of them being trespassers as far as the evidence of the plaintiff is

concerned. This position had been accepted in Hameed alias Abdul Rahman V

Weerasinghe and others. [1989 (1) SLR 217] In that decision G.P.S.De Silva J. (as he

then was) held that where the tenant dies and his widow fails to attorn to the landlord,

the widow cannot claim tenancy rights. Also, in the case of Gunasekara V

Jinadasa[1996 SLR (Vol2) 115], it was held in the following manner.

When the occupier persists in conduct by not accepting the new owner and

continues to deposit the rent in the father's name, then it becomes fundamentally

inconsistent with the contract of tenancy and amounts to a repudiation of that contract,

the transferee has the option either to treat the tenancy as subsisting and to sue for

arrears of rent and ejectment or to accept the occupiers repudiation of the tenancy

and to proceed against him as a trespasser.

However, the defendant denying the fact that he is a trespasser had claimed

tenancy rights to the premises in suit. This position taken up by the defendant, it being a

fact within his knowledge, should establish by him. In other words, it is the burden of

the defendant in this case to establish his tenancy rights to the premises. Then, it is the

duty of the Court to ascertain whether the defendant has discharged his burden on the

standard required in a civil suit namely on balance of probabilities, in establishing his

5

tenancy rights to the premises. If the defendant is successful in doing so, he has the right

to be in occupation of the premises.

Indeed, this fact has been put in issue by the defendant though he had not

referred to a particular section of the Rent Act that he had relied upon. Those issues in

order to establish that the defendant succeeded to the tenancy of his father Mohideen

alias Seyadu Shaheer alias Kachchi Mohideen read thus:

(17) tJaf~C)Oz ~@ ~c:>Seiccl c:>~Cic~ ~® Ci<o~ ~cl~ Ci~~Ci~~?

(18) ~Cid I!DS C)af~C)OzD 1972 qoC) 7 ~oeo Ci<Dc:>@ ~@ oi!Da> cDCiaf

(19) ~Cid I!DS Oz®eil(§C)OzD tJaf~C)OzD tJoz<G>c:> ei®® I!D~c:> Ozc:>O®D eilS>J

oc:>afc:>Jei<DI!D c1®D qcS~ccl qz<~?

As admitted by the parties, the provisions of the Rent Act are applicable to the tenancy

rights of the defendant in this instance. Therefore, Sections 36(2) (a) and 36(2) (b) of the

Rent Act No.7 of 1972 are the provisions relevant to the issue at hand because the premises

in suit had been used as residential premises and then it falls within the category of

"Residential Premises". Also, it must be noted that there is no evidence found to establish

that it was used as business premises. The evidence found at page 78 of the brief clearly

shows that this is residential premises. Those Sections in the Rent Act with regard to the

succession of tenancy rights in respect of residential premises read thus:

36(2). Any person who -

(a) in the case of residential premises the annual value of which

does not exceed the relevant amount and which has been let prior to the date of commencement of this Act -

6

(i) is the surviving spouse or child, parent, brother or sister

of the deceased tenant of the premises or was a dependant

of the deceased tenant immediately prior to his death; and

(ii) was a member of the household of the deceased tenant

(whether in those premises or in any other premises) during the whole of the period of three months preceding his death; or

(b) in the case of residential premises other than those referred to in

paragraph (a) -

(i) is the surviving spouse or the child (where the child is

not less than eighteen years of age) of the deceased tenant;

and

(ii) was a member of the household of the deceased tenant

(whether in those premises or in any other premises)

during the whole of the period of three months preceding

his death; or ........ .

In terms of Section 36(2) (a) above in the Rent Act, annual value ofthe premises

in suit plays a vital role in the event, the defendant is to succeed to the tenancy of his

father. The defendant has neither pleaded the annual value of the premises in his answer

nor has he raised an issue to that effect. Also, not an iota of evidence as to the annual

value of the premises is forthcoming in this instance. Therefore, the defendant is not in a

position to have the cover of section 36(2) (a) of the Rent Act in order to succeed to the

tenancy of his father without establishing the annual value of the premises in suit.

Section 36(2) (b) refers to the residential premises other than those referred to in

36 (2) (a). Accordingly, the defendant inter alia will have to prove that he is a child who

has reached 18 years of age, of the tenant Seyadu Mohideen at the time the contract of

I

i!

'

II

•

7

tenancy of the father came to an end. The evidence relevant thereto, if summarized, is as

follows. Admittedly, Kachchi Mohideen had been the tenant of the premises in suit at

the time the plaintiff purchased the property in question. (paragraph 5 of the plaint and

paragraph 4 of the answer). The defendant in paragraph 5 of his answer had stated that

his father Kachchi Mohideen died in nineteen sixties. In evidence too, he has clearly

stated that his father Kachchi Mohideen died in the year 1960 (proceedings at page 152

of the brief). In evidence he has further said that he was 8 years in age when his father

passed away. (page 164 of the brief) According to the birth certificate of the defendant

which was marked Vl, he was born on 6.8.1953. Accordingly, by the time the father of

the defendant who was the tenant of the premises passed away, defendant was a child of

7 years in age.

As mentioned before, in terms of Section 36 (2)(b) of the Rent Act No.7 of 1972,

only a child above the age of 18 years is entitled to succeed to a tenancy of either parent.

Section 36 (2) (b) (i) mentioned above, is very clear on this point. Therefore, the

defendant, him being 8 years of age at the time of the death of his tenant-father is not

entitled to succeed to the tenancy of his father under section 36(2)(b) as well.

Learned Counsel for the defendant has assisted Court on this point by referring

to the following authorities.

• Senanayake v. Peter De Silva (1986) 2 S.L.R.405.

• Hameed alias Abdul Rahman v. Weerasinghe & others (1989) 1 S.L.R. 217.

• Gunasekera v. Jinadasa (1996) 2 S.L.R.115.

The defendant also has marked several documents particularly the document

marked V 44, to prove that he had been occupying the premises as its tenant. However,

those payments had been made considering one Farook, who was the owner of the

8

premises prior to the plaintiff, as the owner. Nevertheless, the rent receipts produced by • the defendant himself show that the rent had been paid not by him but by his father even

after the death of the father. If he has succeeded to the tenancy of his father by then the

name of the defendant should appear in those registers. According to the plaintiff, it is

the reason for him to send the letter P3 in the name of the father of the defendant.

Without succeeding to the tenancy of his father in the manner stipulated in the Rent Act,

he cannot rely on the payments made in the name of his deceased father in order to

claim tenancy rights to the premises. In the circumstances, the defendant is not in a

position to claim him as the tenant of the premises by paying rent to the previous owner

Farook.

In the circumstances, it is clear that the defendant is not entitled to succeed to the

tenancy ofhis father Kachchi Mohideed in terms of Sections 36(2) (a) or 36(2) (b) ofthe

Rent Act No.7 of 1972. Accordingly, it is my considered view that the defendant in this

instance has failed to establish that he succeeded to the tenancy rights of his father

Seyadu Saheer alias Kachchi Mohideen to the premises in suit.

For the aforesaid reasons, I am not inclined to interfere with the findings of the

learned District Judge. In the circumstances, the appeal of the defendant-appellant shall

fail. The defendant should pay to the plaintiff-respondent, the costs of the appeal as

well.

Appeal dismissed with costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

' IIi

i!I

iI I

I