==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL INTHE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA. C.A. No. 764/97 (F) DC Kuliyapitiya case No.5501/P

Manobala Arachchilage Tikiri Appu Naide Gurulawela, Tharana Udawela (Deceased)

Plaintiff Manobala Arachchilage Sunil Jayawardane Gurulawela, Tharana Udawela

Substituted-Plaintiff Appellant Vs.

1. Jayakody arachchilage Lama Naide.

2. Lanka Mudalige Wijerathna (Deceased)

2a. Siriwardane Henayalage Emalin

2b. Lanka Mudalige Damayanthi Wijekoon

2c. Lanka Mudalige Sriyani Ajantha Kumari

2d. Lanka Mudalige Chaminda Kumara Wijekoon

2d. Lanka Mudalige Nadeeka Dilhani Wijekoon

All of Madulupitiya, Tharana Udawela

Substituted 2a to 2d Defendant Respondents 3. Jayakody Arachchige Guruwa Naide (Deceased)

3a. Jayakodi Arachchige Thilakarathna

4. Jayakodi Arachchige Pithara singho

All of Madulupitiya, Tharana Udawela

Defendant-Respondents

C.A.No. 764/97(F)

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED AND

DECIDED ON

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J.

1

D.C. Kuliyapitiya No.5501/P

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J.

M.C.Jayaratne with M.D.J. Bandara for the

substituted plaintiff-appellant

Erusha Kalidasa for the 2nd defendatnt-

respondent.

lOth June 2013

**********

Learned Counsel for the appellant submits that he would restrict

his appeal as to the decision made in respect of the identity of the land

sought to be partitioned. Learned District Judge has decided that the

land sought to be partitioned is not correctly shown in the plan bearing

No. 615 marked "X" in evidence and has accordingly dismissed the

plaint.

However, at this stage it is brought to the notice of Court by both

the Counsel that the 2nd defendant-respondent, in paragraph 4 of his

statement of claim, has stated that the land sought to be partitioned is

only a portion of a larger land. It has been described in the schedule to

his amended statement of claim dated 1 Qth June 1985. Having disclosed

2

a larger land in the statement of claim, it is his duty to move for a

commission to show the said larger land by way of a plan in terms of

section 9 of the Partition Act. However, the 2nd defendant-respondent

has failed to do so.

Against this background the Counsel for the appellant submits

that the plaintiff is now willing to move for a commission to show the

land referred to in the schedule to the amended statement of claim of

the 2nd defendant-respondent and to proceed with the action from that

point onwards on the basis of the plan to be submitted accordingly.

Learned Counsel for the 2nd defendant-respondent has no objection to

this application of the appellant.

Accordingly, learned District Judge of Kuliyapitiya is directed to

issue a commission to the surveyor, in the event the plaintiff-appellant

moves for a commission to show the land referred to in the schedule to

the statement of claim dated 10.03.1985 of the 2nd defendant-

respondent. Thereafter, the parties are free to make applications to

amend the pleadings, if necessary and to proceed with the action.

In view of the above settlement the proceedings in this Court

are terminated. Learned District Judge is also directed to hear and

conclude this case expeditiously. The Registrar is directed to send the

I 3

original case record back to the District Court of Kuliyapitiya forthwith,

since the parties have come to a settlement in respect of this appeal.

Proceedings terminated.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Kwk/=