==== BLOCKS ==== 

/

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Court of Appeal case No CA 1099/95

District Court Hambantota RE 148

Dikwella Widanage Jardiyas No 25, Main Street Thissamaharama

PLAINTIFF ,: .. , (D€<.&ASSJ»)

Di..wella Widanage Hansawathi No 25, Main Street Thissamaharama

SUBSTITUTED- PLAINTIFF

VS

Sellahewage Sugathadasa No 13 Magama Road, Kasingama Thissamaharamaya

DEFENDANT

AND BETWEEN

Sellahewage Sugathadasa. No 13 Magama Road,

Kansigama Thissamaharamaya

DEFENDANT -APPELLANT~c.f;-~$~') )

VS

Dikwella Widanage Jarcliyas . No 25, Main Street

Thissamaharama

PLAINTIFF -RESPONDANT (DIED)

Dikwella Widanage Hansawathi No 25, Main Street Thissamaharama

SUBSTITUTED- PLAINTIFF -RESPONDENT

AND NOW BETWEEN

Galappaththige Nenaseeli

No 13 Magama Road, Kasingama Thissamaharamaya

I

f ! Counsel: Priyantha Ganegoda for I I

Defendant! Appellant.

Anura Maddegoda for

PlaintifflRespondent.

Written Submissions: 19-2-2010 (Defendant/Appellant)

23-6-2008 (PlaintifflRespondent)

Before: Rohini Marasinghe J

Judgment:31-1-2011

CA 1099-95

The Plaintiff-Respondent hereinafter referred to as the plaintiff had instituted

an action on the basis inter alia that the defendant is in arrears of rent of the

premises more fully described in the schedule to the plaint. The fact that the

Defendant! Appellant hereinafter referred to as appellant was the tenant of

the plaintiff was not in dispute.

1

After trial the learned trial judge delivered the judgment on 5-12-1995. This

appeal is against that judgment.

At the trail the daughter of the plaintiff had given evidence. In her evidence

she had stated that the monthly rent of the premises in issue was Rupees 60 ..

The defendant was the tenant of her father. The father had died during the

pendency of this action. The witness further stated that the appellant was in

arrears of rent since December 1984.

The defendant in his evidence had stated that he was not in arrears of rent as

he had incurred the following expenses in relation to these premises;

1. Rupees 4800 for the purpose of obtaining electricity.

2. Rupees 3500 for the purpose of building a wall

3. Rupees 3600 for the purpose of building a lavatory.

The contention of the appellant was that, he spent on improving the premises

as the plaintiff had promised to sell the premises to him. The trial Judge had

held;

I' ~~-i)«)¥v-t c l\nL.'sO

eh~6~ £5'0 G ~ <?

2

r:j) Y) ~S) C ~'}) t.S ~ t:l6

'i>Lt.S r,) Y) C L B?e'0 G V)~ C

.Bs,.s c!J\.)by) C~f;~ c..S l.S lS-AY) ~.z.r~ ~ rz.. ~J nS~

GYh~w. G j, ;Ji;$,J, '1/)) ~rl.p.,.., l 'A.,..,. ( 1""\ \. ~UI ~-n 7Y) eS 5P.s S S~(tI1im~S~ \)~~i. ££3

Therefore, the learned trial judge had held that there had been no such

agreement between the parties to deduct the moneys spent on the premises

from the monthly rent. The plaintiff had objected to the structural alterations

being made to the premises. The complaint of the plaintiff to the police

against the structural alterations has been marked as PI.

The appellant further submitted that rents payable to the plaintiff from

December 1984 had been deposited in the Tissamaharama Town Council.

The appellant had failed to establish such fact to court. According to the

finding of the trial judge the money had been deposited several years after

the institution of this action. Consequently, the money had been deposited in

3

the Tissamaharama T.e. only in 1990. According to the own evidence of

the appellant he had not paid rents for the period alleged by the plaintiff. A

tenant cannot make repairs or alterations to the premises without the consent

~t-of the Land Lord and have that sum deducted from the rent. It is " land lord's

duty to effect repairs and maintain the premises in habitable condition. If

however, this duty is neglected the Rent Board of the area to which the

premises belong is empowered in terms of section 13(1) of the Rent Act 7 of

1972 to make order directing the land lord to provide amenities discontinued

or with held or to carry out such repairs or decoration as may be specified in

the order made by the Rent Board on an application made to it by the tenant,

or upon an inspection of such premises carried out by it or under its'

authority. If however, the land lord fails to effect repairs or redecoration

ordered then Board is entitled to authorize the tenant 'to carry out such

repairs or redecoration and to incur for the purpose of expenditure not

exceeding such amount as may be specified in that behalf in the order."

The law as it stands today after the Rent (amendment) Act No 55 of 1980, is

that in the event of the land lord effecting repairs he is entitled to charge

from the tenant 120 per cent of the sums so spent spread over a period of

five years after sanction is obtained from the Rent Board for such increase in

the rent. It is then apparent that in the case of rent controlled premises the

4

the rent. It is then apparent that in the case of rent controlled premises the

tenant is not entitled to set off any sum whatsoever in respect of repairs

effected. Additionally, none of the additions or alterations have been

sanctioned by the land lord. It is not the tenant's contention that he sought

the approval of the Local authority for provision of such amenities. The

tenant is not as of right entitled seek amenities which he never enjoyed at the

commencement of the tenancy. In the circumstances the tenant is not entitled

to improve the tenanted premises without the knowledge of but at the

expense of the land lord and contrary to the provisions of the Housing and

Town Improvement Ordinance.

Appeal dismissed.

fLLC~ Rohini Marasmghe J

Judge of the Court of Appeal.

5

I i I I I i I I

~