==== BLOCKS ==== 

I

I I

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 821 / 2000 (F)

D.C. Negombo No. 4490/ L

Kandaiya Rajaratnam, No. 121, Main Street, Negombo.

Vs.

Plaintiff

1. Rajendran kanendran, No. 12, Visthrin Mawatha, Negombo. 2. Rita Maheshwaree, (deceased)

2a.Mariyadas Mary Jospin Pabida, No. 5917, Canal Bank West, Negombo.

Defendants

And Now Between

1. Rajendran Kanendran, No. 12, Visthrin Mawatha, Negombo. 2. Rita Maheshwaree, (deceased)

2a.Mariyadas Mary Jospin Pabida, No. 5917, Canal Bank West, Negombo.

Defendant-Appellants Vs

Kandaiya Rajaratnam, No. 121, Main Street, Negombo.

Plaintiff -Respondent

I II

r

\

I

i

\ I

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

Defendant Appellants - Absent and

Unrepresented

S. Panchadsaram for the Plaintiff

Respondent

05.09.2013

12.11.2013

The Plaintiff Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the Respondent)

instituted an action against the Defendant Appellants (hereinafter referred to as the

Appellants) in the District Court of Negombo seeking for a declaration of title to

the land described in the schedule to the plaint and to eject the Appellants from the

said land. The Appellants filed an answer denying the averments contained in the

plaint and praying for a dismissal of the Respondent's action. The case proceeded

to trial upon 22 issues. After trial, the learned Additional District Judge has

delivered judgement in favour of the Respondent as prayed for in the plaint. Being

aggrieved by the said judgment dated 16.10.2000 the Appellants have preferred the

present appeal to this court.

In paragraph 04 of the petition of appeal the Appellants have set out

several grounds of appeal. It seems from the said grounds of appeal that the main

)

I I

I

\

\

~ F

~

\ I f r !

~ ,

3

grievance of the Appellants was that the learned Additional District Judge has

failed to evaluate the evidence adduced on behalf of the Appellants. I now consider

the said grounds of appeal.

At the trial the Respondent has produced his title deeds marked P 1

and P 2. Said title deeds have not been challenged by the Appellants. The

Appellants' position was that the 2nd Appellant was the statutory tenant of the

premises in suit. But the Appellants have failed to adduce evidence to prove the

tenancy.

In the absence of such evidence I am of the view that the Appellant

have failed to prove their case on a balance of probability. Hence I see no reason to

interfere with the judgement of the learned Additional District Judge dated

16.10.2000. Therefore I dismiss the appeal of the Appellants with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

I I i ,

~ i I

i