==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A No. 454I98 (F) D.C. Colombo Case No. 4216 I SPL

P. Charlie Fernando No. 495, Anura Mawatha, Hokandara North, Hokandara. (Deceased)

Plaintiff- Respondent P. Sunil Fernando 102, 1st Lane, Kandy Road, Wedamulla, Kelaniya.

Petitioner Vs. Colombo North Regional Transport Board No. 200/30, Kirula Road, Colombo 05.

Defendant -Appellant-Respondent Panawennage Ranjani Fernando Panawennage lranganiFernando 494/B, Hokandara North, Hokandara.

Respondants

r

C.A.No.454/98(F)

Before

Counsel

Argued & Decided on

K.T.Chitrasiri, J.

D.C. Colombo No.4216/Spl

K.T.Chitrasiri, J.

S.Karunadhara for the Petitioner

Anusha Nandasena with Mr.Palitha Mathew for the 3rd

and 4th -Respondents

28.01.2013

Mr.Karunadhara who appears for the petitioner P.Sunil Fernando

was directed on the last occasion to file substitution papers in order to

substitute the heirs of the deceased plaintiff-respondent. He was directed

to file papers, two weeks before today after having issued notice to the

persons sought to be substituted.

The appellant in this case is not being represented. It is the duty of

the appellant to take necessary steps such as substitution to proceed with

the appeal. The Registrar of this Court has sent notices on several occasions

to the appellant directing him to be present in this Court but has failed to do

so. Accordingly, it is clear that the appellant does not prosecute the appeal

diligently.

1

In these circumstances it is evident that no steps have been taken to

substitute the heirs of the deceased plaintiff-respondent either by the heirs

of the deceased plaintiff-respondent or by the defendant-appellant.

Therefore Court decides that the appellant is not prosecuting the appeal

diligently. Accordingly, acting upon Rule 34 of the Supreme Court Rules,

Court makes an order abating the appeal

Accordingly the proceedings in this Court is terminated.

Appeal abated and proceedings terminated ..

JUDGE OFT

KLP/-

2