==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA C. A. No. 861/97(F) D.C. Kurunegala Case No. 4010/L

T.C.P. Kirunayake

Petitioner Vs. P.Y. James

Respondent

c. A. No. 861/97(F) D.C. Kurunegala Case No. 4010/L

Before K. T. Chitrasiri, J &

W.M.M. Malinie Gunarathne, J.

Counsel Ranjan Suwandarathne for the Plaintiff-Appellant.

Mahanama de Silva with Ms. Nadeeka Senanayake

For the Substituted-Defendant-Respondent

Argued &

Decided on 19.09.2014

*********

K. T. Chitrasiri, J.

Learned Counsel for the Substituted-Defendant-Respondent

raising a preliminary objection submits that the order made on the

13.06.1997 by the learned District Judge substituting Kaluarachchilage

Wimalawathie as the Substituted-Defendant is erroneous. He further

submits that in the application made on 13.06.1997, in order to have

the aforesaid Wimalawathie substituted, the plaintiff has failed to mention

that the person sought to be substituted is the legal heir of the

deceased- defendant. Learned Counsel for the appellant concedes that the

defendant Wimalawathie who was substituted was not legally married to the

deceased defendant.

1

J

;[f,

!

I

f

I r!

rII

)I

Section 398(1) of the Civil Procedure Code stipulates that if the

survIvmg defendant die before the decree is entered and when the right

to sue in the cause of action survIves, it is the duty of the Court to

substitute any person in place of the deceased-defendant whom he alleges to

be his/her legal representative. In Section 394(2), the words legal

representative is defined. Accordingly, the legal representative means "an

executor or administrator or in the case of an estate below the value

of Rs. 20,000/= the next -of-kin who have alienated to the inheritance."

At this stage, it is necessary to note that in the petition dated

13.06.1997 an application had been made for the purpose of substituting the

heirs of the deceased defendant stating that the person sought to be

substituted namely Wimalawathie was the widow of the deceased

defendant. However, neither the marriage certificate nor any other evidence

had been produced to court in order to establish that she is the legal

representative of the deceased defendant. We also have perused the journal

entry made by the learned District Judge by which substitution had been

effected and found that the Counsel who appeared for the petitioner

has orally mentioned that she is the wife of the deceased defendant.

Counsel for the respondent submits that the deceased was not legally married

Wimalawathie. Those facts are not being disputed by the learned Counsel for

the appellant too.

2

In the circumstances, we are of the VIew that the learned

District Judge, on 13.06.1997 has failed to consider the provisions

contained in the Civil Procedure Code when he made order substituting

Kamalawathi in the room of the deceased-defendant. Accordingly, we set

aside the order dated 13.06.1997 made by the learned District Judge

substituting Kaluarachchilage Wimalawathie

In view of the order made today, all the proceedings recorded, on

13.06.1997 and thereafter including the judgment dated 02.10.1997 are made

invalid and those will have no effect or force. Accordingly, we direct the

learned District Judge to effect the substitution in terms of the law

referred in section 398 read with 394 when an application IS made in

that connection by the plaintiff and then to proceed with the action.

Judgment of the learned District Judge of dated 02.10.1997 IS set

aside. There will be no costs.

Appeal allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

M.M.M. MaUnie Gunarathne, J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

AKN

3