==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A 19111997(F) D.C. Mahawa 4084

L.B. Finance Company No. 101, Vidyalankara Mawatha, Colombo 10.

PLAINTIFF

Vs.

1. M. K. Walisinghe Kelin Veediya Galgamuwa ..

2. H. M.Herath Banda Kattakaduwa Kolaniya Galgamuwa ..

3. H. M. Kapuru Banda Saliya Ashokapura, Galgamuwa.

DEFENDANTS

And now between

M. S. B. S. M. Ajith Senanayake No. 238, Saliya Ashokapura,

Galgamuwa.

CLAIMANT -PETITIONER-APPELLANT

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERA TNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J.

Vs.

L.B. Finance Company No. 101, Vidyalankara Mawatha,

Colombo 10.

PLAINTIFF -RESPONDENT

A. Devendra for the Claimant-Appellant

K. Peiris for the Respondent-Respondent

02.09.2011

27.10.2011

2

Appeal to this court anses on a claim being preferred to

property seized in execution of a decree where judgment was entered against

the 3rd Defendant in District Court, Colombo Case No. 99763. In the said

District Court case action was instituted by the Respondent Company (L.B.

Finance Ltd) against three Defendants in a money case and District Court

held against the 3 rd Defendant. Writ was issued by the District Court,

Colombo in execution of decree to the Fiscal District Court Mahawa. The

3

Fiscal in execution of writ had entered the house of the Claimant-Petitioner-

Appellant and taken over and seized certain properties alleged to be owned

by the said Claimant-Appellant-Petitioner (hereinafter referred to as the

Appellant). A claim was preferred in terms of Section 241 of the Civil

Procedure Code against such seizure and the learned District Judge, Mahawa

investigated such claim and pronounced his order on or about 11.11.1996.

Appeal is against the said order.

The order of the learned District Judge inter alia refer to the fact

that except for item 6 & 8 of the list of properties, the Appellant had not

been able to satisfactorily prove that he own the items referred to in the list

of properties. In this regard Appellant was able to produce receipts. The

learned District Judge only allowed the claim made by the Appellant for a

ceiling fan and a television set but disallowed the claims on other items.

At the hearing of this appeal learned Counsel for Plaintiff-

Respondent-Respondent raised a preliminary objection and refer to Section

247 of the Civil Procedure Code and submitted that once an application is

made in terms of Section 241 of the Code and the District Court after

investigation pronounce an order in terms of Section 245 of the Code one

could only have recourse to the procedure available under Section 247 of the

4

Civil Procedure Code and file a regular action in the District Court and no

appeal shall lie.

However both counsel on either side made submissions on the

entire case itself and the above preliminary objection.

The learned counsel for Appellant submitted inter alia the

following:

(a) claim to property could be disallowed only if court is satisfied of the

ingredients in Section 245 of the Civil Procedure Code. i.e property

seized if it was in the possession of the judgment debtor as his own or

some other held in trust for judgment debtor etc.

(b) Court should have released all the properties III the manner

contemplated under Section 244 of the Code.

(c) In proving (b) above learned counsel suggest that at the closure of the

inquiry, documents were not objected by the opposing party.

Counsel refer to Wanigaratne and another vs. Wanigaratne 1997 (2)

S.L.R 267.

Held:

Per Edussuriya, J.

(1) Deed PII though marked subject to proof was not objected to when the

respondents case was closed reading in evidence PI-PI7.

"Where no objection is taken when a document is read in evidence at the closure of the case to a document which had been marked subject to proof the earlier objection is deemed to have been waived".

In any event, the Notary gave evidence and had stated that she knew the Donor, Donee and the two attesting witnesses.

5

Sri Lanka Ports Authority Jugolinija - Boal East 1981 (1) SLR at 23124 ...

When PI was marked during the trial objection was taken "as the author of PI has not

been called". I take it, what was meant was, that PI be rejected unless the author was

called to prove the document. Counsel for the respondent closed his case leading in

evidence PI and P2. There was no objection to this by counsel for the appellants who

then proceeded to lead his evidence. If no objection is taken when at the close of a case

documents are read in evidence they are evidence for all purposes of the law. This is the

cursus curiae of the original Civil Courts. The contents of PI were therefore in evidence

as to facts therein (vide section 457 Administration of Justice Law, No. 25 of 1975) and it

is too late now in appeal to object to its contents being accepted as evidence of facts.

(d) All documents produced by way of receipts should be admitted as

admissible valid evidence and all items should be returned and claim

of appellant should be allowed.

(e) Section 247 of the Civil Procedure Code does not take away his right

of appeal. The wording in Section 247 is directory and not mandatory.

The right to file a regular action is in the discretion of the party as it

states ... may institute an action. The party concerned would have the

option to proceed on the regular procedure if he so desires.

I would at this point of this judgment refer to the following case law,

although the written submissions filed by the Appellant dated 27.9.2011

gives further material which will be dealt in this judgment at a later stage.

6

Juwanis v. Engo Nona, (1926) 8 Law Recorder 45.

Where a claimant fails to institute an action - Property sold pending claim

proceedings - Revisionary powers of the Supreme Court.

Where an unsuccessful claimant, applies to the Supreme Court to revise the Order

of the Commissioner of Requests in the belief that the remedy under Section 247

is not available, the revisionary powers of the Supreme Court may be exercised in

favour of the petitioner.

Adarahamy v. Abraham, (1907) 2 A.C.R. 120.

Test of jurisdiction - When contestatio arises - Character of action.

In an action under Section 247 of the Civil Procedure Code the test of jurisdiction

is the amount due on the writ at the date of seizure.

The contestatio arises at that date and an action under Section 247 is in its

character rather an appeal from the decision in the claim inquiry than a new and

substantive action.

Chettiar vs. Coonghe 35 N.L.R 89 at 91 (Koch AJ).

I am in entire agreement with the judgment of my Lord the Acting Chief Justice,

and would wish to add that the fundamental fact that has to be ascertained in an

action under section 247 of the Civil Procedure Code, when instituted by a

judgment-creditor, is whether the property seized was liable to be sold under the

writ of the plaintiff. This would depend on whether the judgment-debtor had a

seizable interest in the property at the moment of seizure-section 247 of the Civil

Procedure Code. The institution of an action under section 247 follows on the

result of a claim inquiry under sections 242, 243, 244 and 245. The claim

investigated under these sections is made under section 241, which provides for

such "a claim being preferred against a seizure". The claim made is the

"objection" to the seizure being effected; so that the rights of parties have to be

ascertained at a period of time immediately anterior to the act of seizure.

7

This view is supported by the decisions of this Court in Abubacker v. Tikiri

Banda, which followed a judgment of a Bench of three Judges in Silva v. Nona

Hamine

Amadoris vs. Nendo 7 NLR 333 Supreme Court will exercise

it's power of revision in order to set aside an order releasing property from

seizure, who such order is wholly based on a misapprehension.

Silva vs. Ibrahim Rawtor 10 N.L.R. 56

An unsuccessful claimant is entitled to maintain an action under section 247 of

the Civil Procedure Code, notwithstanding the fact that at the date of such action

the property, which is the subject of seizure and claim, has already been sold by

the Fiscal under the execution creditor's writ.

Silva vs. Nonahamine 10 N.L.R 44

An unsuccessful claimant to a property seized cannot maintain an action under

section 247 if he had no right to such property at the date of the seizure, even

although he might have acquired title subsequently. The general rule is the claim of

the litigant must be determined according to his rights and the law existing at the

date of the action.

Peiris vs Peiris 9 N.L.R 189

A dismissal of a claim on the ground that it was improperly made is not an order

falling under section 244, 245 or 246 of the code and claimant in such a case is

not obliged to bring an action under this section 0 establish his rights to the

property claimed.

Mohideen vs The proprietor of the Kellie Group 18 N .L.R 506

An order under section 247 is not appealable without leave being obtained.

8

An order under Section 247 IS not appealable without leave

being obtained.

Marikkar vs Perera 29 N.L.R 61

Where upon a claim being preferred under section 241 of the Civil Procedure

Code, the judge dismissed the claim, after obtaining certain information from the

secretary of court

Held, that the order disallowing the claim was not conclusive as to the title

of the claimant if no action under section 247 was brought.

Bala Menika vs. Abeysena 46 N .L.R 377

In an action under section 247 of the Civil Procedure Code brought by an

unsuccessful claimant the burden rests on him to prove that at the date of seizure

he had the right which he claims.

In the written submissions the claimant Appellate state that in

terms of Article 13 8( 1) of the Constitution this court derives power and as

such has jurisdiction to hear this appeal. Provisions of the Civil Procedure

Code cannot curtail this wide appellate powers of the Court of Appeal.

Article 138(1) reads thus:

138 (1) The Court of Appeal shall have and exercise subject to the provisions of the

Constitution or of any law, an appellate jurisdiction for the correction of all errors in fact

or in law which shall be (committed by the High Court, in the exercise of its appellate or

original jurisdiction or by any Court of First Instance), tribunal or other institution and

sole and exclusive cognizance, by way of appeal, revision and restitutio in integrum, of

all causes, suits, actions, prosecutions, matters and things (of which such High Court,

Court of First Instance) tribunal or other institution may have taken cognizance.

9

Emphasis is made on the Section 247 of the Civil Procedure

Code on the use of the words 'may institute an action.

The following material are further submitted III the written

submissions.

According to the Section 244 of the Civil Procedure Code, if the court is satisfied on

following grounds, the court shall release the property wholly or to such extent as it

thinks fit

a. When seized, property was not in the possession of the Judgment-Debtor

b. If it was in Judgment-Debtor's possession, not on his own account or as

his won property but on account or in trust for some other person

c. If it was in Judgment-Debtor's possession, partly on his own account and

partly on account of some other person

The Respondent at the inquiry did not give evidence and thus had failed to satisfy Court

the ingredients in Section 244 in any manner and thus the learned District Judge was

erroneous in his findings. Further it is submitted the learned District Judge in his order

had failed to even consider the requirements of Section 244 of the Civil Procedure Code

in refusing the claim of the Appellant in respect of most of the items so claimed.

If the court is satisfied that the property was at the time it was seized,

a. In possession of judgment debtor as his own property and not on account of any

other person

b. Was in the possession of some other person in trust for him

c. In the occupancy of a tenant or other person paying rent to him

Court shall disallow the claim according to the Section 245 of the Civil Procedure

Code.

10

That according to the Provisions of the law the Appellant has executed his burden to be

entitled to the property seized while the Respondent have failed in the obligation to

satisfy Court that the said claim should fail.

The Respondent at the inquiry did not give evidence and thus had failed to satisfy Court

the ingredients in Section 244 in any manner and thus the learned District Judge was

erroneous in his findings. Further it is submitted the learned District Judge in his order

had failed to even consider the requirements of Section 244 of the Civil Procedure Code

in refusing the claim of the Appellant in respect of most of the items so claimed.

A date for written submissions was moved by both counsel.

Only the written submissions of the Claimant-Appellant was filed by

27.9.2011. Court cannot put off judgments on account of delay in filing

written submissions. Usually delay in delivery of judgments and

postponement of cases, blame goes initially to the judiciary, but in todays

context parties could refer to various reasons other than blaming courts, for

delays. Nevertheless I would consider the preliminary objection firstly

although written submissions of Respondent was not received by me even on

30th instant. However a delay in filing, cannot be taken to reject the case of

the Respondent.

Section 241 of the Code deals with claims to property seized

and provision is made for the court to investigate such claim at an inquiry in

a summary manner. The follow up to Section 241 is found in Sections 242 -

245. Under section 244 court could release the property claimed and under

11

Section 245 disallow the claim after investigation. The question is whether

there is a right of appeal to the dissatisfied party? The Draftsman of these

provisions and the legislature had not included a provision to enable parties

to appeal or to state that there is no such right of appeal. It is silent. Does it

mean that one could infer or imply a right of appeal to a party dissatisfied?

In comparison I prefer to look at Section 328 of the Civil Procedure Code

relating to claims of bone fide possessors who are dispossessed. Effect of

final order under Section 326, 327 & 328 is subject to same conditions of

appeal. As such denial of a right of appeal is embodied in the section itself.

(Section 329)

This court was invited to consider article 138 of the

Constitution. No doubt it is an enabling provision. One cannot fortify his

argument by merely referring to Article 138 of the Constitution. I think there

need to be specific provisions embodied in the legal provisions itself to rely

on ones right of appeal.

In Martin vs. Wijewardena 1989(2) S.L.R 410 ...

Held:

(1) A right of appeal is a statutory right and must be expressly created and granted by

statute. It cannot be implied. Article 138 is only an enabling Article and it confers

the jurisdiction to hear and determine appeals to the Court of Appeal. The right to

avail of or take advantage of that jurisdiction is governed by the several statutory

provisions in various Legislative Enactments.

12

(2) Section 18 of the Agrarian Services Act No. 58 of 1979 does not provide for nor

does it create a right of appeal in a tenant cultivator who is aggrieved by the Order

of the Commissioner to pay up his arrears to the landlord before a stipulated date.

Further Article 138 of the Constitution does not confer on such a tenant cultivator

a right of appeal.

(3) While the Agrarian Services Act No. 58 of 1979 s. 5(6) provides for an appeal (on

a point of law only) from a decision of the Commissioner given at an eviction

inquiry, no such right of appeal is provided for a party aggrieved by the Order of

the Commissioner of Agrarian Services at an inquiry into the non-payment of

rent. No appeal lies from any Orders made under section 18 of the Agrarian

Services Act.

This seems to be a question of interpreting the relevant legal

provision. "The courts will not invent an appellate jurisdiction where none is

given (to it by statute) Vythialingam J. Indian Bank Ltd. vs. Sri Lanka

Shipping Company Ltd. 79 NLR 1, 15.

This right cannot be implied Palakindar 1. 1989 (2) SLR 409, 419

Gamhewa Vs. Maggie Nona 1982 (2) SLR 250, 252; case of Monrovia vs.

Oilbome Shipping Co. 1978-79 2 SLR 293, 300. The right of appeal must be

expressly stated. Perera J. 16 NLR 312 Tillakawardena Vs. Obeysekera 33

NLR 193, 196. However, to be an express provision, it is not necessary that

the thing should be specially mentioned. It is sufficient that it is directly

covered by the language however broad the language by which covers it so

13

long as the applicability arises directly from the language used and not by

inference therefrom. See Shanmugam vs. Commissioner of Registration of

Indian and Pakistani Residents (1962) 64 NLR 29,33.

As such I have to take the view that there is no right of appeal to the

Claimant-Appellant. However he would not have been without a remedy

since recourse to Section 247 was available within a stipulated time. (refer to

Chettiar vs. Coonghe). But if I take this case forward I am convinced that

revisionary powers of this court could be exercised in this situation. There

cannot be a bar to exercise revisionary powers by the Court of Appeal in a

given situation, in the interest of justice.

In case of exercising revisionary powers usually exceptional

circumstances should be shown to the satisfaction of court.

Peter Singho vs. Costa 1992 (1) S.L.R. 50 at 53 a case where

Petition of Appeal tendered outside the stipulated period.

At 53 ...

The learned Counsel for the appellant invited us to consider the appeal on the

merits of the case, despite the preliminary objections in this appeal. He relied on the

decision in the case of Abdul Cader v. Sittinisa where the Supreme Court was of the view

that where an appeal did not conform to Civil Appellate Rules, to allow the matter to be

i I l f t

t I I I I I I t

~ t ! l III ! I t

r I l , f ! I I

14

heard in Revision, as the Respondent had not been prejudiced. Such revisionary powers

could be exercised only in exceptional cases (Rustom v. Hapangama). We are not

unmindful of these decisions. We have perused the proceedings and the judgment of the

learned District Judge and we find no reasons to interfere with his judgment and we find

no exceptional circumstances to act in revision.

Abdul Cader Vs. Sittinisa 52 N.L.R 536

(i) The appellant, when he made his application for typewritten copies under

Rule 2 of the Civil Appellate Rule, 1938, tendered by mistake Rs. 20 instead

of Rs. 25 which was the appropriate sum according to the Schedule.

As no objection was taken either by the Court Secretary or by the respondents,

the sum tendered was accepted and the record was duly forwarded to the

Supreme Court.

On objection taken in appeal, under Rule 4 (a) of the Civil Appellate Rules,

that the appeal had abated in consequence of the failure to tender the proper

sum of Rs. 25 -

Held, that as the respondents had not been in any manner prejudiced the appellant should,

as a matter of indulgence, be heard by way of revision.

Observations regarding the urgent need for the amendment of the Civil Appellate

Rules so as to enable the Court to grant relief to the appellant in a case where a technical

breach of the rules has caused no prejudice to the other side.

At pg. 545 ...

With regard to the preliminary objection raised by Mr. Jayawardene to the

constitution of this appeal, I agree so entirely with the observations made by my

brother Pulle in his separate judgment that it is unnecessary to add to anything

I 1

l 1

1 i~ I

1 ,

1 ! I I

1

~ j I I I I I I

I I i ! j I I j

I

1 I j

15

which he has said. It is very much to be hoped that the Civil Appellate Rules will

be amended at any early date so as to authorize Judges to grant relief to appellants

where, as in this case, a technical breach of the rules has caused no prejudice to

the other side. To my mind, it would be a travesty of justice if some mere

technicality were to deprive a party of his right of appeal to the Supreme Court

from a judgment which seriously affects his interest. Until the present rule is

relaxed, I see no reason why the revisionary powers of this Court should not be

exercised in appropriate cases.

The Respondent in the written submissions vehemently object

to the Claimants-Appellant's application by way of appeal. Several positions

with authorities are discussed. This court has expressed the view that the

Claimant-Petitioner-Appellant has no right of appeal. However I cannot

agree with the critical analysis of the learned counsel for Respondent in his

written submissions and I am compelled to reject all those arguments

relating to the dicta in the case of Sri Lanka Ports Authority and Another vs.

Jugolinia Boal East. The cursus Curiae of the original court is that if no

objection is taken at the close of a case when documents are read in evidence

they are evidence for all purposes of the law. I do not wish to go beyond this

case and express a view that it is not full proof. What flow from the dicta in

the above case is not merely admitting a document in evidence, but it is for

all purposes of the law, evidence in the case and court is bound to act upon

and recognize the material elicited.

I

f

16

In the case in hand I cannot see any objection recorded to

documents, as and when it was marked. Instead after producing the 3rd

document (3 B)®) it is recorded that all documents are to be marked subject

to proof. Strictly this is not the correct procedure. Then on the last date of

evidence (27.6.1996) it is recorded that the claimant has closed his case

marking documents BJ® 1 - B)® 13.

The opposing party has not offered to object to these

documents. As and when documents are marked parties are required to

object and at the closure of the case of Plaintiff or Defendant as the case may

be, when documents are read in evidence, objection to a document or several

of them need to be recorded. It is a practice developed from time

immemorial in the original court. All courts are bound to recognize this

practice.

The latest case on this aspect reported in 2011 Bar Association

Law Reports at pg. 204. Latheef and another Vs. Mansoor, recognized this

principle. (though in that case for good reasons it was not possible to adopt

the procedure since there was no strict application of the procedure). The

following extract from the above judgment to be noted.

17

There remains, however, one more matter on which learned Counsel for the

contending parties have made submissions, which was raised in the context that

the usual practice of reading in evidence the documents that were marked and

produced at the trial in the course of witness testimony was not followed when the

case for the Respondents was closed on 2ih April 1993. This is substantive

question 5, which specifically focuses on this issue, namely: is it mandatory to

read the documents in evidence at the conclusion of the trial? There is no

provision in the Civil Procedure Code that mandates the reading in of the marked

documents at the close of the case of a particular party. However, learned and

experienced Counsel who have appeared in the original courts in civil cases from

time immemorial developed such a practice, which has received the recognition of

our courts. For instance, in Sri Lanka Ports Authority and Another v. Jugolinija-

Boat East (1981) 1 Sri LR 18 Samarakoon, C.J., commented on this practice, and

ventured to observe at pages 23 to 24 of his judgment that if no objection to any

particular marked documents is taken when at the close of a case documents are

read in evidence, "they are evidence for all purposes of the law." It has been held

that this is the cursus curiae of the original courts. See, Silva v. Kindersle (1915-

1916) 18 NLR 85; Adaicappa Chettiar v. Thomas Cook and Son (1930) 31 NLR

385 Perera v. Seyed Mohomed (1957) 58 NLR 246; Balapitiya Gunananda Thero

v. Tolalle Methananda Thero (1997) 2 Sri LR 101; Cinemas Limited v.

Sounderarajan (1998) 2 Sri LR 16; Stassen Exports Ltd., v. Brooke Bond Group

Ltd., and Two Others (2010) BLR 249.

The law requires the Claimant-Appellant to prove that he had

some interest in the item seized and he is possessed of those times (vide

Section 243). Strictly ownership to property need not be proved. The learned

District Judge has considered an irrelevant aspect of the case, stating the

claimant had not proved residence or the residence of his father (debtor), and

18

in this regard the Claimant-Appellant has not even produced the electoral

list. Section 243 does not require one to prove residence. All items seized

are movable properties. Law requires only an interest to be proved in the

properties seized. As discussed above, by law the documentary evidence

would be acceptable and it would be evidence for all purposes of the law.

Therefore the claimant cannot be deprived of his legal entitlement. In a

situation as this and in these circumstances the party litigant should not be

deprived of his legal right merely by taking up a legal objection on his right

of appeal (though cannot be faulted) and deny his rightful valid claim

recognized by law. As such this court could use it's inherent powers and act

in revision. I would interfere with the judgment of the District Judge

substantially on a point of law.

It appears to me that there is a miscarriage of justice. As such

wide powers of the Appellate Court should not be ignored or curtailed in a

case of this nature. I refer to the following case law

Leslie Silva vs. Perera 2005(2) SLR 184

Held:

(i) The Court after deciding that issue No. 13 is not a pure question of law erred

by answering the issues in the negative

(ii) In terms of Section 40(d), the Plaint should contain a statement as to where

and when the cause of action arose and is not a fact which should be kept to

19

be disclosed at the trial. The Plaint, it is apparent does not say as to when the

purported action arose.

(iii) No other evidence/documents are required to decide whether the plaint is

drawn out in compliance with Section 40( d) - this is a fatal defect which goes

to the root of the case.

(iv) The Defendant Petitioner has invoked the revisionary jurisdiction to avert a

miscarriage of justice caused to him by the error committed by the trial Judge,

and in the circumstances, this is a fit and proper instant to exercise the

revisionary jurisdiction.

Per Somawansa, J. (P/CA)

"the error committed by the trial judge by answering Issue No. 13 in the negative

without giving a hearing and in fact according to the reasons given by her she

could not have answered the said Issue in any event without considering evidence

.... Is a clear and unforgivable error committed by the trial Judge ...... "

At pgs.190/191 ....

Atukorale vs. Samyanathan 41 NLR 165

"The powers given to the Supreme Court by way of revision are wide enough to

give the right to revise any order made by an original court whether an appeal has been

taken against it or not.

This right will be exercised in a case which an appeal is pending only in

exceptional circumstances as for example, to ensure that the decision given on appeal is

not rendered nugatory"

20

Silva vs Silva 44 NLR 494

"The Supreme Court has the power to revise and order made by an original court

even where an appeal has been taken against that order.

In such a case the court will exercise its jurisdiction only in exceptional

circumstances and in order to ensure that the decree given in appeal is not rendered

nugatory"

Sinnathangam vs. Meeramohaideen 60 NLR 394

"The Supreme Court possesses the power to set aside, in revision, an erroneous

decision of the District Court in an appropriate case even though and appeal against such

decision has been correctly held to have abated on the ground on non compliance with

come of the technical requirements in respect of the notice of security.

In this respect I would say it is settled law and our Courts time and again has held

that the revisionary jurisdiction of this Court is wide enough to be exercised to avert any

miscarriage of justice irrespective of availability remedy or inordinate delay.

In the case of Ganapandithan vs Balanayagam an application was made to the

Court of Appeal to set aside the judgment in a partition action after 2 ~ years was

disallowed mainly on the ground of undue delay which remained unexplained. In appeal

to the Supreme Court the appeal was allowed as the judgment of the learned District

Judge was manifestly wrong and the order of the Court of Appeal also was set aside as it

had focused only on the question of delay and not on the merits. Per G.P.S. de Silva, CJ

at pages 397/398.

"On a consideration of the proceedings in this case. I hold that there has been miscarriage

of justice. The object of the power of revision as stated by Sansoni, C.J in Marian bee bee

vs .. Seyed Mohamed at 389 "is the due administration of justice ..... " In the words Soza J,

in Somawatie vs. Madawala and others at 30 and 31. "The court will not hesitate to use

21

its revisionary powers to give relief where as miscarriage of justice has occurred .....

Indeed the facts of this case cry aloud for the intervention of this court to prevent what

otherwise would be a miscarriage of justice. "The words underlined above are equally

applicable to the present case. I am accordingly of the view that the Court of Appeal was

in serious error when it declined to exercise its revisionary powers having regard to the

very special and exceptional circumstances of this partition case."

Also per Sansoni, CJ in the case of Marian Beebee V s. Seyed Mohamed (Supra) 68 NLR

36 at 38

"The power of revision is an extraordinary power which is quite independent of

and district from the appellate jurisdiction of this Court. Its object is the due

administration of justice and the correction of errors, sometimes committed by this Court

itself, in order to avoid miscarriages of justice. It is exercised in some case by a Judge of

his own motion, when an aggrieved person who may not be a party to the action brings to

his notice the fact that, unless the power is exercised, injustice will result. The Partition

Act has not, conceive, made any change in the respect, and the power can still be

exercised in respect of any order or decreed of a lower Court."

The other decided case that has considered the legal position

with several authorities is the case of Rustom v. Hapangama & Co. 1978179

2 SLR 225 (though did not permit to revise).

Held (1)

(1) The powers by way of revision conferred on the Appellate Court are very wide

and can be exercised whether an appeal has been taken against an order of the

original Court or not. However, such powers would be exercised only in

exceptional circumstances where an appeal lay and as to what such exceptional

circumstances are is dependent on the facts of each case.

22

At pg. 229 ....

It is of course not possible to define with precision what matters would amount to

exceptional circumstances and what would not. Nor is it desirable, in a matter which rests

so much on the discretion of the Court to categorise these matters exhaustively or to lay

down rigid, and never to be departed from, rules for their determination. It must depend

entirely on the facts and circumstances of each case and one can only notice the matters

which courts have held to amount to exceptional circumstances in order to find out the

essential nature of these circumstances. It has been held that where the delay in

determining an appeal would render the decision in appeal nugatory the court would act

in revision even if an appeal was pending or available.

At pg. 231 & 232 ....

So that where an order is palpably wrong and it affects the right of a party also,

this Court would exercise its powers of revision to set right the wrong irrespective of

whether an appeal was taken or was available. See in this connection also Ranesinhe v.

Henry (7). Other cases where exceptional circumstances were present are referred to by

Alles, J. in the case of Fernando v. Fernando (8). He said "In the matter of the Insolvency

of Hayman Thornhill (9) the Court was satisfied that the proceedings were conducted in a

most perfunctory manner and that there were a number of irregularities. The 'due

administration of justice' therefore required the exercise of the Court's revisionary

powers. In Sabapathy v. Dunlop (10) the revisionary powers of Supreme Court were

exercised where there was no appeal and where the Court below wrongly passed a decree

on a consent order without satisfying itself of the legality of the agreement which was

challenged on grounds of fraud, fear, mistake, surprise et cetera." at page 550.

In all the above circumstances I have taken the view that the

Appellant has no right of appeal. Nevertheless this is a fit and proper case to

exercise revisionary powers of this court. Due administration of justice

23

requires this court to interfere by way of revisionary powers. Whether it be a

trial or inquiry the original court need to follow and adopt correct procedure

hitherto accepted in the District Court. I have already discussed the

applicability of the famous authority and judgment of C.J., N.D.M.

Samarakoon in the case of Sri Lanka Ports Authority and Another vs.

Jugolinija Boal East. There cannot be a departure from the dicta in the above

case. The claimant Appellant has proved and established the claim made to

several items of movables. He should not be deprived of his right to use

those items and own it merely on technical objections. The case of the

claimant should not be compared or confused with that of the judgment

debtor. Exercising powers in revision I set aside the order of the learned

District Judge dated 11.11.1996 and allow the claim as in the nature of relief

referred to in sub paragraph (ii) of the prayer to the Petition of Appeal with

costs.

24 ,