==== BLOCKS ==== 

•

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C A 857/1999 F

DC MT: LAVINIA: 886/97

Before A.W.A. Salam, J.

WA Cyril,

No 239, High Level Road,

Nawinna , Maharagama

Defendant-Appellant

Vs.

H Sugathadasa,

Sugathadasa Stores, No

296, Angampitiya,

Padukka

Plaintiff-Respondent

Counsel: Mayura Gunawansa for the defendant-appellant and

Upali Almaida for the plaintiff-respondent.

Argued on 10.01.2011

Written Submissions filed on: 01.04.2011

Decided on 06.10.2011

•

f

Abdus Sal~m J.

This is an action filed by the plaintiff to eject the defendant from

land and premises described in the schedule to the plaint and

to obtain peaceful possession thereof based on the premise that

the latter is in unlawful possession of it, despite the termination

of the licence granted to him. The defendant whilst denying

paragraph 3 of the plaint wherein the plaintiff alleged that the

defendant had admitted the licence granted to him, averred in

addition that the plaintiff was not entitled to the subject matter

of the action either upon a deed or by right of inheritance.

Therefore, he urged that if he were to be estopped from denying

the title of the plaintiff, the title to the land in suit ought to have

been pleaded by the plaintiff. As the plaintiff has failed to plead

the title the defendant contended that the action against him

cannot be maintained as it is constituted. Further, the

defendant claimed that he is entitled to the subject matter by

right of long and prescriptive possession.

The trial proceeded mainly on the issue as to whether the

defendant was the licensee of the plaintiff and that the licence

....,

E rc rc lJ') « $ « .-t .-t o N o .-t \£i o

...J " 0'\ ~

00 00 « z

~ ...J

u.. 0'\ 0'\ 0'\ .-t 'j:::-

LI') 00 « u 2

granted to him had been duly terminated. As far as the

substantive relief sought by the defendant is concerned, the

principal issue was whether he had acquired a valid prescriptive

title to the subject matter of the action against the plaintiff.

At the trial the plaintiff gave evidence and led the evidence of a

police constable, an officer from the Maharagama Pradesiya

Sabawa, Handalage Dharmasena and Edirappulige

Sachischandra. The 12 documents produced by the plaintiff in

support of his case were marked as PI to P12. At the conclusion

of the plaintiffs case, the defendant gave evidence and closed

his case without producing any documents.

The learned district judge's fmdings were that the defendant

was in possession of the subject matter of the action as the

licensee of the plaintiff and that it had been duly terminated.

Hence, the trial judge held that the continued possession of the

defendant subsequent to the termination of the licence is

unlawful and therefore is liable to be ejected. In addition, the

trial judge granted the plaintiff damages in a sum of Rs 1000/-

per month as prayed for in the plaint. The issue raised by the

plaintiff as to whether the defendant had fraudulently denied

the licence granted to him was answered in the negative. By

-' i' CJ'\ -U) 00 00 « z

~ .:.: ~ u Cl u.. CJ'\ CJ'\ CJ'\ .... -i' 1.1) 00 « u 3

reason of the finding that the defendant was holding the

property in question as a licensee, it is quite obvious that the

learned district judge had no alternative but to hold against the

defendant on the question of prescription.

As regards the finding of the learned district judge that the

defendant is the licensee under the plaintiff of the subject

matter of the action, no serious argument was placed by the

defendant in opposition. As the finding of the learned district

judge on that issue is based on factual matters arising from the

credibility of the witnesses and the documents produced I am

not inclined to interfere with the said finding as it does not on

the face of it amount to any manifest unreasonableness or

travesty of Justice.

At the hearing of the appeal the learned counsel for the

defendant- appellant placed much reliance on the decision in

Lewis Singho Vs Ponnamperuma 1996(2) SLR 320 in support of

his argument that the plaintiff had failed to establish or plead

his title. The learned counsel of the plaintiff conceded that this

argument no doubt stems from paragraph 3 of the answer

although no issue had been framed relating to the failure of the

plaintiff to plead his title.

-..

E ra ra Vl <I: 3: <I: .-i .-i a N ci .-i o a

u.. O'l O'l O'l .-i r:::-

LIl 00 <I: u 4

t

f i f

f ! II l I

I II I l I I

As has been submitted by the learned counsel of the plaintiff,

what in fact came up for determination in the case of Lewis

Singho (supra) is the nature of the distinction between a rei

vindicatio action and a declaratory action. In that regard it was

held in that case that in a rei vindicatio action the cause of

action is based on the sole ground of violation of the right of

ownership and as such proof is required of the ownership of the

plaintiff in addition to the proof that the land is in the

possession of the Defendant. The court further clarified that in

an action for declaration of title and ejectment the proof that a

plaintiff had enjoyed earlier peaceful possession and that

subsequently he was ousted by the Defendant would give rise to

a rebuttable presumption of title in favour of the Plaintiff and

thus could be classified as an action where dominium need not

s be proved strictly. The main distinction between the two typet., of

cases appears to be that in an action for declaration of title and

ejectment the plaintiff need not sue by right of ownership but

could do so by right of possession and ouster. In fact in such a

case the plaintiffs claim is a possessory remedy rather than the

vindication of ownership".

....,

E ro ro 111 « $ «

M M o N d M lri o ... c CLl E t:lO \:l

::I ....,

u..

CTI CTI CTI M j::::-LI'l 00 « u 5

If

f ! l

I I I t I I ! t I

Vignaswaran, J thus highlighting on the development of law

r

~

~ i stated in that jUdgment that the law permits a person who has

! I, I

~ possessed peacefully but cannot establish clear title or

ownership to be restored to possession and be quieted ill

i I i , I

~

possessIOn.

f

~ , ! f I , The present action, as has been submitted is purely based on

leave and licence granted and is neither a rei vidicatio nor a

~ I I I ,

declaratory action. There are no averments embodied in the t t < plaint with regard to the title of the plaintiff, except a reference

to the doctrine of estoppel in terms of section 116 of the

Evidence Ordinance which lays down that no person who

I

-.. IE III ~ ro t V1 <l: I3 <l:

.-t I came upon any immovable property by the licence of the

person in possession thereof shall be permitted to deny

that such person had a title to such possession at the time

.-t ,0 N a f .-t I.ri I

0

+" C <11

t E tlO "C I ::l -.. when such licence was given.

It is quite appropriate at this stage to refer to the judgement in

the case of Reginal Fernando V s Pabilinahamy and another

2005 SLR 1 38 in which the Supreme Court held inter alia that

upon the plaintiff (licensor) establishing that the defendant is a

licensee, the former is entitled to take steps for ejectment of the

....J I I"-0"1 -t

I.D CXl CXl ::f , , z ~ :> I <l: ....J !

.:.: ~ u 0 I LL. I

0"1 0"1 0"1 .-t -l"-I LIl CXl <l: ~ u i 6 ,

f

• •

latter even in the absence of proof as to the ownership of the

land.

Taking into consideration the overwhelming evidence led by the

plaintiff to establish that the defendant was a mere licensee

warrants the conclusion that his possession subsequent to the

termination of the licence is unlawful and that he is liable to be

ejected as had been decided by the learned district judge.

For the foregoing reasons I am not of the VIew that the

impugned judgment does even scarcely warrant any manner of

intervention by way of exercise of appellate jurisdiction either

on the question of facts or on law. Hence, the instant appeal

should necessarily fail and therefore dismissed subject to costs.

~.-.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Kwkj-

E ro ro V1 « $ «

M ..-l o N o M I.Ci o .....

C Q) E tID "0

::J

u.. 0'\ 0'\ 0'\ M ~ lI' 00 « u

7

t II

f

I I

!

J t It I,

I I

J

III r I I I