==== BLOCKS ==== 

I I J

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 13/2008

H.C. Galle 2187

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake J.

1. Sambatti Rani! Abeysekera (Deceased)

2. Agampodi Dewa Nandana

ACCUSED

And now

Agampodi Dewa Nandana

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

RESPONDENT

Anuja Premaratne with Chamath Wickremasinghe

for the Accused-Appellant

Haripriya Jayasundera D.S.G. for the Respondent

18.03.2014 & 19.03.2014

04.04.2014

1

2

GOONERATNE J.

The 2

nd Accused-Appellant was convicted on a charge of murder and

sentenced to death. Prior to such conviction the Hon. Attorney General

indicted two persons on a charge of murder. However when the High Court set

down the case for trial the 1st Accused died. As such the indictment was

amended to read as the 2nd Accused committed murder along with another

deceased Ranil Abeysekera. It is also noted that as submitted to this court by

learned counsel for Appellant and learned Deputy Solicitor General that the

trial against the 2nd Accused-Appellant was held in absentia under Section 241

of the Criminal Procedure Code since the said 2

nd Accused-Appellant

absconded at a certain point of the trial before the High Court.

The case against the Accused-Appellant rest mainly on a confession

made by the Accused-Appellant to witness No.2 Saumyawathie (mother of the

deceased). On or about 25.1.1998, between 12.00 noon and 1.00 p.m the 2

nd

Accused met witness No.2 and told her that he and Ranil killed him. Learned

counsel for 2nd Accused-Appellant submitted to court, the several

inconsistencies lapses and or the contradiction of witness No. 2 to

3

demonstrate that the evidence of witness No.2 is highly unreliable and that

the only available item of evidence against his client is a confession where

several inconsistent positions were demonstrated. It was the position of

learned counsel for the Appellant that it is unsafe to rely on the evidence of

Saumyawathie to sustain a conviction in view of the several lapses which were

highlighted as follows:

(1) Witness met Ranil Abeysekera (deceased 1st Accused) at Ratgama junction

and asked whether such an incident happened. Ranil answered stating he is

unaware (Pgs. 53/54).

(2) Attention of court drawn to the item of evidence based on confession. That

Accused told the witness, your son (described as a thug) was killed. Son will

not eat rice but would have to eat sand (pg. 4). Then again at pg. 49 witness

more or less repeat above but when questioned as to who killed stated that

Ranil and Accused-Appellant killed. At pgs. 72/73 omissions highlighted

with reference to the non-summary proceedings suggesting above item of

evidence not being testified by witness in the Magistrate's Court.

(3) The Accused-Appellant came by himself and met the witness (came alone).

At a subsequent point (pg. 67) witness state that Accused, Shantha and

Piyadasa met her. Further the above persons gave chase behind her. Next

question put to her she state that the above mentioned persons along with

the Accused-Appellant came chasing behind her. At pg. 68 the witnesses

further state that when the Accused said so Jinadasa, Priyantha and

Shantha assaulted her. Further examination on this point witness again

4

state that only Accused-Appellant came. It was submitted by learned

counsel that the position of being assaulted by the above named persons

were not stated in the police statement or in her testimony before the

learned Magistrate and at pg. 70 an omission on above suggested.

The learned Deputy Solicitor General referred to the evidence of witnesses

Mallika or Ratnaseeli more or less to suggest motive for the killing. It was

submitted that there had been animosity between the parties and in fact witness

No.2 Saumyawathi is a suspect or an Accused in a murder case, involving the

Accused party. However learned Deputy Solicitor General did not specifically

challenge the omissions and inconsistencies in the evidence of the prosecution,

but invited court to items of evidence where the Accused and deceased Ranil and

others had obstructed at the funeral of the deceased and attempted to prevent

and cause disturbance at the funeral and also prior to the funeral even in the

mortuary caused obstructions.

Having perused all the material placed before court by way of

evidence, it is an undisputed fact that there was a continuous serious animosity

between the deceased party and the accused party who are also very close

relatives for a period of time prior to the incident. The evidence that surfaced at

the High Court trial makes it very clear that either party had killed at least one

5

member of each other, prior to the murder in question. In fact the main witness

of the prosecution Saumyawathie is a suspect or an accused in a murder case,

which evidence had not been challenged, and which resulted due to the

animosity between the above parties. As such evidence led at the trial need to be

analysed with the above undisputed fact in mind which could also provide a

motive for both the deceased party as well as the accused party. The other

important matter that should be kept in mind is that merely because witness No.

2 Saumyawathie for the prosecution is an Accused or a suspect in a murder case

should not be held against the said witness merely on that account unless the

chain of events could be connected without a break to each other, which fortify

the prosecution case. It is also undisputed that a conviction could be secured

based on a confession or on reliable items of circumstantial evidence. However in

the context of the case in hand court should be more cautious in view of the

above background facts.

This court wish to observe that the evidence of witness No.2

had not been so consistent. The learned counsel for the 2

nd Accused-Appellant

demonstrated to court the several lapses, omissions and inconsistencies, which

the learned Deputy Solicitor General could not have been able to resist in the

manner evidence was led before the High Court. The confession relied upon by

I

t

! !t II I I II I,

ti

~ II

I

f I i II! I,!i

~ !

f t I I I I

6

the prosecution is very unsatisfactory. The answer to the first and primary

question based on the confession is that Accused told the witness, your son who

is a thug was killed. Only on further questions being put to the witness that she

implicated both the accused. In cross examination on this vital point learned

counsel for the Accused Appellant demonstrate omissions and inconsistencies on

the above items of evidence based on the testimony led at the non-summary

inquiry. I would at this point get on to the documentary evidence to ascertain

whether the confession is at least supported even to a lesser degree by the

postmortem/autopsy report of professor Niriellage Chandrasiri.

The above report indicates almost 25 injuries described as

corresponding to the above cut injuries the cervical spine in neck region is cut at

two places. There are two cut injuries in lower lobe of right lung and four cut

injuries in upper and middle lobes of left lung. It is indicative of a very serious

brutal murder. On the cause of death and other relevant opinion the cause of

death is described as intra thoracic bleeding caused by stab injuries. It also states

injuries have been caused by a single cutting pointed knife. Report states, date,

time and place of death - not known. Examination of the place where body was

found:- site and position of body - not examined.

I

ir1 rI

rIf ! tI! III

I

1

7

It is not necessary for the confession to be supported by the post-

mortem report. But report indicates a brutal murder which would have taken

some time to finish the operation of killing and the deceased party would have

been heavily blood stained. Report support that the accused could not have

committed the murder without some blood stained in his body being

contaminated with the blood of the deceased and most probably accused clothes

he wore should have some blood stains. There is no evidence of blood stains of

the accused party. This would raise a doubt in the confession and testimony of

witness No.2 even though that evidence may not have been led at the trial and

such a question not being posed to witness No.2, prosecution does not give

cogent reasons or give details and events that connect the confession to the

background details of alleged crime. In the absence of above material as referred

to in this judgment inclusive of the version of witness No.2, it would be unsafe to

convict the Accused even in absentia. Further this court observes that witness No.

2 had animosity towards the Accused, as stated above. Though the trial judge

emphasis on motive I state that motive in this instance had turned into a double

edged weapon.

The learned High Court Judge in his judgment base his reasoning on 9

points referred to at pgs. 174/175. I will deal with same as follows:

~

~ f if ,r Iif I II

t1I,II

t!I II

II

8

(1) Confession - it is an unsatisfactory confession as observed above.

(2) & (3) - motive for the murder is a previous killing of Accused brother by

deceased - prior incident of stabbing and by causing injury, by 2nd Accused.

As such it suggest motive, but this instance it could well be that due to the

unsatisfactory nature of confession led through witness No.2 animosity on

either side is apparent, which casts some double in the prosecution version,

though corroboration may not be necessary in murder cases if strong direct

or circumstantial evidence could be led. However in the context of this

case, this court is of the view that there is an absence of some independent

evidence or material to support the confession. In the context and

circumstances under which the confession was elicited independent

corroboration would certainly support the confession. In the absence, it is

unreliable evidence relied upon by the prosecution.

(4) Visit to the scene of crime by 1st Accused and witness No.2, persons

gathered at the scene not prepared to look at the Accused and uttered and

ignored him by saying 1st Accused not present. These are questions of fact

and no reasonable man can conclude as regards the complicity of Accused

No. 1.

(5) (6) & (7) Obstructions caused by the Accused at the funeral under takers, of

bringing the body home and funeral rights held under police protection. It

can suggest animosity but not motive or support the confession the only

item of evidence relied upon by the prosecution.

(8) 1st Accused accompanying the Deceased to obtain a medical report in the

morning and afternoon the murder took place.

(9) Accused absconding from the area and surrendering to court subsequently.

ti II I

I

~ I

9

As regards (8) and (9) I would state that (8) could suggest a preplan

but in the absence of further evidence no inferences could be drawn. On (9)

above only on adverse inference could be drawn but not sufficient and safe to

convict solely on same.

In our view the learned High Court Judge has erred, and it is our view

that the trial judge should not have admitted or acted upon the evidence based

on the confession of an unreliable witness which would have caused great

prejudice to the Accused as the case against him depends on circumstantial

evidence alone. In all the circumstances of this case we do not think that it is safe

to allow the conviction and sentence to stand. As such we quash and set aside the

conviction and sentence and acquit the accused.

Accused acquitted. Appeal allowed.

G1&~:::APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL