==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A. No. 300/2008 H.C.Avissawella No. 29/2002

H.M. Anura

Appellant Vs. Hon. Attorney General Attorney General's Department Colombo-12

Respondent

!

I

C.A. No. 300/2008

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED AND

DECIDED ON

ANIL GOONERATNE, J.

1

H.C.Avissawella No. 29/2002.

ANIL GOONERATNE, J. &

H.C.J. MADAWALA, J.

Tenny Fernando for the Accused-Appellant.

Rohantha Abeysuriya D.S.G. for the respondent.

29th January, 2015.

***********

The accused-appellant has been indicted on three counts in

the High Court of Avissawella. Count No.1 relates to the murder of one

Stephen Perera, an offence punishable under Section 296 of the Penal

Code. Count No.2 refers to a case robbery amounting to a sum of

Rs.l 050/ =cash and cigarettes and a cassette recorder valued as

described in the indictment in a sum of Rs.2500/=, an offence

punishable under Section 380 of the Penal Code. Count No.3 relates to

retention of stolen items as described in the said charge of the

indictment. Learned Deputy Solicitor General submits to Court that

2

Count Nos. 2 and 3 have been drafted in the alternative. We have heard

both Counsel regarding the facts of this case. It is the position of the

learned defence Counsel that the only item of evidence referred to by the

prosecution is a Section 27 recovery. i.e. a recovery of a part of a

cassette tape recorder. Both Counsel agree that the said item namely, a

part of the cassette tape recorder does not belong to the deceased

person. Evidence has transpired in the High Court that the cassette in

question belongs to the bakery owner (as described in the indictment).

The accused party as well as the deceased party were employs of the

bakery run by a person called Hettiarachchige Sanath Chandralal

(PW 1). Learned defence Counsel emphasis the fact that the only item of

evidence as stated above is a Section 27 recovery. Learned Deputy

Solicitor General submits that the accused on the day of the incident

has informed the owner of the bakery that he intends to see a musical

show at Biyagama and on that basis he had left the bakery in the

evemng. Both Counsel submit that the evidence that transpired in the

High Court indicate that the deceased was on the day in question, was

within the premises of the bakery. Learned Deputy Solicitor General

submits that the personal effects of the accused party were removed. The

above observation has been made by the police and the bakery owner. It

is also submitted on behalf of the State that a book which was in the

possession of the bakery owner containing particulars of the accused

party more particularly, the page containing the name and address of

r I ! I I ! I

r f l 1 I J r f I !

t i J. ! f I 1 J t I I f

3

the accused was torn. According to the submissions of learned Deputy

Solicitor General the above are the only items of evidence that the

prosecution has been able to place before the trial Court.

Learned defence Counsel submits that an omission has been

highlighted in the trial Court as regards the position of the accused party

leaving on the day in question to see a musical show. He also submits

that another omission has been highlighted in respect of the missing

piece of the cassette recorder. Learned defence Counsel submits that

the above omission has been referred to by the learned High Court

Judge and according the defence Counsel the 1 st statement made by the

complainant does not refer to any particular part of a cassette recorder.

The dock statement made by the accused-appellant reveals that he has

left the bakery due to the fact that he was not properly paid. That seems

to be the explanation provided by the accused party.

In all the above facts and circumstances of this case, it

would be highly unsafe to act on the evidence placed before the trial

Court. In any event a recovery made under Section27 of the Evidence

Ordinance would only demonstrate that the accused party had the

knowledge and the whereabouts of the fact discovered. Based on that

alone, it is the view of this Court that it would be highly unsafe to convict

the accused-appellant. The evidence placed before the learned High

i I I I i 1

1 i I I (

J

f i I ; t

4

Court Judge does not indicate that the prosecution has proved its case

beyond reasonable doubt. Material is not at all convincing to enable this

Court to affirm the conviction. As such, we set aside the conviction and

sentence and proceed to acquit the accused-appellant.

Appeal allowed.

H.C.J. MADAWALA, J.

I agree.

Kwkj==

6J:fl~~ JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

-e:.-' 'T \LJ~~

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL