==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Nayanalage Wimalasena

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

CA. 62/2007

H.C. Ampara 802/2003

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Sunil Rajapaksa J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDNET

Indika Mallawarachchi for the Accused-Appellant

Kapila Waidyaratne A.S.G. for the Complainant-Respondent

01.04.2014

30.07.2014

1

2

GOONERATNE J.

The Accused-Appellant was indicted for two counts in the High Court

of Ampara for the murder of one Chaminda Ratnayake alias Nissanka and for

attempted murder of M. Dhammika Perera. He was convicted only on the

count of murder and sentenced to death on 21.3.2007. Deceased was a

nephew of the main prosecution witness Dhammika. Accused was a Town

Guard at Pannalagama. The deceased had on the day in question, been

working on the adjoining land of the witness clearing the land with a katty. It is

also said that the Accused also had a field in close proximity to the land and

house of witness No. l.

The prosecution version is that whilst the deceased had been

working on the adjoining land the Accused had come on a bicycle got down

and kept the cycle near the stream and gone across the stream armed with a

gun strapped on to his body, and walked towards where the deceased had

been clearing the land. The witness who was in the garden at that time had

seen the Accused going towards the deceased, had run in that direction.

Witness wanted to speak to the Accused from a distance and the Accused had

3

turned towards the witness and fired a gun shot in the direction of the

witness. The gun shot had been fired from a distance of about 10 meters.

Thereafter the Accused turned towards the deceased and fired several gun

shots and the deceased fell. The witness had told the Accused that she would

go to the nearby camp to inform about the incident and the Accused left the

scene of the crime on his cycle. This seems to be the prosecution story which

attracted lengthy cross-examination of witness No. 1. Case of the prosecution

is based on direct evidence.

Learned counsel for the Accused-Appellant urged the following

points in her oral and written submissions before this court.

1. Rejection of defence evidence by learned High Court Judge is untenable as

the trial Judge relied upon inadmissible evidence.

2. Misdirection of trial Judge comparing the defence evidence with

prosecution evidence and thereby reverse the presumption of innocence.

3. Misdirection on the burden of proof when the defence relied on a special

or general exception.

4. Defence embarked on the defence of private defence prior to conviction.

Trial Judge has not evaluated the defence case.

5. Relies on James Silva Vs. The Republic of Sri Lanka 1980 (2) SLR 167.

It was held that: A satisfactory way to arrive at a verdict of guilt or innocence is

to consider all the matters before the court adduced whether by the prosecution

or by the defence in its totality without compartmentalizing and ask himself

4

whether as a prudent man in the circumstances of the particular case, he

believes the accused guilty of the charge or not guilty.

6. Defence also relies on Kamal Addaraarachchi case 2002 (1) SLR 312

(Court observes that what is stated in the written submissions appears to

be a mistake or misstated, may not be deliberate)

At the Appeal (2) above had been focused and appeal limited to (2)

above.

The learned Additional Solicitor General in his submissions having

narrated the evidence of the two main witnesses for the prosecution,

emphasized that the evidence that transpired from witness Dhammika was un-

contradicted and uncontroverted and only mere suggestions were made by

the Accused-Appellant that the witness was lying but the witness denied such

a position. Nor has the defence position of self defence put to the material

witnesses of the prosecution. It was the same position as above regarding

witness Chandrasiri and Chandrapala. Learned Additional Solicitor General

drew the attention of this court to the police evidence. There is emphasis

made in the written submissions to the medial evidence. Such evidence show

2 wounds at the front and 4 wounds at the back of the body. Entirety of

medical evidence prove that injuries were caused by gun shots. Entry wounds

tj

iIti!It(

!

I

1 ! 1

5

at the back and exit wounds in front. Wounds were caused by a distance. It

was the position as submitted on belief of the Respondent that argument as

regards the burden of proof and presumption of innocence on the part of the

Appellant is misstated and misinterpreted. I would incorporate the following in

this judgment, the material utilized to convey such position.

In the case of James Silva itself, Rodrigo J. refers to the Privy Council case of Jayasena v. The

Queen (1969) UKPC 22, 72 NLR 313, which elucidates clearly the order in which evidence

should be evaluated in a case of private defence as opposed to a case of mistake. Lord

Devlin states that at page 4:

"Proof of intentional killing does not negative the answer of private defence; on the

contrary, it is only after intentional killing is proved that private defence need be put

forward. But proof of intentional killing does negative accident.'

Lord Devlin then quotes Soertz J. in R v. Chandrasekera 44 NLR 97, and the relevant parts of

that quotation is summarized thus:

"The position is however different ..... if on the charge of murder ... the Jury were in

sufficient doubt as to whether the death of the deceased .... was the result of an

accident or not ..... the proper view seems to me to be that the accused succeeds in

avoiding the charge of murder, not because he has established his defence, but

because, by involving the essential element of intention in doubt, he has produced the

result that the prosecution has not established a necessary part of its case".

6

After quoting Soertz J in R v. Chandrasekera, Lord Devlin then concludes that:

" ... It must be remembered that the evidence on which the accused relied, may go to

challenge the prosecution's case as well as to establishing his own. The present case ... is

a clear case of confession and avoidance; the defence admitted the intention to kill and

relied entirely upon private defence."

Learned defence counsel has referred to certain specific instances

drawing the attention of court to the some of the pages in the brief, to

establish the defence point of view. However I will at· this point of the

judgment consider the trial Judge's Judgment before perusing the identified

items suggested by learned defence counsel.

Judgment of the learned High Court Judge consists of a narration of

evidence of each and every witness for the prosecution and the evidence of

the Accused party. Trial judge having narrated the evidence of a witness, had

thereafter proceeded to express his views on the entirety of evidence of a

particular witness. This is the style the trial judge adopts and it cannot be

faulted. His reasons gradually emanate, in the process of writing the

Judgment. On the main witness's version trial Judge refer to the factual

position as transpired from her testimony and the identity of the weapon used

in the commission of the offence and that of the Accused. I cannot fault the

7

factual reference made to the testimony of the main witness. The main

witness was known to both the deceased (close relative) and the Accused who

was a home guard. Judge refer to the rejection by the main witness, of the

defence position, i.e self defence, prior incident of breaking a fence on the

land that was cleared by the deceased, and animosity between witness and

Accused subsequent to shooting. Very correctly trial Judge explains that the

deceased being a close relative of the witness, it is natural for the witness to

be angry about the incident. Trial Judge having considered the evidence states

that the defence had not been successful in getting any break through or point

out a lapse of the witness's testimony. Nor was any suggestion made by the

defence that the witness is a liar. Therefore the trial Judge state he has no

reason to doubt the testimony of the witness. As such the natural tendency of

any judge would be to place reliance on the testimony of the witness. If the

Accused party could not, by probing the witness achieve its defence and

objective, and when the eye-witness provide material of the incident by un-

contradicted direct evidence, that would be a plus point for the prosecution to

prove guilt.

In the above manner the trial Judge has analysed the evidence of all

prosecution witnesses inclusive of police evidence. At pg. 372 trial Judge has

8

made a special reference him to be extra careful and cautious due to the

reason that good part of the evidence had been heard by his predecessor.

Accused party had no objection for the trial Judge to continue hearing the

case. At pg. 376/377 learned High Court Judge observes that the prosecution

case rest on direct evidence, and he has no reason to reject the evidence of

the main eye-witness. Therefore I find that reference is made to several items

of evidence which corroborate the testimony of the main eye-witnesses, i.e

hearing of gun shorts, place of crime and locality, promptness of conveying the

incident by eye-witness to others. It is also stated that the main witness's

evidence had also been corroborated by the testimony of the official witnesses

which are more or less circumstantial evidence.

I note the following in this regard.

(a) Place, scene of crime or incident of crime.

(b) Observation of clearing the land by some persons.

(c) The place where the body was found with blood stains.

(d) Signs of firing gun shorts and recovering of casings or 4 shells found.

It is clear that (a) to (d) above are all items of evidence referred to by

the prosecution witnesses. Therefore there is ample and sufficient

corroboration of the testimony of the main witness. As such the trial Judge

i III II!!

~

I

IIIIIi

f ,

9

cannot be faulted for arriving at the conclusion that the prosecution case had

been proved beyond reasonable doubt. I note that the official witnesses who

could be described as independent witness, and all of these official witnesses

provide circumstantial evidence inclusive of (a) to (d) above, no doubt

corroborate the versions of the main prosecution witness.

The case in hand cannot be considered in the way and by the dicta in

James Silva's case. I have already stated and reliance could be placed with the

prosecution case as there is no irregularity in analyzing and considering the

intentional killing to ascertain whether the prosecution story is established

beyond reasonable doubt, and then only the defence of private defence need

to be proved on a basis of probability. What is first and what is second should

not be mixed up for mere convenience to rely on the dicta of James Silva's

case ..

Let me now take the reference made by learned counsel for the

Accused at pgs. 382 & 384. In approaching this point trial Judge refer to the

evidence of official police witness Maithripla who took the Accused to custody

and immediately recorded his statement and on the same day produced the

Accused before the Magistrate. Defence position of recording a false

statement cannot be accepted. This is what the trial Judge has stated at that

f I 1 'e i t I I ! i I 1 I I ! l 1 ! t ! I I ; I ! i

I ,

10

point and the Accused's position clearly rejected. This court observes that

there is justification for the trial Judge to observe and do so. Trial Judge's

further observation on that point, of state counsel's cross-examination of

Accused which resulted in making contradiction and considering the story

prosecution case would lead him to reject the Accused's evidence. In the next

para at pg. 382, trial Judge states that based on the evidence of the Accused

and his brother, has not created a doubt in the prosecution case. As such the

defence version is rejected. This would certainly not amount to support the

dicta in James Silva case.

There are some important points which I gathered from the material

furnished to this court. The evidence of the Accused in a nut shell is that being

a home guard he is usually entitled to carry a gun. On the day in question

Accused crossed the stream with his cows to tie them at their usual grazing

spot. As he finished tying the cows he saw a shadow of a man holding a ketty

creeping behind him. Due to fear the Accused turned towards the man and

fired at him. He realized it was the deceased-appellant and claim that the

incident took place on his land. Distance between the deceased and Accused

7/8 feet. The gun was an automatic gun.

11

In the above background of the Accused version the locality or scene

of crime, use of weapon (automatic gun) distance of shooting, presence of any

other persons would have to be unshakable evidence, if the version is to be

believed. Then what comes next to any prudent mans mind is whether the

Accused version is the truth and nothing but the truth. On the other hand

independent prosecution official witnesses, being their duty, provide answers

to all above points raised by the Accused party. In these circumstances can it

be said it is comparison with the prosecution case? To observe the scene of

the crime, collect and identify suspicious objects such as knife, weapons,

empty shell, spot for blood stains, recording of evidence of witnesses are

normal usual things that need to be performed by official witnessess.

This is the normal function of any investigator. Then the medical

evidence should be considered. Such evidence provide details and history of

injuries and the type of weapon that could the cause the injury. Whether one

compares or not, if the two versions differ in any material aspects, more

weight need to be given to the official version unless properly and correctly

disputed in cross-examination to demonstrate a different position. In the case

in hand the defence had not succeeded in projecting a story compatible with

the Accused party in their cross-examination of all official witnesses. The

I I I I I

I I

12

following material remains un-contradicted, emanating from the official

witnesses.

(a) Incident took place in the field, deceased had been working on the day in

question.

(b) Recovery of empty shells at the scene of crime

(c) Distance between Accused and deceased when gun shots were fired.

Official witness testify a considerable distance which is compatible of using

a weapon like a gun.

(d) Medical evidence of entry wounds at the back of the deceased. No signs of

burn marks, singeing or tattooing around the wounds. As such gun cannot

be fired at close range. Direction of firing differ from the position

maintained by Accused.

Above 'a', 'b' 'c' & 'd' does not support the defence position at all. As

Such the trial Judge cannot be blamed for drawing adverse inferences from the

defence case. He is entitled to observe that value of evidence of the defence

case would be diminished and is a doubtful version, and then take the other

step of ruling that a reasonable doubt in the prosecution case had not been

established. As such the test of the required proof of 'probability' has failed.

I would also advert to the proviso to Section 334(1) of the code and

state that no substantial miscarriage of justice has occasioned, having in mind

the question raised by learned counsel for Appellant that contradiction though

13

marked were not proved. It is a mere irregularity which cannot have a bearing

on the verdict. There is ample overwhelming evidence both direct and

circumstance to prove the prosecution case beyond reasonable doubt. In this

regard I refer to Mannar Mannan Vs. The Republic of Sri Lanka 1990(1) SLR

280, misdirection by the learned Trial Judge as to the burden of proof, if there

has been no substantial miscarriage of justice, the appeal still may be

dismissed.

This court having considered the versions of the prosecution and the

defence, wish to observe that all evidence that transpired in this case support

the prosecution case and the defence suggested by the Appellant has not had

any impact to give any benefit to the Accused-Appellant. As such we cannot

find any cogent reasons to interfere with the verdict of the learned High Court

Judge. Conviction and sentence affirmed. Appeal dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

N.S. Rajapaksa J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL !I fI i,,