==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA 180-182/2006 HC Galle 1875

The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Complainant

Vs

1. Luwis Hemnatha alias Mangala 2. Agampodi Jayalias alias Jayalie 3. Arumadura Sunil alias Malu Sunil 4. Wellage Nandasena alias Adul 5. Kukundura Ranjith 6. Wellage Nandasiri 7. Wellage Wipulasena 8. Wellage Padmasiri 9. Themmadura Prabath Kumara 10. Agampodi Kapila Kumara alias Ajith 11. Themmadura Ranil Krishantha 12. Agampodi Somawathi 13. Agampodi Nalani alias Navaliashamy

Accused

And now between 1. Arumadura Sunil alias Malu Sunil (3rd accused) 2. Kukundura Ranjith (5th accused) 3. Wellage Nandasiri (6th accused) 4. Wellage Wipulasena (ih accused) 5. Wellage Padmasiri (8th accused)

Accused-Appellants

Vs The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Complainant Respondent

I,

I

Before

Counsel

Argued on Decided on

Sisira J de Abrew J & Sunil Rajapakshe J

2

DP Kumarasinghe President's Counsel with Neville Abeyrathne

and Mahendra Kumarasinghe for the 1st appellant (3 rd accused) G Wijemanne for the 2nd appellant (5th accused) Indika Mallawaarchchi for the 3rd and 5th appellant (6th and gth accused) Neville Abeyrathne with S Gamage for the 4th appellant (7th accused) Roshantha Abeysuriya DSG for the Respondent.

1 ih, 18th, 19t\ 22nd and 23rd of January 2013 3.4.2013

Sisira J de Abrew J.

The above named thirteen accused were indicted on nine counts. The 1st

count was that they were members of an unlawful assembly common object of

which was to cause injuries to Uragaha Siripala who is one of the deceased persons

in this case. The 2nd count was causing the death of said Siripala whilst being

members of the said unlawful assembly which is an offence punishable under

section 296/146 ofthe Penal Code. The 3rd count was causing the death ofUragaha

Nandika Thushara whilst being members of the said unlawful assembly which is

an offence punishable under section 296/146 of the Penal Code. The 4th count was

causing mischief to one Chnadrawathi 's house whilst being members of the said

unlawful assembly which is an offence punishable under section 410/146 of the

Penal Code. The 5th count was robbery of Rs.75,400/- from the possession of

Chandrawathi whilst being members of the said unlawful assembly which is an

offence under section 380/146 ofthe Penal Code. The 6th,th,gth and 9th counts were

respectively for causing the death of Uragaha Nandika Thushara, Uragaha Siripala,

causing mischief to Chandrawathi's house and robbery of Rs.75,400/- from the

3

possession Chandrawathi on the basis of common intention. The charges had

indicated that the accused persons have committed the above offences with those

who are unknown to the prosecution and with Wellage Sirisena and Prabath

Kumara who are dead.

After trial, the learned trial judge, by his judgment dated 13.10.2006,

convicted 3 rd, 5th ,6th, th and gth accused of the 1st and the 2nd counts. He also

convicted 3rd and 5th accused of the 6th count. The convictions were only on 1

5\2nd

and 6th counts. No conviction on the other counts. On the 1st count 3rd, 5t\ 6th, th

and gth accused were sentenced to a term of six months rigorous imprisonment and

to pay a fine of Rs.1500/- carrying a default sentence of six months simple

imprisonment. On the 2nd count they were sentenced to death. On the 6th count the

3rd and the 5th accused were sentenced to death. Being aggrieved by the said

convictions and the sentences the accused appellants have appealed to this court.

The 5th accused was tried in absentia. After the learned trial judge made an order to

try the 5th accused in absentia. Mr. B. Mendis Attorney-at-Law appeared for him.

This was on 30.1.2001. When the case commenced on 8.7.2003, the learned trial

judge noted that the 5th accused had legal assistance and further observed that court

had not permitted the Attorney-at-law to appear for the 5th accused. This appears to

be a mistake since the court had, on an earlier occasion, permitted Mr. Mendis to

appear for the 5th accused.

The Superintendant of Prisons by his letter dated 15.6.2010 informed this

court that the gth accused had died on 10.1.2010 (pending the appeal).

Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as follows:

Urgaha Siripala who was one of the deceased persons in this case was the father of

the 2nd deceased person Thushara. Chandrawathi is the wife of Siripala. They were

living in their house which was in a coconut estate which was adjoining to IDH

estate in which the accused persons' houses were located. Chandrawathi' s mother

II

4

Roslyn, brother Nanadasiri and sister were living in a house in the same coconut

estate where Chandraathi' s house was located. The distance between the two

houses, according to IP Sumanasiri, was about 150 to 200 meters. According to

Nanadasiri this distance is about 100 meters. In the morning of the unfortunate day

(16.8.93) the 2nd deceased person Thushara was alleged to have shot a person

living in IDH estate and the people living in this estate were angry over the

shooting incident. Around 1.00 p.m. on 16.8.93, about 14-15 people including 3rd,

5th, 6th, ih and 8th accused from IDH estate came to the house of Siripala. They

were armed with various weapons such as knives, swords and clubs. On seeing the

crowd Siripala with two daughters, son Thushara and wife Chandrawathi came to

Nandasiri's house and Chandrawathi went to the road and boarded a Matara bound

bus. On the request of Siripala, Nandasiri put two daughters into a bus and within a

minute he came back to his house. Thereafter the said group came towards

Nandasiri's house. Roslyn the mother ofNandasiri too was at home. When the said

group came to Nandasiri's house, Nandasiri and Roslyn were in the compound of

this house. The group started pelting stones at Siripala. He, at this stage, started

grappling with the 2nd accused. This happened in the compound of Nandasiri's

house. At this stage the members of the said group started attacking Siripala with

their weapons. Nandasiri identified 3rd, 5th, 6t\ th and 8th accused. When members

of the group started attacking Siripala, Nandasiri ran away from the scene and

stopped at a place where village fish stall was located. He came back to the scene

only after 1 Y2 hours later with the arrival of the police.

Roslyn also identified the 3rd, 5th, 6th. ih and 8th accused persons. She

says that the members of the group including the above named accused persons

attacked Siripala with their weapons and thereafter the 3rd and 5th accused went

inside the house carrying knives and attacked Thushara who was under the bed.

She claims that it was she who put Thushara under the bed when the group was

5

coming to her compound. Thereafter she went to the police station. Chandrawathi

says when she was at the police station her mother came to the police station.

Chandrawathi whilst travelling in the bus saw her house being surrounded

by several people including 3rct, 5th, 6t\ ih and gth accused.

The 3rct accused in his evidence stated that in the morning of 16.8.93 he left

his house to engage in his business (selling fish) and returned home only around

4.30 p.m. When he came home, he came to know that Siripala and his son had

been killed. In fear of being attacked by Siripala's people he went to his ancestral

house and stayed there. He says that there were 51 houses in the IDH estate and all

inmates of these houses had left the area. However he admits that he was on

\ friendly terms with Siripala and that he did not have any animosity with Siripala. If

this was his association with Siripala why did he entertain fear and stayed in his

ancestral house? When I consider these facts, I am unable to accept the evidence of

the 3 rct accused. In my view his evidence does not even create a reasonable doubt in

the prosecution case.

Although Chadrawathi says in her evidence that she identified 3 rct ,5th ,6th, 7th

and gth accused and others who were surrounding her house she failed to mention

names of 3 rct and ih accused in her statement made to the police. This was brought

to the notice of trial court by way of omission. When I consider this omission, I

feel that she had not identified 3 rct and the ih accused as those who surrounded her

house. The learned trial judge failed to give adequate consideration to this aspect.

But there is no reason to disbelieve her claim that she saw her house being

surrounded by a group of people.

Learned counsel for all the accused appellants submitted that Nandasiri

and Roslyn did not see the deceased persons being attacked as they ran away from

their house when the gang came to their compound. Although Nandasiri claims

that he saw Siripala being attacked, in his statement made to the police he had

6

stated that he did not see Siripala being attacked. This omission was marked as

3Vl. Further in his statement made to the police he failed to state that he saw

anybody attacking Siripala. This omission was marked as 1 OV3. These omissions

are, in my view, vital omissions although the learned trial judge, in his judgment,

had concluded that they were not vital. When I consider the said omission I feel

that Nandasiri had not seen Siripala being attacked. Thus his evidence with regard

to the attack on Siripala cannot be accepted as true. Does this mean his entire

evidence is untrue? Can't the court accept his evidence up to the point where

Siripala grappled with the 2nd accused. If his evidence up to the point of grappling

is accepted then 3rd,5th,6th,ih and gth accused and other members of the group

armed with weapons came to his compound pelting stones can be accepted. Then

the question is whether part of his evidence could be accepted as true when part of

his evidence is rejected as untrue. There is no omission to the effect that Nandasiri

failed to mention the names of 3rd,5th,6th,ih and gth accused as those who came to

his compound pelting stones at Siripala. In deciding whether part of his evidence

could be accepted as true when part of his evidence is rejected as untrue, I would

like to consider certain judicial decisions. In Queen Vs VP Julis 65 NLR 505 Court

of Criminal Appeal observed thus: "In a prosecution for robbery and certain other

offences, the only evidence against the 1 st,4th and 5th accused was that of two

alleged eye witnesses who stated that the three accused took part in the robbery. At

the conclusion of the evidence of the first eye witness, and before the second eye

witness was called, Crown Counsel applied under section 217(3) of the Criminal

Procedure code to withdraw the indictment against the 1st accused on the ground

that the evidence of these two witnesses (father and son) as to what the 1st accused

did could not be accepted as true because they failed to mention his name to any of

the neighbours who turned up after the robbery as one of those who took part in the

robbery, and also because the first witness had a motive for falsely implicating the

7

1st accused. The application of Crown Counsel was allowed by the trial judge and

the 1st accused was discharged.

Held, that, by falsely implicating the 1st accused, the two witnesses gave false

evidence on a material point. Applying the maximfalsus in uno, falsus in omnibus

(He who speaks falsely on one point will speak falsely upon all), their evidence

implicating 4th and the 5th accused should also be rejected. When such evidence

given by witnesses, the question whether other portions of their evidence can be

accepted as true should not be resolved in their favour unless there is some

compelling reason for doing so."

In Siriwardene and another Vs The Attorney General [1998] 2 SLR 222

GPS de Silva J (as he then was) held: "The principle is that the testimony of a

witness which is identical and which is exactly of the same weight as against two

or more accused persons, cannot be found to be unacceptable against one accused

and acceptable against others."

In Francis Appuhamy Vs The Queen 68 NLR 43 7 Court of Criminal

Appeal held thus: "The remarks contained in the judgment of the Privy Council in

Mohamad Fiaz Baksh Vs The Queen (1958) AC 167 that the credibility of

witnesses cannot be treated as divisible and accepted against one accused and

rejected against another (a) was inapplicable in the circumstances of the present

case (b) cannot be the foundation for a principle that the evidence of a witness

must be accepted completely or not at all. His Lordship Justice TS Femando in the

above judgment at page 443 remarked thus: "We do not think this remark can be

the foundation for a principle that the evidence of a witness must be accepted

completely or not at all. Certainly in this country it is not an uncommon experience

to find in criminal cases witnesses who, in addition to implicating a person actually

seen by them committing a crime, seek to implicate others who are either members

of the family of that person or enemies of such witnesses. In that situation the

8

judge or jurors have to decide for themselves whether that part of the testimony

which is found to be false taints the whole or whether the false can safely be

separated from the true."

Justice PRP Perera in Samaraweera Vs The Attorney General [1990] 1

SLR 256 observed thus: "Four accused were indicted for murder on charges under

sections 296, 315, 314 of the Penal Code. At the end of the prosecution case the 1st

and 4th accused were acquitted on the directions of the judge to the jury. At the

conclusion of the trial the 2nd accused was acquitted by the unanimous verdict of

the jury while the 3rd accused appellant was found guilty of culpable homicide not

amounting to murder on the basis of grave and sudden provocation on the count of

murder and acquitted on the other counts. The main challenge to the verdict was on

the ground that it was unreasonable having regard to the fact that same two

witnesses who testified against the 3rd accused had testified against the 2nd accused

who was acquitted. Having disbelieved the two witnesses as against the second

accused, the jury should not have accepted their evidence against the 3rd accused

appellant. The maxim fa/sus in uno fa/sus in omnibus should have been applied.

Held: The verdict was supportable in that the acquittal of the 2nd accused could be

attributable to the fact that vicarious liability on the basis of common intention

could not be imputed to him on the evidence even if the two witnesses were

believed. The maxim fa/sus in uno fa/sus in omnibus could not be applied in such

circumstances. Further all falsehood is not deliberate. Errors of memory, faulty

observation or lack of skill in observation upon any point or points, exaggeration

or mere embroidery or embellishment must be distinguished from deliberate

falsehood before applying the maxim. Nor does the maxim apply to cases of

testimony on the same point between different witnesses. In any event this maxim

is not an absolute rule which has to be applied without exception in every case

where a witness is shown to have given false evidence on a material point. When

9

such evidence is given by a witness the question whether other portions of his

evidence can be accepted as true may not be resolved in his favour unless there is

some compelling reason for doing so. The credibility of witnesses can be treated as

divisible and accepted against one and rejected against another. The jury or the

judge must decide for themselves whether that part of the testimony which is found

to be false taints the whole or whether the false can safely separated from the true".

After considering the above legal literature I would like to express the

following view. When court is invited to decide whether a portion of evidence of a

witness can be accepted as true when the other portion has been rejected as untrue,

court can do so when there are some compelling reasons. In the present case are

there compelling reasons to accept Nandasiri's evidence up to the point of Siripala

grappling with the 2nd accused? I now advert to this question. Nandasiri says that

he saw 3rd, 5th, 6th, ih and gth accused and others going towards Siripala's house.

The investigating officer says in his evidence that Siripala's house had been

damaged. Then Nandasiri's evidence on this point has been corroborated by police

evidence. Did Nandasiri have any reason to be at the place where Siripala was

killed? This was Nandasiri's house. Thus he had reasons to be at this place.

Nandasiri says that the above named accused with others came to his house pelting

stones at Siripala and in the compound, Siripala had a grapple with the 2nd accused.

According to police officer Nandasiri's house was damaged and the body of

Siripala was found in the compound of Nandasiri's house. Here too Nandasiri's

evidence has been corroborated by police evidence. For the above reasons, I hold

that there are compelling reasons to accept portion of Nandasiri' s evidence as true

when the other portion of his evidence is rejected as untrue. In my view

Nandasiri's evidence that 3rd, 5t\ 6th, ih and gth accused and others came to

Siripala's house and subsequent events up to the point where they came to

Nandasiri's compound and Siripala grappled with the 2nd accused could be

10

accepted as true although his evidence regarding the attack on Siripala could not be

accepted as true. When the above portion of Nandasiri's evidence is accepted as

true, it can be concluded that the following matters are established beyond

reasonable doubt.

1. The 3rd, 5th, 6th, th and gth accused and others armed with weapons pelted

stones at Siripala and they came to the compound ofNnadasiri.

2. Siripala had a grapple with the 2nd accused when the others stated above

were present in the compound ofNandasiri.

3. When they, carrying weapons, went to Siripal's house, they formed an

unlawful assembly common object of which was to cause injuries to

Siripala. This contention is further strengthened by the fact that they,

carrying weapons, came to Nandasiri' s compound pelting stones at Siripala.

When lP Sumanasiri came to the compound of Nandasiri in the same evening, he

found the dead body of Siripala with bleeding injuries in this compound.

According to medical evidence there were several cut injuries, contusions and

abrasions in the body of the deceased. Some ribs were also broken. The death of

Siripala was due to shock and hemorrhage following multiple cut injuries. What is

the inference that could be drawn from the above circumstances? The one and only

irresistible and inescapable inference is that 3rd,5th,6th, th, gth accused and others

formed unlawful assembly common object of which was to cause injuries to

Siripala and that they whilst being members of the said unlawful assembly killed

Siripala in the compound ofNandasiri. When I consider all these matters I hold the

view that convictions of 3rd,5th,6th,th and gth accused on the first count and the 2nd

count can be affirmed.

Learned trial judge convicted 3rd and 5th accused for the murder of

Thushara. He has come to this conclusion on the basis that 3rd and 5th accused went

inside the house of Roslyn and attacked Thushara. Roslyn gave evidence about the

11

above attack. But it is difficult to think that Roslyn continued to wait at this place

after the said group came to her compound. She may have seen the above group

coming to the compound but not the attack on Tushara. In my view there is no

basis only to convict 3rd and 5th accused for the murder of Thushara. When I

consider all these matters I am unable to permit the conviction of 3rd and 5th

accused on the count of murder on Thushara (6th count). I therefore set aside the

conviction and death sentence of 3rd and 5th accused on count No.6

For the above reasons, I affirm the conviction and the sentence of six

months RI and the fine of Rs.1500/- of 3rd, 5th, 6th and th accused on count No.l

and their conviction and the death sentence on the 2nd count (count of murder of

Siripala). The default sentence of six months simple imprisonment on count No.l

for non payment of the fine of Rs.l500/- is illegal as it offends Section 291 of the

Criminal Procedure Code. I therefore set aside the default sentence of six months

simple imprisonment and impose a one month simple imprisonment in default of

the fine of Rs.l500/-. I make order abetting the appeal of the 8th accused who is

dead. Subject to the above variation, the appeals of the appellants are dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

Sunil Rajapakshe J

I agree.

~-\;~ Judge of the CoUrt of Appeal.

~~--k_~ Judge of11ie Court of Appeal.