==== BLOCKS ==== 

," 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Suppaiah Yogendran alias Suppaiah Yohanandan Ketpawathy Watte, Mundel

(Deceased-Defendant) Meenaloshani Yohanandan No.20, Albert Place, Dehiwela.

Substituted Defendant-Appellant C.A. NO. 1308/98(F) D.C.PUTTALAM CASE NO.10985/L

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON

DECIDED ON

Vs

Mrs.Selvarani Johnson No.OS, Railway Quarters,

Puttalam.

Plaintiff-Respondent

K. T. CHITRASIRI, J

W.M.M.MALINIE GUNARATNE,J

H.Withanachchi with S.Karunadara for the Substituted-Defendant- Appellant

Asthika Devendra for the Plaintiff-Respondent

02.12.2014

27th November 2013 by the Plaintiff-Respondent

2nd December 2014 by the Substituted-Defendant-Appellant

10.02.2015

tI !

!!

~ i I 1 Ii! I I If

2

CHITRASIRI,J.

This is an appeal by which the defendant-appellant (hereinafter referred to

as the defendant) sought to set aside the judgment delivered on 11.08.1998. By

that judgment learned District Judge of Puttalam decided the case in favour of the

plaintiff-respondent (hereinafter referred to as the plaintiff) wherein he granted the

reliefs prayed for in the plaint dated 13.11.1987. Basically, the relief sought in

that plaint is to have a declaration, declaring that the plaintiff is the owner of the

land referred to in the schedule to the plaint and to have the defendant evicted

therefrom.

At the commencement of the trial in the District Court, an admission had

been recorded admitting the contents found in paragraph 2 in the plaint. As a

result, the fact that the defendant had been the owner of the land referred to in

the schedule to the plaint before the execution of the deed bearing No.18040 had

been accepted, as proved. It is the deed by which the property subjected to in this

case had been transferred to the plaintiff. Therefore, the plaintiff has raised an

issue to determine whether or not the plaintiff became the owner of the land

referred to in the plaint pursuant to the execution of the said deed bearing

No. 18040 dated 23.07.1986, having purchased the same for a sum of Rs.30,000j.

Execution of the aforesaid deed has not been disputed. However, it had

been executed with the condition to re-transfer the land subjected to in that deed

to the defendant in the event the vendor (defendant) re-paying the said sum of

Rs.30,000j - with interest thereon at 20% per annum, to the transferee (plaintiff)

i I

~ i

I!I I I

JI

~ F! ! ! fI

3

within a period of one year from the date of execution. It is so mentioned in the

said deed 18040 itself. Admittedly, the defendant has not paid Rs.30,000j- as

mentioned in the deed 18040. It is on that basis the plaintiff filed this action

seeking inter alia to have a declaration as to the title and accordingly to obtain

possession of the land in question.

However, the defendant in her answer dated 03.08.1989, has taken up the

position that the deed 18040 was executed having kept the land subjected to in

that deed, as security for a loan amounting to Rs.15,000j-, that she borrowed

from the plaintiff. Accordingly, she has pleaded that the plaintiff is holding the

said land in trust for the defendant. Therefore, it is seen that the defendant has

claimed the benefit of Section 83 of the Trust Ordinance in this instance.

Aforesaid Section 83 of the Trust Ordinance reads thus:-

((Where the owner of property transfers or bequeaths it,

and it cannot reasonably be inferred consistently with the attendant circumstances that he intended to dispose of the beneficial interest therein, the transferee or legatee must hold such property for the benefit of the owner or his legal representative" ..

Since the defendant has relied upon Section 83 of the Trust Ordinance in

this instance, it is her burden to establish that she did not intend disposing the

beneficial interest of the property transferred by the deed bearing No.18040,

marked as PI. Furthermore, when such a claim is made under Section 83 of the

Trust Ordinance, then that claim will have to be considered by looking at the

attendant circumstances of the case. Such a criterion is mentioned in that

Section 83 itself. This position in law had been discussed in the cases of Thisa

IIt

J

f I I I

II! I

f !

4

Nona and three others vs. Premadasa [1997 (1) S.L.R at 169] and Piyasena

vs. Don Vansue [1997 (2) S.L.R. at 311] as well.

In Thisa Nona and three others vs. Premadasa (supra), it was held as

follows:

"The fact that document 1 V2 was admitted by the plaintiff-

respondent, the fact that the 1st defendant-appellant paid the stamp and Notary's charges, the fact that P16 was a document which came into existence in the course of a series of transactions between the plaintiff-respondent and the fact that the 1st defendant-appellant continued to possess the premises in suit just the way she did before P 16 was executed all go to show that the transaction was a loan transaction and not an outright transfer".

In Piyasena vs. Don Vansue (supra), it was held thus:

"(l)Even though a transfer is in the form of an outright sale it

is possible to lead parole evidence to show that facts exist from which it could be inferred that the real transaction was either-

(i)money lending, where the land is transferred as a security as in this case or;

(ii)a transfer in trust-in such cases section 83 would apply;

(2) A trust is inferred from attendant circumstances. The

trust is an obligation imposed by law on those who try to camouflage the actual nature of a transaction. When the attendant circumstances point to a loan transaction and not a genuine sale transaction the provisions of section 83 of the Trust Ordinance apply."

Per Wigneswaran, J

"The behavior of t he plaintiff-appellant with Samagi Mudalali in the background and the defendant -appellant just before and after the signing of P2 and P3 and even

after the end of the period of lease, show them to be that of rapacious investor/sand persecuted borrower respectively rather than a genuine purchaser and a over holding tenant.

f f , Ii ,

~

f gI! !

f t ! l 1i i t

I

J I

\ , I 1 ! j

f I 1 I

t I

1

5

(3) It cannot be reasonably be inferred consistently with the attendant circumstances that the defendant-appellant intended to dispose of the beneficial interest to the property zn question. "

Having discussed the law applicable to the issue at hand, I will now turn to

consider whether the learned District Judge is correct when he decided to disallow

the claim of the defendant made in terms of Section 83 of the Trusts ordinance. As

mentioned hereinbefore, the plaintiff became the owner of the land referred to in

the schedule to the plaint, upon executing the deed 18040 in which a condition is

found to re-transfer the property to the defendant upon paying a sum of

Rs.30,000j - with the interest due thereon to the plaintiff. Admittedly, the

defendant has failed to comply with the aforesaid condition referred to in the deed

18040 marked PI. Therefore, the plaintiff became entitled to have a decree in her

favour as prayed for in the plaint since the execution of the deed 18040 has not

been challenged. In the circumstances, it is now necessary to ascertain whether

the defendant was able to establish that she did not intend transferring the

beneficial interest of the property to the plaintiff in order to consider granting relief

to the defendant.

As referred to hereinbefore, the defendant has taken up the position that the

deed, PI was executed only as a security for a loan amounting to Rs.15,000j- that

she obtained from the plaintiff. However, in the body of that deed it is mentioned

that a sum of Rs.15,000j- had been given to the defendant before the execution of

the deed PI and the balance Rs.15,000j- was paid in the presence of the Notary

f f

6 ,!

totaling it to become Rs.30,OOO / -. The defendant being the seller had placed her

~ signature on that deed having understood the contents of the same. The matters }

contained in the deed had been explained to her by the notary in the presence of

two witnesses, at the time the deed was executed. Furthermore, the evidence

forthcoming to support that the plaintiff paid only a sum of Rs.15,OOO / - is, only

the oral evidence of the plaintiff. Therefore, on a balance of probabilities learned II

f:

District Judge has accepted the evidence contained in the deed PI having rejected

the oral testimony of the defendant. I do not see any error in deciding so.

Moreover, he is the trial judge who saw the demeanour of the witnesses becoming

il

the best person to evaluate such evidence. Therefore, it is seen that the defendant

has failed to show that she received only Rs.15,OOO / - and that she did not receive

the balance Rs.15,000 / - alleged to have been paid before the execution of the

deed.

Then the question arises as to the value of the property to ascertain whether

the market value had been passed when the deed 18040 was executed. The

defendant in her evidence has stated that the value of an acre of land in that area

which is the extent of the land in dispute, was Rs.75,000/- to 80,000/-at the

time she gave evidence (vide proceedings at page 51 in the appeal brief). She has

said so on 24.1.1994. However, the deed in question had been executed on I23.7.1986 making it nearly 09 years before. Therefore, it is not incorrect to argue

that the plaintiff has paid the market value for the land when the transaction took

place. Hence, it is clear that the defendant has failed to establish that she did not

receive the purchase price for the land she has alienated.

7

Moreover, the plaintiff also has indicated the purpose for which she has

purchased this property. In her evidence she has said that it was to commence a

business at a place abutting the main road. (vide proceedings at page 49 of the

appeal brief) Furthermore, it is necessary to note that even the notary's fees had

been paid by the plaintiff in the capacity of the purchaser of the property. (vide

proceedings at page 48 of the appeal brief)

In the circumstances, it is clear that the attendant circumstances of the

case show that the deed 18040 had been executed having paid the due

consideration to the seller namely the defendant. Hence, I do not see any error on

the part of the learned District Judge when she disallowed the claim of the

defendant that was made relying upon Section 83 of the Trusts Ordinance.

Learned Counsel for the appellant heavily relied upon the decision in the

case of Dayawathie v. Gunasekera [1991 (1) S.L.R. 115J in support of his

argument. In that decision Dheeraratne, J. has held that sufficient material was

available in that case to prove, existence of a constructive trust though the deed

subjected to in that case was also a conditional transfer becoming it similar to the

deed in dispute in this case. However, in coming to the said decision

Dheerarathne J has stated thus:

"On the next question as to the adequacy of evidence to prove a resulting trust

the following "attendant circumstances" have been accepted by the leamed trial

I! ! r,IlI

f! I

I

t I

t

8

judge as pointing to the fact that beneficial interest of the property was not parted

with by the original plaintiff.

(1) The oral promise to re-convey the property in suit on receipt of Rs. 1 7,000

comprising of money advanced and the interest thereon.

(2) The original plaintiff (transferor) continuing to remain in possession and

enjoying the property.

(3) The original plaintiffs agreement to pay all instalments that will fall due

on account of the loan obtained from the National Housing Department.

(4) The gross disparity between the consideration on the face of the deed

(Rs.17,000) and the market value of the property (Rs. 70,000 - 80,000)

(5) The first defendant's failure to take any steps to assert her ownership in

persuance of the purchase until she received the letter of demand P 10,

namely, the failure to get her name registered as the owner in the

assessment register of the local authority and non-payment of

installments payable to the National Housing Department.

(6) The original plaintiff taking steps to obtain a loan from the State Mortgage

Bank soon after the transaction to payoff debts due to the defendants

and to the National Housing Department.

These "attendant circumstances" in my view are sufficient to

demonstrate that the original plaintiff hardly intended to dispose of his

beneficial interest in the property. I find that the facts in the instant case are

different from those of Shanmuganathan Pillai v. Unjappa Kone [45 NLR 465J;

Carthelis Appuhamy v. Saiya Nona [46 NLR 313J and Savarimuttu v.

Thangavelauthan [55 NLR 529J in all of which the attendant circumstances

were found to be inadequate".

rf

~ I I,

tIt tf I i

f

9

Aforesaid attendant circumstances referred to in that case are quite

different to the facts and circumstances of the case at hand. In the circumstances,

it is clear that the decision in Dayawathie V. Gunasekara (supra) is to be

distinguished in this instance. Hence, I am not inclined to accept the submissions

of the learned Counsel for the appellant that was made relying upon the said

decision in Dayawathie V. Gunasekara.

For the aforesaid reasons, I am not inclined to interfere with the findings of

the Learned District Judge. Accordingly, this appeal is dismissed. Considering the

circumstances of the case, I do not wish to make any order as to the costs of this

appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne,J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

1