==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA PHC 170/2009

PHC Badulla 63/07 Writ

Provincial Revenue Commisioner of the Uva Province,

Office of the Provincial Revenue Commisioner,

Simon Pieris Memorial Hall,

We1ipara, Badulla.

And 03 others.

Responden t -Appellants

Vs.

Mohideen Pichche Jeyanul Abdeen,24A Landegama, Welimada.

Petitioner-Respondent

Before A.W.A. Salam, J. &

Sunil Rajapakshe,J. Counsel Nayomi Kahawita, SC for the Appellants

Respondent absent and unrepresented Argued on 04.06.2013 Decided on: 14.11.2013

A. W .A. Salam, J.

Ii II

~ II

1

- 2 -

The petitioner-respondent (hereinafter referred to as the

"respondent") filed application in the Provincial High

Court of Uva Province seeking writs of certiorari to quash

the certificates marked as P5(b) and P6(b) against the

Provincial Revenue Commisioner of the Uva Province and

two others.

The facts relevant to the application briefly are that the

respondent purchased a property on the deed of transfer

bearing No: 27989 dated 1st August 2004. The

consideration mentioned in the said deed was

Rs. 500,000/-. Thereafter, the seller informed the

respondent that the value of property is much higher than

the amount mentioned in the deed and that he sold the

same for Rs. 500,000/ without proper knowledge as to the

actual value. According to the information furnished by

the seller to the Provincial Revenue Commisioner of the

Uva Province the actual value of the land is

Rs.6,000,000 /-.

Subsequently, the seller filed a civil action against the

respondent seeking relief under the legal concept of laesio

enormis. In the meantime, the respondent had been

issued with a letter by the Provincial Revenue

Commisioner, directing his attendance at a discussion

regarding the payment of proper stamp duty on the said

deed. The land which is the subject matter of transfer

has been assessed by the Provincial Revenue

Commisioner at Rs. 15,000,000/-. The respondent by

letter dated 16 December 2005 disputed the valuation.

The Uva Provincial Council rejected the letter of the

respondent disputing the valuation and initiated

lI!

- 3 -

proceedings in the Magistrate's Court based on the

certificate produced as P5(b). According to the said

certificate marked as P5 (b), the respondent had defaulted

the payment of stamp duty in a sum of Rs. 2,377,000/-.

However, at a later stage the certificate was amended on

a computation of the value of the property placed at Rs.

5,500,000/-.

The respondent thereafter filed an application seeking

writs of certiorari to have both assessments P5(b) and

P6(b) quashed. The respondent's application to quash the

certificates marked P5(b) and P6(b) was allowed by

judgment dated 17.06.2009. Dissatisfied with the said

judgment, the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th respondent-appellants

have preferred the present appeal to have the impugned

judgment of the learned High Court quashed.

The main ground on which the Learned High Court Judge

based his decision to quash both certificates P5(b) and

P6(b) is that the Provincial Revenue Commissioner having

assessed the Property for Rs. 15,000000/-has without

giving any plausible reasons brought down the value once

again to Rs. 6,000,000/-.

The learned High Court Judge has quite rightly observed

that the Provincial Revenue Commissioner has failed to

indicate on what basis he valued the property originally

at Rs. 15,000000/-and later brought it down to

Rs. 6,000,000/-.

On a perusal of the averments contained in the petition,

as has been observed by the learned High Court Judge,

- 4 -

the Provincial Revenue Officer, having originally placed

the market value of the property at Rs. 15,000000/- has

brought it down to Rs. 6,000,000/- indicating a variation

of the market value in a sum of Rs. 9,000,000/ -.

Quite surprisingly, no reasons have been adduced by the

Provincial Revenue Commissioner for his opinion that the

market value of the property should be placed at

Rs. 15,000,000/-. Adding insult to injury, the Provincial

Revenue Commissioner has failed to give any reason

whatsoever as to the circumstances which warranted the

market value to be drastically brought down to

Rs. 6,000,000/- which showed a reduction of 60 percent

of the original value.

The learned High Court Judge was very much influenced

in granting the writs applied for by reason of the failure

on the part of the Provincial Revenue Commissioner to

give reasons for his opinion.

The Provincial Revenue Commissioner has filed a

certificate against the respondent and while the case in

the Magistrate Court was pending brought it down to

Rs. 6,000,000/-. The learned High Court Judge has

arrived at the finding that both certificates namely the

original and the amended certificate have been filed

without following any acceptable norms to ascertain the

market value of the property.

It has been emphasized by the English Courts that the

absolute discretion vested in any person cannot remove

the need to have reasons for a particular decision. As a

,I!!II ! I

II[I f III

I II

t fI,

- 5 -

rule of law, all decision makers must act fairly and

rationally which would mean that they must not make

decisions without reasons. It is a well established

principle in administrative law that the persons affected

by administrative decisions have a right to know the

reasons on which the administrative decisions are based.

In short, the reasons behind a particular decision is

required for the information of the person affected by the

decision to understand the same.

An important decision on the exercise of discretion is

worth being referred to at this stage. In the case of

Roberts vs. Hopwood and others1925 AC page 578 at

page 613 Lord Wrenbury (House of Lords) voiced his

opinion as to the manner in which a discretion should be

exercised, in the following words.

"The person in whom is vested a discretion

must exercise his discretion upon reasonable

grounds. A .discretion does not empower a man

to do what he likes merely because he is

minded to do so-he must in the exercise of his

discretion do not what he likes but what he

ought. In other words, he must, by use of his

reason, ascertain and follow the cause which

reasons direct. He must act reasonably."

As the Provincial Revenue Commission has failed to

adhere to the above standards the decision challenged

before the High Court Judge is tainted with illegality and

unreasonableness. Therefore, as has been observed by the

IlIII[

i III

I! t

iII

f

t\rJ

, !

- 6 -

learned High Court Judge the impugned certificates are

liable to be quashed.

In the circumstances, I see no reason whatsoever which

compels this court to interfere with the decision of the

learned High Court Judge or otherwise to reverse the

same. Hence, the appeal stands dismissed without costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Sunil Rajapakshe, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

LAj-

/ I

J! ftJrIIi

~ ! tiI ,

J f ,

\I

iIt,

I

if