==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

J ayakodi Arachchige Ran -N aide Budanapitiya, Wellawa

1 st Substituteed - Plaintiff-Appellant

Vs C.A.NO.I015/93 (F) D.C.KURUNEGALA CASE NO.267/L

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON

DECIDED ON

J ayakodi Arachchige Priyanka Wimalasooriya Budanapitiya, Wellawa

Defendant-Respondent

K. T.CHITRASIRI, J.

H.N.J.PERERA, J.

Sanath Jayathilaka for the 1 st Substituted-Plaintiff-Appellant

Manohara de Silva P.C. with A.Wijesundera and Hirosha Munasinghe for the Defendant-Respondent

17.02.2014

15.06.2011,29.08.2012 & 23.07.2013 by the 1 st Substituted-Plaintiff-Appellant 25.05.2010 by the Defendant-Respondent

29th APRIL 2014

1

It

ff[

l 1 I 1 i I I

\ j

I

j I

1 l , I I 1 l 1 t i I ! I i

J I I I I

CHITRASIRI, J.

When this matter was taken up for argument before this Bench, both

Counsel informed Court that two preliminary issues have been raised by the

defendant-respondent when the appeal was taken up for hearing earlier,

before another Division of this Court. Hence, they both invited this Court to

make an order on those two issues before looking at the merits since those

are directed towards the maintainability of this appeal. They further

submitted that both parties have already filed comprehensive written

submissions in this regard. Accordingly, they moved that an order be made

on those preliminary objections, considering the submissions that they have

already filed.

Having perused the docket, it is found that both parties have filed

submissions in respect of the aforesaid preliminary issues raised by the

defendant-respondent. Those two preliminary issues raised on 26.02.2010

read thus:

(1) Whether the plaintiff-appellant could maintain this appeal

In view of the fact that the other plaintiffs and the 2nd

defendant have not been named as parties to the appeal;

(2) Whether the notice of appeal and the petition of appeal are

valid for the reason that the plaintiff's earlier proxy has not

been revoked with leave of Court.

2

j I

f 1 j

I will first examine the validity of the notice of appeal dated 08.09.1993

and of the petition of appeal dated 21.10.1993 that were filed with a proxy of

Ranjani Herath Attorney-at-Law without revoking the earlier proxy given to

M.D.Wijekoon by the appellant. Admittedly, the proxy of the Attorney

M.D.Wijekoon was in force by the time the notice and the petition of appeal

were filed. An application to revoke the same had also been made when the

notice and the petition of appeal were tendered. However, the Court had not

made an order accepting the proxy of Ranjani Herath; neither it had made

order revoking the proxy of Wijekoon.

1

I

Then the question is whether the subsequent proxy of Ranjani Herath

could be accepted as the valid proxy of the appellant when the earlier proxy ,

given to M.D.Wijekoon has not been properly revoked.

I will first look at the statutory provisions relevant to the issue. The

definition given in Section 5 of the Civil Procedure Code to the words

"Registered Attorney" reads thus;

"an attorney-at-law appointed under Chapter V by a party or his

recognized agent to act on his behalf;"

Validity and/ or effect of such an appointment of a registered attorney

are stipulated in Section 27 of the Civil Procedure Code and it reads as

follows:

3

I I

27. (1) the appointment of a registered attorney to make any appearance

or application, or do any act as aforesaid, shall be in writing signed by

the client, and shall be filed in Court; and every such appointment shall

contain an address at which service of any process which under the

provisions of this Chapter may be served on a registered attorney,

instead of the party whom he represents, may be made.

(2) When so filed, it shall be in force until revoked with leave of the court

and after notice to the registered attorney by a writing signed by the

client and filed in Court, or until the client dies, or until the registered

attorney dies, is removed, or suspended, or otherwise becomes incapable

to act, or until all proceedings in the action are ended and judgment

satisfied so far as regards the client.

The provisions referred to above clearly show, the manner in which a

proxy is filed and revoked. It is the duty of the Court to follow the manner

referred to, in the said Section 27 when revoking a proxy. Unless and until

the aforesaid procedure is adhered to by court, no proxy could be revoked.

Till then the proxy filed earlier will be in force if any such proxy had been

filed. Admittedly, the said procedure referred to in Section 27 of the Civil

Procedure Code had not been followed in this instance to revoke the proxy of

Wijekoon though a mere application to revoke the same had been made.

Court had not made an order revoking the earlier proxy. Neither had it made

an order accepting the proxy of Ranjani Herath.

4

The manner in which a notice of appeal and a petition of appeal are to

be filed is stipulated in Section 755 of the Civil Procedure Code. Accordingly,

every notice of appeal and petition of appeal shall be signed by the Appellant

or by his/her registered attorney. Hence, Attorney Wijekoon should have

signed the notice and the petition of appeal in this instance since his proxy

had not been properly revoked. Therefore, the proxy of Ranjani Herath has no

force or effect and accordingly, it cannot be considered a proxy filed in terms

of Section 755 of the Civil Procedure Code.

Having discussed the provisions contained in the Civil Procedure Code

as to the revoking of a proxy, I will now refer to the authorities relevant to the

issue. In Perera v. Perera, [1981 2 S.L.R. 41 at 44] it was held thus:

"(2)Under the provisions of section 755(3) the petition of

appeal shall be signed by the appellant or his

registered Attorney and so long as there is a proxy on record

it is only the registered Attorney who has the authority to

sign the petition of appeal. "

In the case of Fernando v. Sybil Fernando and another, [1997 (3)

S.L.R. at pagel] it was decided that:

"A litigant has a statutory right to act for himself unless the law

provides otherwise (section 24 CPC). But so long as an

instrument of the appointment (proxy) under section 27(1) CPC of a Registered Attorney-at-Law is in force, a litigant who has

executed such an instrument must act through his registered

attorney until all proceedings in the action are ended and

5

I I I!. II

! lI

II

I

f 1

judgment satisfied so far as regards that litigant while the

proxy is in force, he cannot himself perform any act in court

relating to the proceedings of the action. When the instrument

(proxy) is filed, it shall be in force, unless revoked, or until the

client or registered attorney dies or become incapable to act or

until all proceedings in the action are ended and judgment

satisfied so far as regards the client (section 27(2) Cpc. Where

therefore there is an attorney on record, the notice and petition

of appeal must be signed by such attorney and by no one else; if

it is signed by the party himself or by some other attorney, it is

not in conformity with the law and must be rejected.

The provision in section 755(1) CPC, that every notice of appeal

«shall be signed by the appellant or his registered attorney"

must be conferred with reference to the content and other

clauses of the Code.

Where the notice of appeal is signed by the appellant himself

when he had a registered attorney on record, the lapse is fatal

and is not curable in terms of section 759(2) CPC".

The authorities referred to above also clearly show that the notice of

appeal and the petition of appeal shall be signed by the registered attorney

whose proxy on record and not by anyone else. The proxy on record in this

instance is of M.D.Wijeikoon. His proxy has not been revoked. Therefore, the

valid proxy is the proxy of M.D.Wijekoon and not of Ranjani Herath though a

proxy given to her had been filed when filing the notice and the petition of

appeal. In the circumstances, it is my opinion that the notice and the petition

6

II

l

of appeal filed by the appellants are defective since those have not been

signed by their attorney on record.

Section 759(2) of the Civil Procedure Code refers to instances where the

Court of Appeal is empowered to make orders curing the defects, if any when

filing notice and the petition of appeal. However, such defects are not curable

in terms of the said Section 759(2) unless it had been caused due to a

mistake, omission or defect on the part of the appellant. I do not find such a

ground in this instance for this Court to act in terms of the said Section

759(2) of the Civil Procedure Code. Moreover, the authorities referred to above

too; do not permit me to accept the proxy of Ranjani Herath making use of

the said Section 759(2) of the Civil Procedure Code. Hence, I am unable to

allow the appellant to grant relief even under Section 759(2) of the Civil

Procedure Code.

For the aforesaid reasons I, upholding the second preliminary objection

raised on behalf of the respondent decide to dismiss this appeal. In the light

of the above decision, it is not necessary for me to consider the merits in

respect of the first preliminary objection raised by the defendant-respondent.

Accordingly, this appeal is dismissed with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

H.N.J.PERERA. J

I agree. JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

7

Il I I I r £ ,

t

f ! II I t I ! ,!,

i t It ! I

t j

~ 1 I I! I II !

J