==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

In the matter of an Application for orders in

the nature of writs of Certiorari &

Prohibition under Article 140 of the

Constitution of the Democratic Socialist

Republic of Sri Lanka.

Rodsons Private Limited,

No. 64 , Earnest Place,

Lakshapathiya,

Moratuwa.

Petitioner

c.A. Writ Application No: 275/2008 Vs

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued on

Decided on

Ceylon Electricity Board,

Chittapalam A Gardiner Mawatha,

Colombo 2.

And Six (06) others.

Respondents

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J.

J.C.Weliamuna with Santha Jayawardana

for the Petitioner.

Yuresha de Silva SC

for the Respondents.

05.10.2010 & 25.10.2010

21.03.2011

2

S.Sriskandarajah, J,

The Petitioner is a private company manufacturing plastic items using plastic raw

materials. The Petitioner submitted that on 25.01.2008 it received a letter dated

14.01.2008 signed by the 4th Respondent the Accountant Revenue Officer of the

Ceylon Electricity Board stating that due to an incorrect meter reading the

Petitioner's electricity bills for the period of 2006 January to 2007 January have been

revised as the Petitioner has been under charged in a sum of Rs. 5,006,743.20 and

this sum is added to the Petitioner's January 2008 electricity bill. Thereafter the

Electrical Engineer by his letter of 07.02.2008 issued a notice of disconnection of

Electricity Supply to the Petitioner informing him that if the said sum is not paid

within 7 days the supply will be disconnected. The Petitioner company made

representations and protested the said charge. The 4th Respondent on 09.08.2008

issued a letter informing the Petitioner by rectifying the sum charged as under

charged by giving credit to an amount of Rs. 368,684.00. The Petitioner contended

that the Respondents have increased the number of units consumed by the

Petitioner by three -fold without any rational basis.

The Respondents submitted that pursuant to a routine check, it was discovered that

faulty wiring of the meter has contributed to incorrect meter readings from January

2006 to January 2007 pursuant to which the aforementioned error was rectified on

29th March 2007 based on the past pattern of consumption of energy with regard to

the year 2005, the Electricity bills issued for the period January 2006 to January 2007

were revised.

There is no allegation against the Petitioner that the Petitioner has tempered with

the meter or the Petitioner has anything to do with the faulty wiring. The

Respondents admitted that the electricity meters bearing serial No. 90-2840(KV A)

and 90-7868(KWH) were installed in the Petitioner's premises in an enclosure which

was under lock and key. As per the Bulk Supply Meter Test Report obtained on

3

31.07.2001 the aforementioned meters were in proper working condition. The

Respondents submitted that the said meters were replaced in 2004, with the meters

bearing No. 90227 (KV A) and 863532(KWH).

In this premiss there would not have been any wiring to the said meters after 2004. If

there was a faulty wiring to the meter it would have occurred while installing the

meters in 2004. Therefore there is no logic in calculating the actual consumption of

electricity for the year 2006 January to 2007 January based on the past pattern of

consumption of energy with regard to the year 2005. Further the Petitioner

submitted that its factory has 10 Injection Moulding Machines which are used to

manufacture plastic items. The number of machines operated at a given time

depends on the market factors. From 2005 for several years there was a drastic drop

of sales of the Petitioner's plastic products and this resulted in decrease in

production and this intern resulted in a reduction of the Petitioner's consumption of

electricity energy supplied by the 1st Respondent. The Petitioner also submitted that

the Petitioner in August 2005 had installed a diesel electricity generator which has a

capacity of 500 KV A at the Petitioner's factory and it was used time to time to obtain

electricity energy. The Petitioner's contention is that even if there is an error in the

meter reading the calculation of the correct energy consumption has to be done only

after taking into consideration of the aforesaid factors which has a direct bearing on

the energy consumption and it cannot be calculated on the basis of the pattern of

energy consumption on the previous year. The Petitioner has also challenged the

said decision to charge additional sum of Rs. 5006,743.20 on the basis that the

decision was taken without giving a hearing to the Petitioner.

Section 41 of the Electricity Act provides:

41.(1) In the absence of an agreement to the contrary, the amount of energy supplied to a consumer

shall be ascertained by means of a correct meter.

4

(2) -------

(3)------

(4)

(a) Where any difference or dispute arises between a consumer and a licensee as to the

correctness of a meter fixed by the licensee under subsection (1), the matter shall be

decided by an electrical inspector, upon the application of either the consumer or the

licensee and on payment of the prescribed fee in the prescribed manner.

(b) Where the meter has, in the opinion of the inspector, ceased to be correct, the

inspector shall estimate the amount of the energy supplied to the consumer, during

such time as the meter may not, in the opinion of the inspector, have been correct.

(c) Except in the circumstances referred to in paragraph (b), the register of the meter

shall, in the absence of fraud, be conclusive proof of the amount of energy supplied to

a consumer.

(d) An application by either a licensee or a consumer to an electrical inspector under

this subsection shall not be deemed to have been duly made unless the applicant has

given to the other party not less than seven days' notice of his intention to make the

application.

According to the above section the energy supplied to a consumer has to be

ascertained by means of correct meter. The above section has specifically provides

for the licensee or a consumer to apply to an electrical inspector in relation to the

correctness of a meter fixed by the licensee but before making such an application

the applicant has to give not less than seven days' notice to the other party of his

intention to make the application. But in this instant case even though the licensee

alleges that there is a wrong meter reading it has not followed the procedure laid

down by Section 41(4)(d) and has not given notice to the Petitioner. If the application

is properly made, the electrical inspector could make a determination on the

correctness of the meter. In his opinion if the meter is not showing a correct reading,

Section 41(4)(b) authorizes the electrical inspector to estimate the amount of the

energy supplied to the consumer, during such time the meter was not correctly

showing the electrical consumption.

5

If there is a dispute or dissatisfaction of the decision of the electrical inspector an

appeal can be lodged against that decision or report and it should be referred to the

Chief Electrical Inspector for determination as provided by Section 58 of the said Act

it provides:

"58. If a licensee or any interested person is dissatisfied with any decision or report

of an electrical inspector, the matter shall be referred to and decided by the Chief

Electrical Inspector and his decision shall be final."

The above provisions clearly indicate that the scheme of the Act has laid down a

procedure in the circumstances where a wrong meter reading is suspected. In that

event the party complaining has to give not less than 7 days notice to the other party

before complaining to the electrical inspector. The electrical inspector has to arrive at

a determination as to the correctness of the meter and if he is of the opinion that the

meter is not correctly reading the electricity consumption he should estimate the

amount of the energy supplied to the consumer, during such time the meter was not

correctly reading. The requirement of 7 days notice to the other party under the

above section implies a hearing of that party before making a final order or decision

on the correctness of the meter and the electricity consumption of the consumer.

Section 58 of the Electricity Act has provided an appeal from this order or report to

the Chief Electrical Inspector. This provision implies that the order or the report of

the electrical inspector has to be served on the parties affected and the order or

report has to contain reasons for the aggrieved party to appeal against that order or

repot to the Chief Electrical Inspector.

The above procedural steps have not been followed by the Respondents before

issuing the letter dated 14.01.2005. By this letter the Petitioner was requested to pay

a sum of Rs.5, 006,743.20 as the Petitioner has been under charged due to incorrect

meter reading. As there is a procedural irregularity in arriving at the said decision

reflected in the letter dated 14.01.2005 marked P5 this court issues a writ of certiorari

6

to quash the decision to charge an additional sum of Rs.S,006,743.20 reflected in the

letter marked PS.

The application of the Petitioner is allowed as prayed for in prier (b) and (c) of the

Petition without costs.

~/L---. ~ge ~f the Court of Appeal