==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPULBIC OR SRI LANKA C.A. PHC 83/2004

Priyangi Dharshani No: 115/05, Matara Road, Akuressa.

Appellant Vs. J.S. Wijeratne No: 115, Matara Road, Akuressa.

Respondent

1

C.A.(PH.C.) 83/2004 P.H.C. Matara Case No. 213/2003 (Rev.)

M.C. Matara Case No. 35021.

Before

Counsel

Decided on

K.T. Chitrasiri, J.

K.T. Chitrasiri, J.&

Malinie Gunaratne,J.

Saliya Peiris for the Appellant

Respondent is absent and unrepresented

28.11.2014

Counsel for the appellant submits that he did not receive

instructions from the appellant and accordingly he submits that he has

no Qbjection for the matter be taken up for argument in the absence of

the parties. Accordingly ,we decide to consider the merits of this appeal

in the absence of the parties.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the Judgment dated

18/08/2004 of the learned High Court Judge and to have the decision I

2

dated 14/10/2003 of the learned Magistrate affirmed. The order of the

learned Magistrate had been made pursuant to an application filed in the

. Primary Court under Section 66 of the Primary Courts Procedure Act No.

44 of 1979. The learned Magistrate having inspected the land in dispute

has decided that the 1 st Party Respondent-Appellant is entitled to a right

of way leading to her house. Therefore, it is clear that this is an

application by the Appellant, to use a right of way, as a right she

possess. Therefore, it is clear that Section 69 of the Primary Courts

Procedure Act is the provision in law that is applicable in this instance.

The aforesaid Section 69 refers to disputes relating to any right in

relation to a land. Therefore, it is to be noted that the claimant of that

right should first establish the he/she is possessed with such a right.

In this instance, we do not see any material to establish that the

Appellant has established that she has such a right namely a right of

way to reach her house. Even though the Appellant has referred to a .

title deed in her affidavit, she has failed to show that she has a right of

way to the land to which she has title. Therefore, it is our view that the

learned Magistrate has failed to consider properly, the law referred to in

Section 69 of the Primary Courts Procedure Act, when he decided to

allow the Appellant to use the right of way.

if!t,Ii

I!IIi r

3

Furthermore, it is an admitted fact that the 2nd Party Petitioner-

Respondent has built a house over the strip of land claimed by the

Appellant as a road-way. The learned Magistrate has inspected this

place and in his observations, he has specifically stated that there is a

building constructed over the road way claimed by the appellant. In his

observation, he has clearly stated that it is a building constructed with

cemented walls. Therefore, it is clear that there is a permanent

construction over the road way claimed by the Respondent. In such a

situation, the law does not permit to make an order demolishing such a

construction when it comes to an application mad under the provisions

contained in the part vii of the Primary Courts Procedure Act. This

position in law had been held in that manner in the case of Jamis Vs.

Kannangara [1989 (2) S.L.R. 350].

Therefore, relying upon the aforesaid decision, it is our view that

the learned Magistrate should not have made an order to demolish the

construction possessed by the Respondent allowing the Appellant to use

the road-way over which a permanent construction is found.. In the

circumstances, we decide to dismiss this appeal having affirmed the

I' [ IIf II

III

,

I l I

4

decision of the learned High Court Judge. For the aforesaid reasons,

this appeal is dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Malinie Gunaratne,J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

Cr/-

[

t Ii i