==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

C.A.No.113/2008

Before

Counsel

Argued and

Decided on

R.A. Priyathilaka

Accused-appellant.

Vs.

The Attorney-General

Respondent.

H.C. Jaffna HCEP /2258/04(T)

Sisira J. de Abrew,J.(P/CA) and

P.W.D.C.Jayathilaka, J.

Tenny Fernando for the

Accused-Appellant

S. Thuriraja DSG for the A.G.

07.03.2014

1 ! 1 I , !

J , I

I

I

2

Sisira J de Abrew,J ( PI CAl

Accused - appellant produced by the Prison Authorities is

present in Court.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted for raping

a 7 Y2 year old child whose name is Dulanjali and was sentenced

to a term of 15 years Rigorous Imprisonment, to pay a sum of

Rs.5000/= carrying a default sentence of 6 moths Rigorous

3~ ~ Imprisonment and to pay a £ae of Rs. 1000,000/= as a

compensation to the victim carrying a default sentence of 02

years Rigorous Imprisonment. Being aggrieved by the said

conviction and the sentence he has appealed to this Court.

Facts of this case briefly may be summarised as follows:

On the day of the incident Dulanjali who was only 7 Y2

years old went to the house of the accused-appellant with her

younger brother to play. On the compound of the accused-

appellant's house he (the accused-appellant) gave some fruits

to the younger brother and a small bicycle to play. Thereafter

the accused-appellant took the girl to a room in his house, and

put her on a bed and committed sexual intercourse on the girl

.While the accused-appellant was performing sexual

in tercourse a woman in the neigh bour- hood brought tea and

Ii IIt

(! I

tl

f

1 1 I J 1 I I

I

3

thereafter he got down from bed. The girl went away from the

place. She complained the incident to the grand-mother on the

same day. Three days later one Chandrawathi questioned

Dulanjali about the incident. Dulanjali then divulged the

incident to Chandrawathi. Later Chandrawathi examined the

under garment of the victim girl and she observed white and

yellow stains on the undergarment. The Doctor who examined

her 3 days after the incident observed a contusion in the vaginal

wall and another contusion in the vagina. He also found a tear in

the hymen. Doctor observed blood around vaginal wall of the girl.

The accused -appellan t did not even make a dock statement.

When we consider the facts of this case we hold that the

procecutrix evidence was well corroborated by the medical

evidence. When we consider the evidence led at the trial we hold

that the case has been proved beyond reasonable doubt. There is

no reason for us to interfere with the judgment of the learned

High Court Judge. We therefore affirm the conviction.

After hearing the arguments, we gave an opportunity to the

counsel for the appellant to address Court as to why the Court

should not enhance the sentence. He submits that the accused-

appellant is the father of the two children and was a home

guard. He further submits that the accused-appellant was

sentenced on 10/11/2008 and was languishing in remand due to

no fault of him. The case could not be taken up for argument as

the translation of the brief was not ready. When we consider all

tt

!iI,

I

1 1 I

1

I I

I

4

these matters, we decide not to enhance the sentence. However

we decide to direct the Prison Authorities to implement the

sentence form the date of this judgment (07/3/2014). We affirm

the conviction and the sentence imposed by the learned Trial

Judge. We direct the Prison Authorities to implement the

sentence from the date of the judgment (07/03/2014). The

default sentence should be implemented

sentence imposed by the Trial Judge.

Appeal dismissed.

in addition to the

PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P. W.D.C.Jayathilaka,J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

WC/-

i

ft

~ t

I