==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

CA Application No.368/2010

In the matter of an application for

Mandates in the nature of Writs of

Certiorari, and Prohibition in terms

Of Article 140 of the Constitution.

PolyStar Poly Products (Private)

Limited

No.602, Halgahadeniya Road,

Kalapaluwawa, Rajagiriya

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. Sudharma Karunaratne,

Director General,

Custom Department and Director

General Excise (Special Provisions)

Unit of Sri Lanka Customs,

Times Building,

Bristol Street,

Colombo 01.

2. M.S. De Silva

Acting Director Excise (Special

Provisions), Excise (Special

Provisions)

2

Duty Unit, Custom Department,

Bristol Paradise Building,

Bristol Street,

Colombo 01.

3. S.M.S. Hemapala Samarasinghe

Excise Officer, Excise (Special

Provisions)

Duty Unit of Sri Lanka Customs,

Excise (Special Provisions) duty

Unit,

Custom Department,

Bristol Paradise Building,

Bristol Street,

Colombo 01.

4. Dr. P.B. Jayasundara,

Secretary to the Treasury,

Ministry of Finance & Planning,

General Treasury,

The Secretariat,

Colombo 01.

5. Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General Department,

Colombo 12.

RESPONDENTS

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued on

Written Submission

Judgment

S.Sriskandarajah.J

3

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

DEEP ALl WIJESUNDERA, J

K.Deekiriwewa with M.K.Herath,

for the Petitioner.

Anusha Samaranayaka SC

for the Respondents.

08.02.2012

24.04.2012

20.05.2013

The Petitioner in this Application has sought a Writ of Certiorari to quash a

decision marked "X2" demanding the Petitioner to register with the Sri Lanka Customs

Excise (Special Provisions duty)Division under the Excise (Special Provisions) Act

No.l3 of 1989 for the purpose of manufacture of excisable article, as defined in the

gazette bearing No.l471/23 dated 16/11/2006 and 1574/8 dated 6/11/2008, made

under Section 3 of the Excise (Special Provisions) Act No.l3 of 1989, since the 151

Respondent has received information that the Petitioner without registering with the Sri

Lanka Customs Excise (Special Provisions) Division is engaged in manufacturing

articles made out of polythene. The Petitioner has also sought a Writ of Prohibition

prohibiting the Petitioner from making such demands to the Petitioner, as they have no

jurisdiction.

The Petitioner submitted that the Petitioner, by a letter dated 1/02/2010 of the

Excise (Special Provisions Duty) Divisions of the Sri Lanka Customs, requesting the

4

Petitioner to Register with the said Division under the Excise (Special Provisions) Act

No.13 of 1989, for the purpose of manufacture of excisable articles, as defined in gazette

bearing No.147/23 dated 16/11/2006 and 147/8 dated 6/11/2008, made under Section

3 of the Excise (Special Provisions) Act No.13 of 1989. The Petitioner admitted that the

Director-General of Customs is statutorily authorized to demand and levy excise

(Special Provisions) duty from importers of goods at the time of importation under

Section 5(2)(a) of the Act No.13 of 1989, provided the article that had been imported is

an excisable article in terms of the gazette orders made by the Honourable Minister of

Finance from time to time under the Section 3 of Excise (Special Provisions) Act No.13

of 1989, the Director General of Customs is exercising these functions merely for the

convenience of the other Departments.

The Petitioner's position is that the Director-General of Customs is not statutorily

authorized to demand and levy Excise (Special Provisions) duty from the

manufacturers of articles locally, irrespective of the fact that these local manufacturers

are manufacturing articles which are excisable under and in terms of the gazette orders

made by the Honourable Minister from time to time. The Petitioner contended that for

the demand and levy of Excise (Special Provisions) duty from the local manufacturers

of the excisable articles that there should be an independent department or authority

created under the Excise (Special Provisions) Act No.13 of 1989, headed by a Director-

General of Excise (Special Provisions) who shall be in charge of the administration of

the said Act. The Petitioner further contended, without there being an independent

department or authority, there cannot exist a Director-General of Excise (Special

Provisions) under the umbrella of Sri Lanka Customs as, at date, the Department of

Excise (Special Provisions) duty is functioning as another division of the Sri Lanka

Customs.

The Petitioner contended that in terms of the provisions of the Excise (Special

Provisions) Act "Excise Officer" means, an officer appointed and invested with powers

5

under Excise (Special Provisions) Act No.13 of 1989, as amended. In those

circumstances the appointment made by the Sri Lanka Customs, describing "Excise

Officers" as Excise Officers of the Excise (Special Provisions duty) Divisions of the Sri

Lanka Customs is ultra vires to the Excise (Special Provisions) Act. In the above

circumstances, in the absence of a separate department called Excise (Special

Provisions) department and appoint officers under the said department, it is illegal to

request the Petitioner, to register with the Excise (Special Provisions Duty) Division of

the Sri Lanka Custom, and to pay excise duty within two weeks, is ultra vires and,

therefore, it has to be quashed by way of a Writ of Certiorari.

The Excise (Special Provisions) Act in Part I Section II, sub-section 1(a) states as

follows:-

2(1). There shall be appointed by name or by office for the purpose of this Act;

(a) A Director-General of Excise (Special Provisions) (hereinafter referred to as

the Director-General) who shall be in charge of the administration of this Act.

In terms of Article 55(2), the Cabinet of Ministers are invested with the power of

appointment, dismissal and disciplinary control in respect of Heads of Departments.

The Cabinet of Ministers have made a decision to appoint the Director General of

Custom by office as the Director-General of Excise (Special Provisions). This

appointment is made in terms of the Excise (Special Provisions) Act. The said

appointment was made under the Excise (Special Provisions) Act. The amendment to

the said Act to levy excise duty on items other than liquor and tobacco, the said

appointment and the imposition of the excise duty other than liquor and tobacco were

all made in pursuance of a Cabinet approval. The appointment of Director-General of

Custom as Director-General of Excise is an independent act of the Cabinet in terms of

the Act, and it has no relevancy to the amendment of the said Act by including levy of

excise duties on items other than liquor and tobacco. As the appointment of Director-

6

General of Custom as Director-General of Excise (Special Provisions) is in conformity

with both constitutional provisions contained in the Excise (Special Provisions) Act, it is

not necessary to establish a separate department to appoint a Director-General of Excise

(Special Provisions) and establishing departments is a function of the Executive, and it

can decide that two functions could be performed by one department by appointing

officers of one department by office to the other departments. The word "Excise

Officer" defined under Section 32 of the Act means, an officer appointed and invested

with powers under this Act. In other words, a Custom Officer, by office, could be

appointed under the Excise (Special Provisions) Act and, in that event, he would be (an

Excise Officer).

In the above circumstances the Petitioner's claim that unless and until a separate

department under the Excise (Special Provisions) Act is established, and a Director-

General of Excise is appointed to the said department, the Respondent cannot claim the

Petitioner to register with them under the Excise (Special Provisions) Act No.13 of 1989

for the purpose of manufacturing of excisable articles is ultra vires, is untenable and,

therefore, this Court dismisses this application without cost.

President of the Court of Appeal

Deepali Wijesundera, J

I agree,

Judge of the Court of Appeal