==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A 92/2011 A-8

1. P. N. W. Indika Kumara Ariyadasa

2. P. D. Nishantha Kumara

ACCUSED-APPELLANTS

H.C. Ratnapura 214/2007

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Ani! Gooneratne J. &

Sunil Rajapaksa J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDNET

Nalin ladduwahetti P.c., with Chathura Amaratunge

For the Accused-Appellant

Madhawa Tennakoon S.S.c. for the Complainant-Respondent

29.08.2014 & 22.09.2014

31.10.2014

1

II

f

Il

t IIl , IIl It i ! I

2

GOONERATNE J.

Two Accused-Appellants were indicted in the High Court of

Ratnapura under 3 counts for offences committed on 10.12.2000. Count No.

(1) against both Accused relates to Kidnapping of a girl under 16 years of age

called Nadeeka Damayanthi from lawful custody of Wijesooriya Aratchilage

Sweenitha (mother of victim). Count No. (2) is a charge of rape of the above

named Nadeeka Damayanthi an offence punishable under Section 364(2)(e) of

the Penal Code as amended, against the 1st Accused-Appellant. The 3rd count is

against the 2nd Accused for aiding and abetting the 1st Accused to commit rape,

on the above named person an offence punishable under Section 102 read

with Section 364 (2)(e) of the Penal Code as amended.

Both Accused-Appellants were convicted and sentenced to 2 years

rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 5000 which carries a default sentence

of 6 months R.I., on count No. (1). On count No. (2) the 1st Accused-Appellant

was sentenced to 10 years rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 10000

which carries a default sentence of 2 years R.1. and compensation in a sum of

II

\ i ,t

r i I,

3

Rs. 10000/-, which had a default sentence of 2 years R.1. The 2nd Accused was

sentenced on count No. (3) with the same sentence but the default sentence

on the fine was 1 years R.1. and compensation to be paid in a sum of Rs.

50,000/- which carries a default sentence of 2 years R.1.

The trial in the High Court was held on or about January 2011, which

is about 11 years after the incident and by that time the prosecutrix was 25

years old serving the Sri Lanka Army as a soldier. It was her evidence that she

was residing with her parents in a village called 'Malwala' and on the day of

the incident she left home all alone in the morning to a place called 'Galaboda'

to attend a tuition class. She could not attend the class since it was not held on

that day being a Poya day, which she came to know when she arrived at

'Galabada'. It is her evidence that she visited a friend of her sister. Thereafter

she left the friend's place to return home and was waiting for a bus when she

saw a three wheeler and inquired from the 1st Accused about a bus to get

home but he had replied in the negative and volunteered to drop her, but she

refused such request but he had used force and taken her in the three

wheeler. Evidence suggest that the victim was molested and raped by the 1st

Accused-Appellant and thereafter for the second time she was taken in the

4

three wheeler a short distance away closer to a lonely area, and near a

'Ambalama' she was held to the wall and raped by the 1st Accused for the

second time whilst the 2

nd Accused was holding on to her and thereby aiding

and abetting the 1st Accused to commit rape. In the examination-in-chief this

court observes that the incident of rape had been described by the prosecutrix

several times in the way she was probed by the prosecuting counsel and court.

Thereafter she had managed to escape and met a person called 'Nanda Mama'

when she was shouting for help. Evidence reveal that the said Nanda Mama

took her to the Wewalwatta police post. It is at that point that she came to

know the names of the two Accused as within a short while both Accused had

arrived at the police post but the police had not taken the trouble to take

them into custody. It was when her parents arrived at the police post she was

taken by them to hospital and thereafter examined and statements were

recorded. It is a dock identification that was relied upon by the prosecution.

The learned President's Counsel who appeared for the Accused-

Appellant vehemently argued and urged inter alia the following points in

favour of his clients.

,

i J I !

I 5

(a) Several contradictions and omissions marked and suggested in the

evidence of the prosecutrix and taken all together and not in isolation

would casts doubts about the prosecution version, and that court should

not rely on such highly unreliable evidence of the prosecutrix. Trial

Judge failed to correctly analyse inconsistencies.

(b) Medical evidence does not support the prosecution version. No external

injuries and refer to the evidence at folio 130/131 of the brief.

(c) Alleged rape in a standing position is highly improbable

(d) Absence of evidence as to what happened in the police post at

Wewalwatte.

(e) Trial Judge analyse the defence case initially, which is improper.

(f) Misdirection of trial Judge of 'Ellanborough principle.

(g) Misdirection on burden of proof.

(h) No identification parade held.

Learned Senior State Counsel supported the Judgment of the trial Judge,

and explained to this court that the trial Judge had considered all the

contradictions and inconsistencies in the prosecution case. He agrees with the

trial Judge's views on same that such inconsistencies are trivial in nature and

cannot harm the prosecution case. It was also submitted that even though the

trial Judge at folios (194) & (195) is critical of police investigations, it is only a

reference to a lapse on the part of the Police Department, which does not

seriously affect the prosecution case. Learned Senior State Counsel drew the

I I

6

attention of this court to the position of one Munasinghe the former boy

friend of the prosecutrix to demonstrate by the evidence at folios 96 and

92/93, to rule out the possibility of implicating Munasinghe and to establish

that he would never had any opportunity to have any kind of intimacy on the

day in question with the prosecutrix. Reference was made to the dock

statement of the two Accused which indicate their presence at Wewalwatte

junction, and that they saw the prosecutrix. 2

nd Accused states he saw the

prosecutrix talking to Nandasiri and that he handed her over to police post.

There is no specific denial of the incident. The witness called by the defences

INandasiri' never made any statement to the police. Learned Senior State

Counsel drew the attention of court to the items of evidence at folios 44/45 &

47/48 which gives a description of the alleged offence of rape and the

methods of identity being established in the way the prosecutrix explains.

Further the material at folios 62/63 provides further details of identity. It was

the position of the learned Senior State Counsel that there was no necessity to

hold an identification parade in view of the evidence that transpired in court.

7

The trial Judge's approach to this case in the way the Judgment is

written may give rise to some comments. It is his view to consider the defence

position when analyzing the evidence lead at the trial. It is stated that the

defence rejects the incident altogether and the trial Judge observes as follows:

•.... ~~~~t»®~~~~~(J~

eo56k.o ~ ~ tmC6l ~ 00Ci50c !)eC~~ (i)fl>CO. The trial Judge

proceeds to state that two main factors need to be decided:

(a) Was the act of rape committed on witness No. (1)?

(b) Can the court act on the evidence of witness No. (1) and consider it to

be credible in view of the several contradictions?

Based on the reply to above (1) & (2) can court rely on the defence

case? I find that the trial Judge has first considered the medical evidence and

thereafter given his mind to the several contradictions. This seems to be a

somewhat a awkward procedure. What should be considered initially is to

ascertain whether the prosecution has proved its case beyond reasonable

doubt. Then the defence case need to be considered and decide whether it has

created or capable of creating a reasonable doubt in the prosecution case. I

would like to expand on this principle some more but a case before court

f I

8

should not give rise to a class of jurisprudence or a lesson on burden of proof.

In Jayaratne Vs. Queen 72 NLR 313{PC} considers this position in the following

way also. A satisfactory way to arrive at a verdict of guilt or innocence is to

consider all the matters before the court adduced by the prosecution or by the

defence in its totality without compartmentalizing, and, ask himself whether

as a prudent man, in the circumstances of the particular case, he believes the

Accused guilty of the charge or not guilty.

However the trial Judge in whatever direction or stance taken by him,

had considered the medical evidence and the testimonial trustworthiness of

the prosecutrix in the light of the contradictions marked in evidence. By a

contradiction or an omission court cannot on that account alone test the

testimonial trustworthiness or decide whether the witness is a credible

witness. This is a decision to be taken solely on the evidence that transpires in

court. The truth of the case or the version of the witness is truthful or not is

normally decided on evidence of fact and may be, observe the demeanor and

deportment of the witness, to a point, and examine the totality of evidence of

a witness. This is the yard stick to be adopted as the Judge, counsel on either

side or jury cannot and could not have seen or heard the act committed and

the words uttered, at the scene of the crime.

• 9

The question in appeal is to consider whether the Judgment of the

trial court is right or wrong and whether it contains misdirection and lapses

which would prejudice the Accused case and resulted in a failure of justice.

It is stated in the judgment as contained therein (3rd para from the

beginning) that the 1st Accused raped the prosecutrix at a place where the

prosecutrix was to attend a tuition class and the Accused had by force made

the prosecutrix to get into a three wheeler and thereafter committed the act

of rape. The evidence and the prosecution version has already been narrated

as above in this Judgment. This court observes that the witness No. (1) who

was the victim gave evidence after 11 years from the date of incident. The act

of rape and use of force and the abuse had been described by the witness in

the examination-in-chief not only once but on several instances depending on

the question put to her. No doubt the very first initial questions by the State

Counsel resulted in some bare answers of the act. But by a gradual process

and with more and more probing many details had been elicited, of the act of

rape and abuse itself and the circumstances that led to such an act. Court has

to accept all this from the witness who was below 16 years of age when she

I

! I I

I I I I I I i I I f

~

10

suffered such a mental trauma subsequent to such an act of rape. Evidence in

examination of witness has transpired by a gradual process, and as observed

above testified after eleven years.

The contradictions could be summarized as follows:

Vl-doubt about stating she was raped. What was stated in the

statement was she was confronted with a problem. ~cc.od ~

V2 -

V3 -

~.

persons who travelled in the three wheeler was got down by the

police - the question of Accused coming to the police.

On questioning of incident by the police Accused denied - when the

Accused came they were sent away. At this point the trial Judge is

critical about the investigation done by the police.

V4 -Narration of the incident to Wewalwatta police post.

VS -About victim's friend.

V6 -Class not held on Polya day.

V7 -One Nirmala called the victim to come to her house.

VB -

V9 -

VlO -

Vll-

About boarding the bus from Wewalwatte junction, proceeded to

friend's house at Wewalwatte.

About morning meal.

Talking to a friend at 6.00 p.m and boarded a Balagoda bus to come

to Wewalwatte.

Awaiting a bus to come to Malwala.

t

f " I I I I I

1 !

I

t I

II

f I I I!

We note that the trial Judge has considered the above contradiction

and omissions and expressed his views on same to be not so material and

which does not go to the root of the case. The explanation on same by the trial

Judge cannot be faulted. Further this court does not wish to interfere with

primary facts, as stated by the learned High Court Judge, on same.

The findings of primary facts should not be disturbed 1993 (1) SLR

119: Questions of fact the Appellate Court will not over rule unless it is a

perverse decision 20 NLR 332; 1947 {1} AER 583-4, per Jayasuriya J. in Best

Footwear {Pvt.} Ltd., and two others Vs. Aboosal/y {1997} 2 SLR at 138 ...

Per Jayasuriya J:

"In evaluating the evidence of a witness a court or tribunal is not entitled to reject

testimony and arrive at an adverse finding in regard to testimonial trustworthiness and

credibility on the mere proof of contradiction or the existence of a discrepancy. The

deciding authority must weigh and evaluate the discrepancy and ascertain whether the

discrepancy does go to the root of the matter and shake the basic version of the witness. If

it does not, such discrepancies cannot be given too much importance ... Before arriving at

an adverse finding in regard to testimonial trustworthiness the judge must carefully give his

mind to the contradictions marked and consider whether they are material or not and the

witness should be given an opportunity of explaining those contradictions that matter ...

Witnesses should not be disbelieved on account of trivial discrepancies and omissions and

the Court should look at the entirety and totality of the material placed before it in

ascertaining whether the contradiction is weighty or is trivial"

r I I

, I

f I ,

I l

~

(: ! i ( ,

12

There is also medical evidence led, as considered by the trial Judge to

the effect that sexual intercourse cannot be ruled out. Evidence of the

prosecutrix in its entirety would suggest the testimonial trustworthiness of the

witness. Trial Judge has expressed views of demeanor of the witness. This is a

matter to be left in the hands of the trial Judge and the Appellate Court cannot

comment otherwise. Identity is proved in several ways apart from the dock

identification. The names of the Accused-Appellants were made known at the

police post, as she was taken to that point immediately after the incident.

Witness stood very firmly in evidence as regards the sexual act and as to who,

and how it occurred. When evidence was led the names of the Accused

naturally transpired with the dock identification. Police evidence reveal that

the two Accused surrendered to the police on 12.12.2000. The evidence of the

mother of the victim also support and corroborate the prosecution version to

a very great extent. I wish to observe that the law relating to identification

does not shut out evidence of dock identification. Trial Judge of course should

examine the circumstances under which the identification came to be

established. The witness in her own way provided details of identity even 11

years after the incident. The several points urged by the learned President's

Counsel cannot have a bearing on the prosecution case, although the

, II

( J i I

f I

f

I

13

procedure adopted by the learned High Court Judge gives an opportunity to

comment and even make adverse remarks. That alone would not suffice unless

a reasonable doubt could be demonstrated, in the prosecution version.

The two Accused made dock statements. They do not specifically

reject the incident but state both were chatting to each other at the

Wewalwatte three wheel park. The 2nd Accused stated that Nandasiri came

and wanted a hire to proceed to 'Malwala'. Whilst proceeding it was made to

realize that the victim informed that her mother is not at home and as such

handed over to Wewalwatte police.

The above statement no doubt appear to be very simple, but a

serious crime of this nature would require some details and an explanation.

The evidence of the witness called by the defence is one Nandasiri.

He merely refer to an incident without describing same which occurred at

about 6.30/7.00 p.m. He gives the distant between places in the vicinity and

where he lives. He went to his brother's boutique to help him and saw a girl in

front or near the co-operative at about 6.30/7.00 p.m. (Wewalwatte junction).

He questioned her, and found she was waiting to board a bus, to go home and

since there were no busses volunteer to take her in a trishaw, driven by the 2

nd

I III

t I J ! I t t t ! r t i

I

f i I I

I f \, I

14

Accused (q®>C). He spoke to the 2nd Accused and arranged a hire. He and the

girl (prosecutrix) got on to the trishaw, and this is what he had to say ®® ~

Thereafter he states he had nothing else to do but drop her at the

Wewalwatte police post and gave her to the police and went away with the 2nd

Accused. It must be noted that there is no reference to the 1st Accused-

Appellant in this witness's examination-in-chief. In cross-examination witness

admits that he did not give a statement to the police. In cross-examination it is

the witness's version that there was no person called Indika, (1st Accused), and

he never saw 1st Accused, but he is known to the 1st Accused. Witness in cross-

examination states he does not know anything about the incident.

The trial Judge's assessment of the defence case cannot be faulted

and I would in a gist give the main points considered in the Judgment, as

regards the defence case.

I

I

15

(a) No explanation by the Accused party

(b) No evidence to consider or create a doubt in the version of prosecution

witness No. (1).

(c) Defence witness not made a statement to the police. If he wanted to,

had the opportunity to do so.

(d) Accused not involved, had not been established.

(e) Bias witness.

(f) Defence witness does not properly explain whether he is the person

who met prosecution witness No. (1).

(g) Evaded the question as to why he could not take another female in the

trishaw since he had to accompany a girl. (pg. 202).

We have no reason to interfere with (a) to (g) above. Trial Judge has

Considered the defence case. There are no significant items of evidence

demonstrated in the entire defence case which casts doubts in the prosecution

case. Nor even suspicious circumstances projected by the defence case, to

enable the trial Judge to give his mind to the Accused version.

In all the above facts and circumstances we see no reason to

interfere with the Judgment of the trial Judge, notwithstanding the

observations made by this court in this Judgment. The prosecutrix even after a

long lapse of time provided details in a convincing manner as regards the act

of rape by the Accused party. The several contradictions and omissions taken

I I

f I f f I ! i

\ II

I I 1 t

16

in isolation or in its entirety does not give rise to doubts or get to the root of

the case. The suggested inconsistencies cannot be given much importance. As

such we affirm the conviction and sentence. This appeal is dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

(2. y GOJ~~~ ------= --DGE OF ffiE COURT OF APPEAL

N.S. Rajapaksa J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

I,

I I r f.

r

I

I