==== BLOCKS ==== 

i I i i I I l I i I l l l J I ! I I I I I !

I i i I

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

C.A. Application No.332/2000

SRI LANKA

In the matter of an Application for a

writ of Certiorari under Article 140 of

the Constitution of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Mr. J.M. Wimalagoonaratne

Of 3rd Lane, off Angulana Station Road,

Angulana, Moratuwa.

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. Mr. H.A.G. Hettiarachchi,

The Controller of Exchange,

Exchange Control Department,

Central Bank of Sri Lanka

Equity Two Building,

Janadhipathi Mawatha,

Colombo 01.

2. Deputy Secretary to the Treasury

Ministry of Finance and Planning

The Secretariat, Colombo 01.

3. The Hon. Attorney-General

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued on

Decided on

S.Sriskandarajah, J,

2

Attorney General's Department

Hulftsdorp, Colombo 12.

RESPONDENTS

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

K. Kanag- Iswaran PC with Avindra Rodrigo and Lakshman

Jayakumar,

for the Petitioner,

Y.J.W.Wijayathilaka PC ASG with MS Bari SSC,

for the Respondents

07.03.2011

22.02.2013

The Petitioner in this Application is challenging the order contained in the letter

dated 16th of July 1997, addressed to the Petitioner, informing the Petitioner that the

explanation submitted by the Petitioner in respect of the alleged contravention of the

Exchange Control Act could not be accepted and, hence, an offence had been committed

under Section 11(2) read with Section 51(1) of the Exchange Control Act. The Jst

Respondent, acting in terms of Section 52(1) of the said Act, requested the Petitioner to

pay a penalty of Rs.28,455 /-. The Petitioner also challenged in this Application a

decision conveyed to him on an appeal preferred by him against the aforesaid order to

the Honourable Minister of Finance in terms of Section 52(7) of the said Act. The

Petitioner is also seeking a writ of certiorari to quash the decision contained in letter

dated 9th of March 2000 imposing a penalty, after considering his appeal in a sum of

Rs.2,000/ -.

J

~•

f

t[

r€l

ll

f!i

ftf

II III

~ I

3

The Petitioner submitted that in 1992, when the government decided to privatise

the management of the national plantations, the George Stuart & Co., Ltd.,

incorporated, a legally owned subsidy, named George Stuart Management Services

(Pvt) Limited for the purpose of managing one of the regional plantation companies,

viz., Kotagala Plantations Limited. One of the shareholders of the said Management

Services (Pvt) Limited was the Petitioner. According to the Petitioner, George Stuart

Management Services (Pvt) Limited and Kotagala Plantations Limited entered into an

agreement dated the 22nd of June 1992, whereby George Stuart Management Services

(Pvt) Limited took over the management of Kotagala Plantations Limited. In 1995, the

Public Enterprises Reform Commission decided to privatise Kotagala Plantations

Limited. The George Stuart Management Services (Pvt) Limited, which was the

managing company at the relevant time, sought the advice of the Merchant Bank

Limited, decided to purchase the shares of the Kotagala Plantations Limited. George

Stuart Management Services (Pvt) Limited entered into an agreement with prospective

investors, viz., Mr. Naganathan Aiyathurai, Mrs. Mary Ong and Rovenco Company

Limited and, by this agreement, shares held by the George Stuart Management Services

(Pvt) Limited to be transferred to the said investors or to their nominees and assignees.

The Petitioner submitted, the George Stuart Management Services Limited and he were

made to believe that the shares in George Stuart Management Services (Pvt) Limited

were being purchased by a consortium of persons comprised of both foreign and local

residents. It is the contention of the Petitioner that he and the other shareholders

handed over a signed share transfer form in blank to a member of the consortium, viz.,

Naganathan Aiyathurai, for the said forms to be completed by the purchasers of the

shares on the specific understanding confirmed in writing by Mr. Aiyathurai, that the

names of the transferees would be made known to the lessors in due course.

The Petitioner contended that the said transfer of the entirety of shares in George

Stuart Management Services (Pvt) Limited was sold to Lankem Ceylon Limited, which

is a company incorporated in Sri Lanka, and having its office at Nos.760, 762, Baseline

l I

t I l l j I j

l j J l l l ! I

l l l l I ! t l

4

Road, Colombo 09. In these circumstances the Petitioner contended that they have not

violated the provisions of Section 11(2) of the Exchange Control Act. Section 11(2)

provides as follows:-

11(2). No person shall, except with the permission granted by the bank;

(a) Transfer any registered security, either on its own behalf or on

behalf of any other person to any person resident outside Sri Lanka

or to any person acting as the nominee of any person so resident; or

(b) Transfer any bearer security, either on his own behalf or on behalf of any

other person, unless the bank is satisfied with the person to whom the

security is to be transferred; and if the person is a nominee, the person for

whom he has to act as nominee are resident in Sri Lanka.

The allegation levelled against the Petitioner and the other shareholders of the George

Stuart Management Services (Pvt) Limited was that they had transferred 5,005 shares

in George Stuart Management Services (Pvt) Limited to Mr. Naganathan Aiyathurai

and/ or Mrs. Mary Ong and/ or Rovenco Company Limited, contravening the

provisions of Section 11(2) of the Exchange Control Act, as the aforesaid persons are

resident outside Sri Lanka, and the said shares were transferred without the

permission of the Central Bank.

When the aforesaid allegations were made, investigations were conducted by a

Parliamentary Consultative Committee appointed to inquire into the sale of Kotagala

Plantations Limited on or about July 1995 one Mr. Aiyathurai, a Malaysian national

and one Mr. Mutusamy, a Sri Lankan national met the Chairman of the George Stuart

Company and discussed investing in George Stuart Management Services (Pvt)

Limited and, in view of the discussion, a Memorandum of Understanding was entered

5

into on the 4th of August 1995 between the George Stuart Company Limited on one

hand and Mr. Mutusamy and Mr. Aiyathurai on the other. According to the

Memorandum of Understanding, the investors had agreed to pay Rs.100m in stages as

consideration for the transfer of a total of 5,005 shares in George Stuart Management

Services (Pvt) Limited and to arrange for the issue of a guarantee from an acceptable

bank for a sum of Rs.5m on behalf of George Stuart Management Services (Pvt)

Limited to the Public Enterprises Reform Commission. Accordingly, on the 4th August

1955, Mr. Aiyaturai made available to George Stuart Management Services (Pvt)

Limited a Pay Order for Rs.5m from the Commercial Bank, which George Stuart

Management Services (Pvt) Limited deposited with PERC. On 2nd November 1995, Mr.

Aiyathurai furnished George Stuarts Management Services (Pvt) Limited with a Pay

Order in favour of the Secretary to the Treasury from ABN Amro Bank for Rs.17.2m as

10% of the down payment required to purchase Kotagala Plantations Limited shares

and, on the same day, 2nd November 1995, Mr. Aiyathurai paid a further Rs.7m by

means of an ABN Amro Bank Pay Order to George Stuart Management Services (Pvt)

Limited, as part payment, for the purchase of George Stuart Management Services

(Pvt) Limited shares. For the said payment, Mr. Aiyaturai and his wife, Mary Ong, had

obtained inward remittances into Sri Lanka. These two, Mr. Aiyathurai and his wife

are foreign nationals. None of the said inward remittances had been routed through a

share investment external rupee account (SIERA) as requested by the governmental

regulations published in the gazette notification No.721/4 of 29/06/1992 and gazette

notification No.720/1212 of 24/06/1992 in respect of investments by non-residents in

companies incorporated in Sri Lanka. The aforesaid persons had not made any

declaration of residence outside Sri Lanka, as stipulated in the aforementioned

gazettes, even though Mr. Aiyathurai, Mrs. Mary Ong and Rovenco Company Limited

were non-resident foreign nationals. The aforesaid gazette notification contained a

format of declaration that had to be furnished by the foreign national in case of

purchase of shares in Sri Lanka. In 1996, the share holding in George Stuart

Management Services (Pvt) Limited was as follows:-

J !

6

1. 40% held by Rovenco Company Limited incorporated in Thailand;

2. 60% transfer in blank but, in fact, the sum purchased was paid by Mr.

Naganathan Aiyathurai and Mrs. Mary Ong and Rovenco Limited.

On the 1st of April1996, a MOU was entered into between Lankem on one part and Mr.

Aiyathurai, Rovenco and Mrs. Mary Ong on the other, for the sale of the entirety of the

shares in George Stuart Management Services (Pvt) Limited to Lankem for the sum of

Rs.400m. Thereafter 60% of shares had been transferred by handing over transfer forms

which Mr. Aiyathurai received from George Stuart Limited and others, which did not

carry the transferee name, as it was kept blank. The balance 40%, as shares, had been

transferred by Rovenco Company Limited by filling in new transfer forms signed by

Mr. Aiyathurai and Mrs. Mary Ong, as its Directors.

From the above transactions, it is evident, that the shareholders of George Stuart

Management Services (Pvt) Limited had transferred 100% of shares to persons resident

outide Sri Lanka though transfer forms for 5005 shares issued in blank, but they were,

in fact, transferred to Mr. Aiyathurai, Mary Ong and Rovenco Company Limited. As

the transfer forms do not contain the names of the transferee and was issued blank,

indicates that the transferees were aware of the transaction and the consequence to

transfer to non-residents. In these circumstances the Respondent's decision, that the

said conduct contravenes the provisions of Section 11(2) of the Exchange Control Act,

cannot be considered as illegal or unreasonable. Before arriving at the said conclusion

an inquiry was conducted into the sale of George Stuart Management Services (Pvt)

Limited, shares by the Department of Exchange Control, and a fair hearing was given to

the Chairman of George Stuart Company and its Directors, and the evidence revealed

the shares were purchased by Mr. Aiyathurai, Mary Ong and Rovenco Company

7

Limited, and all these persons are foreign nationals. In the above circumstances the

Petitioner cannot complain that the said decision of the 1st Respondent dated 16th July

1995 and/ or the decision made in appeal by the Honourable Minister of Finance dated

9th March 2000 were illegal or unreasonable and, therefore, I dismiss this application

without cost.

President of the Court of Appeal

II

fII. fl t If

I

J

f

1t

~ I'r

I

l

t