==== BLOCKS ==== 

I i I

f I

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA 125/2000 F

DC Kurunegala 4092 / P

Mil Ele Devage Baby Nona, Moratenna, Indulgodakanda.

Vs.

Plaintiff

1. Mil Ele Gedara Wansathilake, 2. Mil Ele Gedara Podinona, Moratenna, Indulgodakanda, 3. Mil Ele Gedara Ukkuamma, Indulgodakanda, Walpolakanda. 4. Mil Ele Gedara Somawathie, Parape, Ihalagama. 5. Mil Ele Gedara Wimalawathie, Indulgodakanda, Moratenna.

Defendants

AND NOW BETWEEN

Mil Ele Devage Baby Nona, Moratenna, Indulgodakanda.

Plaintiff Appellant

Vs

1. Mil Ele Gedara Wansathilake, 2. Mil Ele Gedara Podinona, Moratenna, Indulgodakanda,

2

3. Mil Ele Gedara Ukkuamma, Indulgodakanda, Walpolakanda. 4. Mil Ele Gedara Somawathie, Parape, Ihalagama. 5. Mil Ele Gedara Wimalawathie, Indulgodakanda, Moratenna.

Defendant Respondents

BEFORE : UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

The Plaintiff Appellant - absent and unrepresented

Arjuna Kurukulasooriya with Hashan Mamuhewa

for the 1st to 5th Defendant Respondents

10.10.2013

08.11.2013

The Plaintiff Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant)

instituted the said action against the 1st to 5th Defendant Respondents (hereinafter

referred to as the Respondents) seeking to partition the land described in the

schedule to the plaint. The Respondents have filed their statement of claim seeking

a dismissal of the Appellant's action and to partition the corpus as shown in their

pedigree. The case proceeded to trial on 11 issues. After trial the learned District

Judge has delivered a judgment in favour of the Respondents. Being aggrieved by

the said judgment dated 11.02.2000 the Appellant has appealed to this Court.

3

In the petition of appeal the Appellant has stated that the learned

District Judge has failed to evaluate the evidence led before court. The Appellant

claimed that she was the only child of Sepala who was the predecessor in tile of the

Appellant and after his death his rights devolved on her. The Respondents' position

was that the Appellant was not a child of said Sepala and the 1 st 5th Respondents

were the children of said Sepala and his rights devolved on them as shown in their

pedigree.

At the trial the Appellant has produced her birth certificate marked P 1

III order to prove her pedigree. The respondents have led the evidence of

Pathiratnage Jayawardana who was an officer of the Office of the Registrar of

Births and Deaths, Kurunegala in order to prove that the said birth certificate P 1

was a forged document. The said witness has testified that P 1 was a forged

document. Accordingly the Appellant has failed to prove her pedigree. Therefore

she is not entitled to claim any right from said Sepala.

I have carefully considered the impugned judgment of the learned

District Judge and the said evidence of the case. I am of the view that the learned

trial judge has come to a right conclusion on the said evidence led before court.

In the said circumstances I see no reason to interfere with the

judgement of the learned District Judge dated 11.02.2000. Therefore I dismiss the

appeal of the Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

1f II [ I

t