==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

c.A. (PHC) 88/2012 C.A. (PHC) 89/2012 C.A (PHC)136/2012

w. A. R. C. Perera

(Presently detained at the Magazine

Remand Prison, Colombo).

ACCUSED-PETITIONER

Vs.

1. Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

2. Officer In Charge

Colombo Criminal Division

No. 214, Kollonnawa Road,

Dematagoda, Colombo 9.

3. Officer In Charge

Homicide Investigation Unit,

Criminal Investigations Department

Colombo 1.

RESPONDENTS-RESPONDENTS

BEFORE:

COUNSel:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

GOONERATNE J.

Anil Gooneratne J. &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake J.

Saliya Peiris with Lasitha Sachindra for the Accused-Petitioner

W.J.S. Fernando P.c., A.S.G., with Anoopa de Silva S.S.c.

for Respondents-Respondents

28.3.2013 & 31.03.2014

27.05.2014

2

The Accused-Petitioner in this revision application at the time of his

arrest was a Lieutenant Colonel in the Sri Lanka Army. As pleaded Petitioner is

detained in the Welikada Remand Prison, Colombo. It is also pleaded inter alia

that on or about 14.5.2009, a team of police officers came to his house and

interrogated the Petitioner in relation to an alleged association with identified

L TTE suspect. Thereafter petitioner was arrested on a charge of committing

acts/offences against the state. Though numerous positions were taken in the

pleadings and submissions before this court, the only matter to be decided is

1 ,

J I ! 1 j I I j j I j j j 1 'I J I

1 j I I I I ! ,

I

3

whether the Petitioner could be enlarged on bail as per sub-paragraph (b) of

the prayer to the petition whereby the Petitioner seek to set aside the order of

the learned High Court Judge dated 14.5.2012 (contained in document P6).

The learned counsel for the Petitioner argued that bail provisions

under the Emergency Regulations are less stringent than the provisions

contained in the Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA). He also submitted that

Emergency Regulations permit the release of the suspect, unlike under the

powers of the PTA. Learned counsel strenuously argued that the Emergency

Regulations lapsed on 30.8.2011. As such with the lapse of Emergency

Regulations procedural law applicable including the provisions of bail is no

longer the Emergency Regulations, but the general law that would apply in the

context of this application.

In support of his views several rules of interpretations were cited to

this court. We are mindful of all those submissions made on behalf of the

Accused-Petitioner.

Learned Additional Solicitor General basically relied on the gazette

regulation itself to convey his point and argued otherwise. He also cited the

case reported in S.C 637/95.

i,; i I,Ii

~

r

4

The order of the learned High court Judge contained at P6, although

very brief, specifically states that with the lapse of Emergency Regulations and

even though the case had been filed under the Emergency Regulations, be

deemed to have been in remand in terms of the Prevention of Terrorism

(Temporary Provisions) act. Trial Judge further states that when charges are

framed under the provisions of the Prevention of Terrorism Act a suspect

could be enlarged on bail only with the sanction and consent of the Hon.

Attorney General.

The relevant Gazette Notification of 29th August 2011, which

regulations, are cited as the Prevention of Terrorism (Detainees and

Remandees) Regulations No. 4 of 2011. I would for purpose of clarity

incorporate the relevant provisions as follows:

Section 2(1) Any person who has been detained in terms of the provisions of any

emergency regulation which was in operation on the day immediately

prior to the date on which these regulations came into operation, shall

forthwith on the coming into operation of these regulations, be produced

before the relevant Magistrate, who shall take steps to detain such

person in terms of the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code Act No.

15 of 1979.

(2) Any person who has -

(a) been remanded by a Magistrate in connection with the commission of an

offence in terms of the provisions of any emergency regulation which

I I 1 I

,

~

1 1

~ I I

1 I

~ i

~ I

1 I I I ! i

\

i

(b)

5

was in operation on the day immediately prior to the date on which these

regulations came into operation; or

been connected with or concerned in, or who is reasonably suspected of

being connected with or concerned in the commission of any unlawful

activity within the meaning of the Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary

Provisions) Act, No. 48 of 1979.

The above regulations no doubt has made provisions to cater to the

problem in hand. There is no ambiguity in same. I see no basis to interfere with

the learned High Court Judge's order. The regulation in question could be

called subordinate legislation. The Accused had been arrested for a ~

serious offence. The offence no doubt connects either directly or indirectly to

the colossal damage caused to the country (person and property) for several

years and what kept our country under a cloud. Merely because the

Emergency Regulation has lapsed would not mean that the state could risk its

security to the nation. There is no objection in law to a valid determination

order under Emergency Regulations being immediately followed upon its

expiry by a valid detention order under the PTA (vide S.c. 637/95). It is evident

that in these circumstances that Regulation No.4 of 2011 was passed. I would

cite Maxwell on the Interpretation of States 12th Ed. Pg. 45 (applicable even to

subordinate legislation). In determining either the general object of the

j ! ! j I

J t !

j I

t j I

I

I

6

legislature or the meaning of its language in any particular passage, it is

obvious that the intention which appears to be most in accord with

convenience, reason, justice and legal principles should in all cases of doubtful

significance, be prescribed to be the true one.

I would state that intention to produce an unreasonable result need

to be rejected.

In the above circumstances we affirm the order of the learned High

Court Judge. Applications of Accused-Petitionerdismissed.

Application dismissed.

I agree. cJ-:>-

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake J.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

\

J

l t