==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

W. A. Kamal Priyantha

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

C.A No. 45/2008

H.C. Hambanthota 110/1999

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

P.R. Walgama J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDENT

P. K. Prince Perera for the Accused-Appellant

Dilan Ratnayake S.S.C for the Complainant-Respondent

25.11.2014

21.01.2015

1

I

I

I

IIIIlI I

ff

It

r

ltt

J

I

2

GOONERATNE J.

The Accused-Appellant was indicted for the murder of one M. Sunil

on or about 23.12.1993. He was convicted and sentenced to death on

04.04.2008. Prosecution version is that the main witness was walking on the

road along with the deceased at about 2.30/3.00 in the afternoon from

Denagama in the direction of Bowala. Deceased is a close relative of the

witness and described in evidence as eDt Im®c) a~t»t» ~ ~. It is in evidence

that at a certain point whilst walking the deceased was given a blow by

something (oeoc> ~dJ ~C) ~~dJeD) ~). Witness was able to identify the

Accused-Appellant at the identification parade, and he also identified the

Accused in open court. It is in evidence that by the very first blow given to the

Accused party the witness having seen the first blow had fled the scene, and

gone to the nearby police station.

I also find that on perusing the evidence the witness had been

probed further by the prosecuting counsel about the weapon used and his

answer was, (jO>@@t» ~csS e>~ (fet» ~e5». Witness having lodged a

complaint at the police about the allege assault on the deceased came to the

t:

fI

,

~ , II

tI , t I I! iI, i ! I

I

3

scene of the crime along with the police and found the deceased lying on the

ground little away from the scene of the crime. The mother of the deceased

also testified who lives in the adjoining property of the Accused-Appellant.

When this witness (mother) was sweeping the property the Accused had come

close to the fence and uttered the words 'e~ti> atD)(!cs:5 1mt~ (fOeCS)es> e:>e065

~C)@~. Then the witness had gone in the direction of the Accused and on

the way found the body of the deceased.

The Medico Legal Report gives details of 11 cut injuries cause of

death was due to shock and hemorrhage following multiple injuries to the

body with damage to internal organs.

Learned counsel for Accused-Appellant inter alia submitted that the

prosecution case has not been established beyond reasonable doubt. He refers

to the contradictions marked V1 & V2 and submits that the main witness for

the prosecution is highly unreasonable and unworthy of credit. It was also

emphasized that the learned trial Judge has failed to consider and analyse the

dock statement of the Accused-Appellant. Evidence of witness No. (1) is not

consistent with the medical evidence. The object/weapon used by the Accused

is in doubt. Whether it was a club or a kaththy? No 'kaththy' was marked and

identified and no evidence led on this connection. He also submitted that

fI

Il \

4

evidence only reveal that the Accused only dealt one blow and left the scene

of the crime. In the absence of strong of evidence as to what weapon was used

it is unsafe to convict the Accused? Learned counsel also submitted that the

circumstantial evidence if at all would not connect the Accused-Appellant with

the crime. He also submitted that circumstances of the case does not match

the culpability of the Accused-Appellant.

Learned Senior State Counsel supported the conviction and sentence.

He inter alia submitted that the contradiction mentioned are not material to

the prosecution case and cannot harm the prosecution case on any account.

Learned trial Judge has carefully analysed the evidence led at the trial and

evaluation of evidence is contained at folios 176-178 of the record. As regards

the contradiction the trial Judge has correctly approached same at folio 179

and given a correct ruling since such contradiction do not go to the root of the

case and not material contradictions.

I find that the learned trial Judge at folios 178-180 had considered

and given serious thought to the contradictions V1 & V2. This court need not

once again narrate the reason of the trial Judge as regards the alleged

contradictions. These sort of contradictions could occur when human beings

give evidence may be after a period of time. We are satisfied that the

1•lI

f II

f I f I

f I( !

j j 1 I I I

1

5

contradictions do not go to the root of the case. In the famous Bihoginbhai

Hirjibbai vs. State of Gujarat ... held by and large a witness cannot be expected

to possess a photographic memory and to recall the details of an incident. It is

not as if a video tape is replayed on the mental screen. Therefore we reject the

argument based on contradictions by the learned defence counsel. There

cannot also be a doubt of identity since the incident took place in broad day

light. Further the witness was in a way known to the Accused and identified at

the identification parade. All this may have been the idea of the Accused party

to correct it with contradictions, but such an argument would necessarily fail.

The first blow was dealt by the Accused and this was very clearly

seen by the main prosecution witness. Others on the road were persons

walking or by standers. Sufficient questions had been posed by counsel from

the witness, to exclude all other from the scene of the crime. The test of

spontaneously could be well maintained since the main eye witness promptly

informed the police and gave a statement. The case of the prosecution is

fortified by the evidence of the 2nd prosecution witness. I have already

referred to the utterance made by the Accused party. This is an item of

IIIi

f! ! I, , f ti I[

f

II I

t I

~ l ! I f ,

I I I

•

6

evidence relevant to the question of the culpability of the Accused. Evidence

of the 2nd prosecution witness had not been challenged on any material

aspect.

I have to conclude that it would be grossly unfair to state that the

trial Judge has omitted to consider the evidence of the Accused party. What is

contained in the Judgment of the learned trial Judge on the material contained

in the dock statement is more than adequate. This court had nothing more to

add on same. Nor has the Accused party cross examined on matters contained

in the dock statement, from the prosecution witness. We have considered the

case of the prosecution and the Accused-Appellant, and we cannot interfere

with the views of the learned High Court Judge's views and reasoning on same.

As such we affirm the conviction and sentence and proceed to dismiss this

appeal.

Appeal dismissed. en.:Y Csv-,~A

JUDGE OF TH~ OF APPEAL

P.R. Walgama J.

I agree.

f Ii

i I t I l

~ I I f , I !! II I I

f