==== BLOCKS ==== 

; 1 ! 1 I I

j I

1 1 i

; i 1 I 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for Revision

1. Dahanayakage alias Dasanayaka,

Mudiyanselage Gunawathie of

Angitihaldeniya,

Anhettigama.

2. Udabage Vidanelage Nandawathi,

Vidyal Mawatha, Deraniyagala.

C.A.(Revision) Application No: 144/2003

D.C.Avissawella Case No.1759/P Vs

Plaintiff

1.Dahankge alias Dasanayaka Mudiyanselage

Punchi Mahathmaya of Angitihaldeniya,

Anhettigama.

And five (05) others.

Defendants

Now Between

Udapola Dahanayakage Siriwardena,

Of Udapola, Malwathukanda,

Deraniyagala.

1 st Claimant Petitioner

Vs

1. Dahanayakage alias Dasanayaka,

Mudiyanselage Gunawathie of

Angitihaldeniya,

Anhettigama.

i I \ II ! !

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued on

Decided on

S.Sriskandarajah, J,

2. Udabage Vidanelage Nandawathi,

Vidyal Mawatha, Deraniyagala.

2

Plaintiff- Respondent

Dahankge alias Dasanayaka Mudiyanselage

Punchi Mahathmaya of Angitihaldeniya,

Anhettigama.

And fourteen (14 ) others.

Defendants-Respondent

1. Erathna Pathirennehelage Podimahaththaya.

of Udapola, Malwathukanda.

Deraniyagala.

And six (06) others.

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J.

Rohan Sahabandu,

for the Petitioner

Samantha Vithana

Claimant Respondents

for the Plaintiff-Respondent.

Vijith Singh with Sandamal Rajapakse

for the 2nd ,3rd and 4th Claimant -Respondent.

04.11.2010

28.02.2011

The Plaintiff Respondent instituted a partition action to partition a land called

"Gallenehena" which was in extend of 10 pelas among themselves and 1st to 4th

Defendants Respondents. It is the position of the Petitioner that when the survey

3

was conducted on a commission issued by court to prepare preliminary plan during

6th to 8th March 1987 the Petitioner and five other persons claimed rights in the said

land before the surveyor. The surveyor had submitted a report to court to this effect.

The Plaintiffs tendered to court notices to be served on the new claimants and the

court made order to issue notice on the claimants returnable on 12.08.1991. The

notices on the 1st and 2nd claimants were not served as the addresses were

insufficient. The Petitioner contended that the Plaintiffs' had not taken steps either

to tender the correct address of the said claimants ( Petitioner) or to add them as

party to the partition action. The case proceeded to trial and evidence was led to the

effect that the buildings marked A and B in the preliminary plan belongs to the

Petitioner. The learned District Judge relying on this evidence kept the portions of

the land in which the said buildings are situated un allotted. The Petitioner

contended that he never received any notice from the court and it is apparent from

the case record that on 12.08 1991 the court has made order to serve notice on the

Petitioner. The Plaintiff has not taken steps either to issue notice on the Petitioner or

to add this petitioner a party to this partition action.

The failure on the part of the Plaintiff to make the Petitioner a party to the Partition

action alone will not give right to the Petitioner to seek an order to revise the

Judgement and the Interlocutory Decree entered in the said partition action. It is a

mandatory requirement under Section 5 of the Partition Act to include in the plaint

of the plaintiff as parties to the action all persons who, whether in actual possession

or not, to his knowledge are entitled or claim to be entitled to any right, share or

interest to, of, or in the land to which the action relates or to any improvements

made or effected on or to the land. But a failure to comply with this mandatory

requirement will only result in the rejection of the plaint as provided under Section

7. In the instant case this stage has passed and the plaint was accepted and the case

proceeded and the Judgement and the Interlocutory Decree were entered. The only

action that can be taken against the plaintiff is to institute proceedings in the

Magistrates Court for the commission of an offence under Section 71(1) of the

\ I I I I[ I J ! !

4

Partition Law if it can be proved that the Plaintiff, knowing that the Petitioner has

any interest in the land to which such action relates, fraudulently or dishonestly fails

or omits to disclose in the pleading filed by him, the fact that such person has such

interest or that such person is a necessary party to such action.

The plaintiff's position is that after the surveyor filed his report the necessary notices

were tendered to court to issue on the claimants who made claims before the

surveyor, according to the journal entry appears in the case record that the notice

was not served on the Petitioner as the address provided is insufficient to serve the

notice. The learned counsel for the Petitioner contended that the service of notice is

the duty of court and the failure on the part of the court to perform this function

would amount to an error of law. As the said judgment was entered without

complying with that statutory duty this court should exercise its revisionary powers

and revise the said judgement. It is the duty of the plaintiff in a partition action to

file in court the notices which are to be sent to every claimant (not being a party to

the action) who is mentioned in the report of the surveyor Under Subsection (2)(a) of

Section 20. The court shall order notice of a partition action to be sent by registered

post- to every claimant (not being a party to the action) who is mentioned in the

report of the surveyor Under Subsection (1) of Section 20. In this instant case the

notices were tendered by the Plaintiff and the Court ordered that the notices to be

sent by registered post but in fact it was not served on the party to be added as the

address was not sufficient to deliver the notice. One has to observe that the duty cast

on the court is to order for the service of notice by registered post but the law has

not imposed a burden on the court to make every claimant (not being a party to the

action) who is mentioned in the report of the surveyor a party to the action. It is the

duty of the person receiving notice under subsection (1) of this section 20 to apply

by motion in writing to add him as a party on or before the date specified in the

notice as provided by Subsection (3) of Section 20. In this background the Petitioner

who is aware of the partition action and as he has made a claim before the surveyor

5

should have been vigilant in establishing his rights. If the position of the Petitioner is

that he has not received notice then he is entitled under Section 69 to apply to court

at any time before judgment is delivered that he should be added as a party to the

action and the court may add him as a party to the action, but the Petitioner has not

taken this steps until the Interlocutory Decree is entered in the Partition action. The

Partition action was pending in the District court from 1984 to 2001 for a period of

over 16 years and after the interlocutory was entered the Petitioner has waited 16

months to file this application. These delays are not explained by the Petitioner.

On the other hand the properties that are claimed by the Petitioner are un allotted in

the Judgement and therefore the Petitioner is not prejudiced by the judgement and

the Interlocutory Decree. Further the Petitioner under Section 49(1) of the said Act

would vindicate his rights by a separate action and claim damages from any party to

the action by whose act, whether of commission or omission, such damages may

have accrued and where the whole or any part of such damages cannot be recovered

from any such party, recover such damages or part thereof from any other person

who has benefited by any such act of such party. In Perera and Others v Adline and

Others [2000]3 Sri L R 93,Jayawickrema, J held:

" According to S.48(5) and S.48(1) it is clear that the only remedy available to a

person who was not a party to a partition action, is to file a separate action to recover

damages from any party to the action, if he says that his land has been partitioned.

The above provisions state that "the amount of damages shall be a charge on any

share of the land or any money allotted in such action" makes it clear that a party will

not be prejudiced by the mere fact of not being added as a party - S.49( 1) prevents

such prejudice.

Although in an appropriate case this Court has jurisdiction to act in Revision and

restitutio-in-integrum, but where a party has deliberately not shown due diligence even

after he was notified by the Surveyor to appear in Court and fails to apply to be added

I!

..

6

as a party, this Court will not exercise its jurisdiction in his favour."

For the above reasons this court dismisses this application without costs.

/. ~/L----' /"fudge of the Court of Appeal