==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Daas Kankanamge Nobert Perera, Kaduruduwa, Wanchawala Galle.

Plaintiff-Appellant C.A. NO. 1009/98(F) D.C.GALLE CASE N0.10985/L

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON

DECIDED ON

Vs

Daas Kankanamge Chandrapala Perera,

Kaduruduwa, Wanchawala Gall e.

Substituted-Defendant-Respondent

K. T. CHITRASIRI, J

N.R.M.Daluwatta, P.C. with Chatura Galhena Attorney-at-Law for the Plaintiff- Appellant

Rohan Sahabandu, P.C. with Hasitha Amarasinghe Attorney-at-Law for the Substituted-Defendant-Respondent

22.02.2013

06th May 2013 by the Substituted -Defendant-Respondent

OSth June 2013 by the Plaintiff-Appellant

20™ JUNE 2013

2

CHITRASIRI,J.

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the judgment dated 30.09.1998 of

the learned District Judge of Galle. In the petition of appeal the plaintiff-

appellant (hereinafter referred to as the plaintiff) also sought to have a

judgment in favour of the plaintiff as prayed for in his plaint dated 17.11.1986.

The said reliefs prayed for in the plaint include; to obtain a declaration,

declaring that the plaintiff is the rightful owner of the land referred to in

paragraph 2 of the plaint and to eject the defendant and his agents therefrom.

The plaintiff also prayed to have a judgment declaring that the deed bearing

No.3068 by which the defendant-respondent (hereinafter referred to as the

defendant) claims title is null and void. The defendant in his answer has

sought to have a declaration declaring that he is entitled to the land in dispute

in view of the said deed No.3068 (V3) and also to declare that the deed bearing

No.42542 (P7) by which the plaintiff claims title, be null and avoid.

Hence, it is clear that the two parties to the action claim title to the one

and the same land through competing deeds bearing Nos.42542 and 3068.

Therefore, the issue before Court is to determine as to which deed prevails over

the other. Admittedly, original owner of the land in dispute had been Margret

Perera who is the mother of the plaintiff as well as the defendant by virtue of

the deed bearing No.2151 dated 31.1.1941 marked as "P6" in evidence. The

plaintiff claims title by the deed bearing No.44279 (P8) dated 21.11.1984 and

the transferor in that deed namely Weerasiri, had acquired title from Margret

i

j . -- --- --- .

3

Perera by the aforesaid deed bearing No.42542 marked as "P7'' in evidence.

The defendant has obtained title directly from Margret Perera by the deed

bearing No.3068 dated 28.10.1984. Accordingly, it is seen that the two parties

claim title to the said land through two different deeds bearing Nos.42542 and

3068 and the vendor to both these deeds happened to be Margret Perera who is

the mother of the parties to this action. Plaintiff's claim is to have the deed

42542 declared valid whilst the defendant's claim is to have the same declared

null and void so that his deed 3068 would become valid in law.

The important issue before Court then is to decide whether the deed

42542 marked "P7'' is capable of passing title to its vendee. Indeed, the issues

suggested by both parties are directed basically to determine the validity of the

deed bearing No.42542. The defendant has challenged the execution of the said

deed 42542. Therefore, it is necessary to consider whether the said deed

42542 had been executed in the manner required by law.

The Notary namely, Sumathipala Maitipe who attested the deed

No.42542 has given evidence. He has stated that the said deed was attested by

him at a place called Kalahe and not at his office in Galle but of course, it is

within his jurisdiction. He has then stated that the vendor to the deed namely,

Margret Perera was feeble at the time of execution of the deed and she was

around 75 years in age then. He has also said that Margaret Perera made an

effort to place her signature by writing few letters but thereafter obtained her

4

left thumb impression as she could not sign on the deed. He has further said

that Margret Perera was not feeling well at the time the deed was executed.

The Notary also has clearly stated that the consideration amounted to

Rs.3,500 j- that had been agreed by the parties to effect the sale of the land

subjected to the deed in question was given to one Nalani Perera and not to the

transferor Margret Perera. Nalani Perera's relationship to Margret Perera was

also in doubt. In the attestation clause, the Notary has stated that the money

or the consideration for the transaction was handed over in his presence to

Nalani Perera. Accordingly, it is clear that the consideration that should have

been given to the seller Margret Perera was not received by her. Instead it was

given to Nalani Perera. The aforesaid facts being revealed by the evidence

found at page 117 onwards in the appeal brief. Even in answer to the Court,

the Notary has said that the vendor did not accept the money. (at page 128 of

the appeal brief) In the circumstances, it is clear that the consideration passed

in connection with the transaction that took place between the parties to the

deed was not received by the transferor to that deed. Therefore, it is not

incorrect to decide that the deed 42542 by which the plaintiff claims title is not

capable of transferring clear title to its transferee through whom the plaintiff

claims title.

Moreover, the circumstances under which the questioned deed was

executed would lead to create suspicion as to the sale of the property. Such

5

circumstances have been critically analyzed by the learned trial judge. She has

referred to the way in which the signature of Margaret Perera had been

obtained to the deed. Also, she has dealt with the manner by which the thumb

impression of Margret Perera was placed instead of obtaining her signature.

Margaret Perera used to place her signature even when she withdrew her

pension soon before this transaction took place. Significantly, Margaret Perera

has signed on the deed bearing No.3068 marked "V3" when transferring the

land to the defendant even after placing her thumb impression to the deed

No.42542. Those circumstances show that Magret Perera was in a position to

sign on the deed 42542 though she has alleged to have placed her thumb

impression on the same. Those facts relating to the manner in which the deed

42542 had been executed was carefully considered by the learned District

Judge and had come to the conclusion that the execution of the deed "P7''

should not be accepted as an act of Margaret Perera.

At this stage, it must be noted that the trial Judge having considered the

evidence recorded in this case has held that the deed "P7'' is not capable of

passing the title to the plaintiff. As mentioned before, she has extensively

analyzed the evidence of all the witnesses including the parties to the action in

coming to the said conclusion. She has evaluated the evidence and had

decided to reject the evidence adduced on behalf of the plaintiff as to the

execution of the deed marked "P7''.

i ..

6

Against such a back-drop, it is necessary to mention that the best person

to decide as to the facts of the case that had been led in evidence is the Trial

Judge who heard and saw the witnesses giving evidence. This position had

been accepted in the cases of:

• De Silva vs. Seneviratne

[1981 (2) S.L.R.at page 8]

• Frad vs. Brown & Co.

[28 N .L.R. at page 282]

• Alwis vs. Piyasena Fernando

[1993(1) S.L.R. at page 119]

• Mahavithana vs. Commissioner of Inland Revenue

[64 N. L. R. at page 217]

This Court is bound to follow the law referred to in the decisions

mentioned hereinbefore. Hence, I am not inclined to interfere with the

decision of the learned District Judge based on the facts of the case

particularly the manner in which the questioned deed 42542 was

executed.

I will now turn to consider the submissions made by the learned

President's Counsel for the appellant on the issue of maintainability of

the defence of "fraud" when it is taken up in a civil suit. He submitted

' .

7

that a party who takes up the defence of fraud should have specifically

pleaded committing of fraud and thereafter it is the burden of that

person who takes up such a defence to prove the same. In support of his

contention he has referred to the cases namely;

V.A. Appuhamy vs. Belin Nona [53 N.L.R.at pg.448] and

Annamaly Chetty v. Sidambaram Chetti [33 N.L.R. at pag.277]

It must be noted that the defendant in this instance has not relied

on the defence of fraud. He has merely taken up the position that the

execution of "P7'' is bad in law. Therefore, the contention of the learned

President's Counsel does not relate to the issue at hand. Even in the

Court below, no such defence had been taken up. Therefore, I am not

inclined to consider the law relating to the defence of fraud in this

instance as contended by the learned President's Counsel for the

appellant.

For the aforesaid reasons, I do not wish to interfere with the

findings of the learned Trial Judge. Accordingly, this appeal is dismissed

with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL