==== BLOCKS ==== 

'

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. Application No. 32/2008 (Writ)

An application for Writ of

Mandamus.

Citialert Security (Pvt.) Ltd,

No.27, Jethawana Road,

Colombo-14.

PETITIONER

Vs.

1. Ananda Kosala Eleperuma, No.27, Jethawana Road, Colombo-14.

2. Ceylon Electricity Board, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo-02.

3. Mrs. P.H.D. Zoysa,

Area Engineer, Ceylon Electricity Board, (Colombo North Office) 74/5, 1/1, Grandpass Road, Colombo-14.

RESPONDENTS

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

JUDGEMNT ON:

Anil Gooneratne, J.

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Deepali Wijesundera, J .

Romesh de Silva P.C., with Sugath Caldera for the Petitioner

S. Thalagasingham with Chandrika Morawaka for the 1st Respondents.

Faiz Musthapa PC with A. Panditharatne for the 2nd and 3rd Respondents.

29.05.2013

04.07.2013

2

The Petitioner Co. has been running a firm of Security service, and seeks a Writ of

Mandamus as prayed for in sub para (a) of the prayer to the petition directing the

respondent to supply electricity to the part of premises No. 27, Jethawana Road,

Colombo-14. The premises as described in the 2nd schedule to the petition is occupied by

the petitioner. The prayer 'a' refers to as the respondent. However by sub para 'b' it is

evident that relief is more particularly sought against the Ceylon Electricity Board the 2nd

respondent. lt is pleaded that the 1st respondent let to the petitioner and the petitioner

took on rent the premises in dispute. The details of payment of telephone bills, tax

receipts, EPF payments etc are contained in paragraphs 4 and 5 of the petition.

3

The submissions of learned President's counsel Mr. Romesh de Silva for the petitioner

demonstrates that at a certain point of time there were disputes between the petitioner

tenant and the 1st respondent landlord. lt was submitted that part of the ground floor at

27, Jethawana Road is not separately assessed and electricity connection to premises No.

27 above has been supplied at the request of the 1st respondent. Petitioners electricity

connection as pleaded had been obtained through the connection given to the premises

as requested by the 1st respondent. lt is also pleaded that no electricity bills were sent but

the petitioner as shown in X16 to X25 paid money to the 1st respondent for consumption

of electricity (receipt of T/S deposits) There is also reference to a District Court case (RE

9046) where the petitioner instituted action against the 1st respondent . Certain terms of

settlement marked X12 to X14 are produced to prove that the 1st respondent agreed not

to discontinue electricity and water supply. lt is also stated that it was found that the 1st

respondent had illegally supplied electricity to tenants and the Electricity Board

disconnected electricity and fined the 1st respondent a sum of Rs. 621,924/- ( 1st

respondent paid the fine and obtained electricity)

lt is also the case of the petitioner that the petitioner obtained a mandatory injunction

directing the 2"d respondent to grant electricity in case No. 20875/L ( X15). However the

Mandatory injunction was dissolved on 16.01.2008. ( vide para 20 of the petition) The

petitioner attempts to demonstrate by X31 ( 15.02.2006) that the petitioner applied for

electricity supply from the CEB, but it was not granted. In order to understand the case of

the petitioner and petitioners application to obtain a writ of Mandamus, the following

averments in the petition are reproduced for purposes of clarity.

4

The petitioner further pleads that the Electricity Board has duly and properly and in

accordance with the law supplied electricity to the said premises from 19th April 2006 to

December 2007.

In the circumstances the petitioner pleads that;

a) The petitioner has been in occupation of the said part of the premises from 1994

up to date;

b) The electricity is essential for the business of the petitioner and/or for the

occupation of the premises;

c) The said part occupied by the petitioner is separately rewired and is rewired

independently of the rest of the premises;

d) There is a separate meter to gauge the supply of electricity to the said part of the

premises;

e) Electricity can be supplied directly by the 2nd respondent to the part of the

premises occupied by the petitioner;

f) The petitioner has requested for a supply of electricity to the part of the said

premises.

In any event and without prejudice to aforesaid from on or about 19th April 2006 the

2nd respondent has been supplying electricity to the said part of the premises occupied

by the petitioner.

The learned counsel for the 1

5t respondent objects to any relief being granted to the

petitioner mainly on the basis that the petitioner is in illegal occupation of the premises

5

in dispute. The learned President's counsel for the 2nd and 3rd respondent emphasizes the

fact that the Petitioner has to be treated as a trespasser by the approach to judicial

pronouncements, in other cases made as regards the subject matter of this case, and that

prima facie facts establish illegal occupancy of the petitioner. However to a question

posed by this Court as to whether any loss has been caused to the 2nd respondent, the.

learned President's counsel answer was in the negative.

We have considered the case of each party. No doubt it is manifest from the

available material that there is a dispute on tenancy. lt also transpired in the course of

argument that a rent and ejectment case is pending in the District Court of Colombo.

Whatever it may be what we could gather from oral submissions and the pleadings is that

whenever a Court grants a mandatory injunction electricity connection is granted to the

petitioner. Moment the Court dissolved the injunction the 2nd respondent discontinued

same. lt cannot be the function of a statutory authority to act in such a rash manner even

if the authority is bound to supply or discontinue electricity in terms of a Court orders. The

purpose for which electricity is sought cannot be the criteria under the law to grant or

refuse electricity connection to a consumer. The purpose for which electricity is supplied

is no basis, to refuse to provide the facility. Electricity is an utility item, and essential to

any persons livelihood. The preamble to the Electricity Act and the Ceylon Electricity

Board Act both contemplate to regulate the generation, transmission, transformer

meters, distributions supply and use of electrical energy and the later statute inter alia

provide for the establishment of an Electricity Board for the Development and

6

coordination of the generation, supply and distribution of electrical energy. Within the

parameters of the above statutes the legislature has not denied its use to a consumer.

The term 'Consumer' is defined under the Electricity Act as follows.

" Consumer" means any person or body of persons supplied or entitled to be

supplied with energy by a licensee or the Board, or whose premises are for the

time being connected for the purposes of supply of energy with the works of a

licensee or the Board"

Section 33(1) of the Electricity Act provides for supply for private purposes, and

recognizes both the owner and occupier. The said section reads thus; 33(1) A licensee

shall, upon being required to do so by the owner or occupier of any premises situated

within one hundred and fifty feet from any distributing main of the licensee in which he is

for the time being required to maintain or is maintaining a supply of energy for the

purposes of general supply to private consumers, give and continue to give a supply of

energy to those premises in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the regulations

made thereunder and he shall furnish and lay any service lines that may be necessary for

the purpose of supplying the maximum power which may be required by such owner or

occupier.

We have also perused the interim order issued by this Court. Subsequent to the issue of

the said order the Supreme Court had on 11.03.2008 granted Special Leave to Appeal and

the main basis is on the footing whether the Court of Appeal erred in refusing interim

relief on the ground that the petitioner was a mere occupier. We have had the benefit of

7

perusing the following authorities where a licensee is bound to supply electricity to a

consumer.

Aleckman Vs Kochchikade Town Council 1982 {2} SLR 487 ; The plaintiff-appellant was

resident in the Kochchikade Town Council area and the defendant Town Council supplied

electricity to the plaintiff. On 20.09.72 the defendant terminated the supply to the

plaintiff-appellant on the ground that the premises to which the electricity was supplied

was not owned by the plaintiff and that the building was not in conformity with the

Housing and Town Improvement Ordnance.

The defendant Council argued that in terms of section 218(2) the appellant could not

maintain this action as action was not filed within the six month period. The plaintiff

argued that the defendant was in fact acting under the provisions of the Electricity Act

and that there is no time limit under the Electricity Act.

Held- That the defendant was a licensee under the Electricity Act and that this action

arose out of defendant's alleged failure of duties and obligations cast upon it by the

Electricity Act and hence the time limit imposed by the Town Councils Ordinance does not

apply. At pg. 491; In Negombo Municipal Council Vs J. Fernando (1) H.N.G. Fernando, J

as he then was, stated, u But for the license granted to the Council under the Act, the

Council would have no right to supply electricity and would indeed be committing an

offence in so doing. The fact that a Municipal Council is empowered by the 1947

Ordinance to supply electricity and to enter into contracts for the purpose is of no avail,

since those powers cannot now be exercised save in conformity with the Electricity Act,

8

which is a later special enactment governing the supply of electricity. The " scheme" of

the Act, as I have held, is that a licensee is bound to supply electricity in accordance with

conditions laid down by the legislature itself or else prescribed by regulations made under

the Act; and just as the mode and condition of supply are comprehensively controlled by

the Act, so also is the relationship between the licensee and the consumer similarly

controlled."

Then in another case regarding the supply of electrical energy. Gunaratne & Another V!

CEB 1991 {1} SLR 239; Held :-Under s. 50 of the Electricity Act a licensee cannot

demand from a subsequent occupier of premises the payment of arrears due from a

previous occupier as a condition precedent for the supply of electrical energy to the new

occupier.

Corea Vs Urban Council Kotte ( 1958} 62 NLR 60 Mandamus issued on the local body and

it's Chairman directing them to give and continue to give a supply of electrical energy to

the Petitioners premises.

Courts have also gone to the extent of awarding damages, where a licensee refuse to

provide electricity.

Municipal Council of Badulla Vs Ratnayake ( 1978-79} 2 SLR 141,146-149. In his case the

defendant local authority, when sued for damages for failure to supply electricity in

breach of its statutory duty, took up the position, inter alia, that the purpose for which the

9

supply was sought was to carry on a trade, to carry on which would be unlawful in the

circumstances. At pp.146-147 it was held that " The purpose for which the supply ( of

electricity) is asked for is totally irrelevant to the consideration as to whether the

defendant ( local authority) was under a duty under (the Electricity Act, s.33{1) ) to give

the supply. The supply of electric energy is to the premises and not for a purpose."

Damages were awarded for the refusal to carry out the statutory duty of supplying

electricity to the plaintiff in this action.

This Court having considered all the facts and circumstances is firmly of the view

that the 2nd respondent is bound to supply electricity to the Petitioner so long as the

petitioner continues in occupation of the premises in dispute. Petitioner is an occupier

within the meaning of the Electricity Act, and entitled to the remedy prayed for in this

application. We allow a Writ of Mandamus in terms of sub para (a) of the prayer to the

petition.

Application allowed.

Deepali Wijesundera, J

I agree.

Kpm/-

~~er?~

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

~~ c ~ t¥Jl/~

JUDGE oFJHE COURT OF APPEAL