==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application under Article

140 of the Constitution of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for a mandate

in the nature of a Writ of Mandamus.

*******

(.A. (Writ) Application No.195/2011

1

K.D. Gunasekera

No. 80/3B, Layards Road,

Colombo 05.

PETITIONER

Vs

1. The Condominium Management

Authority

1st Floor, National Housing

Department Building,

Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mw,

Colombo 02.

2. The Colombo Municipal Council

Town Hall, Colombo 07.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

2

3. Ms. Ajantha Disanayake

No. 80/3/A, Layards Road,

Colombo 05.

4. National Building

Organization

Research

99/1, Jawatte Road, Colombo 05.

5. Inspector General of Police

Police Head Quarters, Colombo 01.

RESPONDENTS

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

: M.M.A. Gaffoor J.

: Uditha Egalahewa for the

Petitioner.

Yuresha Fernando S.C. for the

1 st, 4th and 5th Respondents.

M. Silva for the 2nd Respondent.

Chrishmal Warnasuriya with

W.Karunaratne for the 3rd

Respondent.

: 10th February, 2015

: 05th June, 2015

Oeepali Wijesundera J.

The petitioner has filed this action praying for a writ of Mandamus

against the first and second respondents to demolish the alleged illegal

construction set out in document marked P5(a) and also to enforce the

order date 14/09/2010.

The petitioner made a complaint to the first respondent The

Condominium Management Authority with regard to illegal and

unauthorized constructions done by the third respondent in the common

area units causing hardship to the petitioner and structural damage to

the condominium property. The first respondent conducted an inquiry in

term of Sec. 9A(1) of the Common Amenities Board Act and both parties

have participated at the inquiry, proceedings are marked as P4(a) and

R2. Technical officers of the first and second respondents have

submitted their reports at the inquiry which are marked as P4(b) and

P4(c) and also marked as R4. After the conclusion of the inquiry the first

respondent has come to the conclusion that both parties have carried

out unauthorized and illegal constructions and directed both parties to

demolish the said constructions within three months from the said order

P5(a).

3

The petitioner's counsel submitted the petitioner demolished the

said illegal constructions within the stipulated period of three months but

the third respondent failed to comply with the said order and continues

to enjoy the benefits of the said illegal constructions to the detriment of

the condominium property and the petitioner.

The first respondent's counsel stated that after receiving the

petitioner's complaint an inquiry was held by the first respondent with

the participation of all the respondents consequent to which the

petitioner and the third respondent was informed to demolish the illegal

constructions as per Sec. 9A(3) (1) of the Common Amenities Board Act

(as amended).

The first respondent has made a site inspection to see whether

the parties have complied with the said order and found that the third

respondent had failed to comply with the said order and as such steps

could be taken as stipulated in Sec. 9A (3) (1) of the said Act. A copy of

the inspection report dated 28/06/2011 is marked as R4. The first

respondent's counsel stated the first respondent has acted in good faith

and in accordance with the relevant provisions contained in the said Act,

and that the petitioner is not entitled to the relief prayed for in the

petition.

4

The second respondent submitted that the second respondent's

officers inspected the premises in dispute and made a report and a

sketch depicting the unauthorized construction. These documents have

been marked as 2R1 and 2R2. The second respondent has also

informed the manager of the first respondent's authority regarding the

unauthorized structures these documents are marked as 2R3, 2R4 and

2R5. He further stated that in terms of apartment ownership Act it is the

duty of the first respondent to take steps to demolish the unauthorized

construction in condominium properties.

The third respondent's counsel marking documents 3R1 to 3R9

submitted that the said condominium plan is not registered in the land

registry and a building plan has been registered in the Colombo

Municipal Council and that the second respondent has issued a

certificate of conformity to the said plan. These documents are marked

as 3R1, 3R2 and 3R3. The third respondent stated that the said

property does not fall within the Apartment Ownership Law No. 11 0/

1973 and that the first respondent does not have the power to inquire

into the complaint made by the petitioner therefore the said decision of

the first respondent is ultra vires and made without jurisdiction.

5

, ,

1 I

f

1 I ,

J I

I

I I

I

I

The counsel for the third respondent further stated that the said

alteration was done by the previous owner long before the third

respondent became the owner and that there is a valid building permit

dated 22/04/1964 issued by the second respondent for same, this is

marked as 3R5.

The third respondent further stated that the petitioner has not

come to court with clean hands and that he has not complied with the

said order of the first respondent and demolished the unauthorized

structures built by him.

The third respondent's argument that the third respondent's

property does not come within the first respondent was not taken up at

the inquiry held by the first respondent. At the inquiry the third

respondent had been represented by an attorney at law as well but no

objection has been taken.

The second respondent, the Colombo Municipal Council stated

that this building does not come under them, to demolish an

unauthorized construction which has to be done by the first

respondent's authority. According to the second respondent the third

6

! I I I 1 I , J j

respondent's building is governed by the first respondent authority, now

the third respondent can not say he does not fall within the act. This

objection was not even mentioned at the inquiry.

The third respondent argued that the petitioner has not come to

court with clean hands and that his unauthorized construction still

stands. On perusal of the documents filed this court finds otherwise 2R1

and 2R2 shows the unauthorized constructions done by both parties.

The inquiry was held and these reports were considered and parties

were asked to demolish the said unauthorized constructions within three

months. The first respondent's officer has inspected the said building

and found that the third respondent had failed to comply with the said

directive of the first respondent. The inspection report marked as R4

clearly states that the third respondent has failed to comply with the said

order.

Sec. 9A (3) (b) states that where an owner or occupier or

management corporation or other person after being present at such an

inquiry refuses to comply with any direction issued under Sec. 9A (2)

within seven days from the date of issue of such direction the authority

shall take appropriate measures to demolish such unauthorized

constructions. The first respondent under the said Act has the authority

7

to demolish the construction which the first respondent found to be

unauthorized.

For the afore stated reason I decide to allow the petitioner's

application and issue a writ of Mandamus against the first respondent as

prayed for in prayer "b" of the petition.

M.M.A. Gaffoor J.

I agree.

~~& S /

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

8

I

ft!iI,i

t,

{!! t!! ,I i