==== BLOCKS ==== 

Page 1 of 16

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an Application for Revision

in terms of Article 138 of the Constitution.

Court of Appeal Case No: Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

CPA/0042/2022 COMPLAINANT

High Court of Kalutara Vs.

Case No: HC 454/17 1. Weerasekarage Ajith Premalal

No. 70 C/4,

River Road, Gane Aramba,

Beruwala.

2. Weerasekarage Indrasena,

Gane Aramba,

Beruwala.

3. Don Seemon Koralalage Nandana

Deepthi Kumara,

Imbula Pitiya,

Ganegoda,

Elpitiya.

ACCUSED

Page 2 of 16

AND NOW BETWEEN

Weerasekarage Indrasena,

Gane Aramba,

Beruwala.

2ND ACCUSED-PETITIONER

Vs.

The Hon. Attorney General,

Attorney General’s Department,

Colombo 12.

RESPONDENT

Before : Sampath B. Abayakoon, J.

: P. Kumararatnam, J.

Counsel : Navodya Ganegoda for the 2nd Accused-Petitioner

: Madhawa Tennekoon, DSG for the Respondent

Written Submissions : 02-09-2024 (By the 2nd Accused-Petitioner)

Argued on : 02-09-2024

Decided on : 03-12-2024

Page 3 of 16

Sampath B. Abayakoon, J.

This is an application by the 2nd accused-petitioner, who is the 2nd accused in

the High Court of Kalutara Case No HC-454/17, seeking to invoke the

discretionary remedy of revision granted to this Court in terms of Article 138 of

The Constitution.

The 2nd accused-petitioner (hereinafter referred to as the petitioner) has been

indicted by the Hon. Attorney General along with two others for committing the

offence of murder, punishable in terms of section 296 read with section 32 of the

Penal Code.

At the trial, prosecution witness No-01 has given evidence before the learned

High Court Judge of Kalutara on 05-10-2021 and 13-01-2022, and has

concluded her evidence-in-chief.

The petitioner is now seeking to challenge and set aside three orders made by

the learned High Court Judge during the evidence of PW-01 on 13-01-2022, on

the basis that the said orders are contrary to law and against the concept of fair

trial towards him.

When this matter was supported for notice, having considered the facts and the

circumstances and the relevant law, this Court decided to issue notice and also

decided to call for the High Court case record for inspection by the Court. This

Court also issued a stay order ordering that any further proceedings of this

matter should be stayed until the final determination of the application.

Accordingly, upon notice, the learned Deputy Solicitor General (DSG) who

represented the respondent, namely, the Hon. Attorney General informed the

Court that the Hon. Attorney General will not object for the reliefs sought by the

petitioner being granted, as it was the view of the Hon. Attorney General that the

said orders are contrary to law and also against the concept of fair trial, and

hence, he is not in a position to support the orders pronounced by the learned

High Court Judge.

Page 4 of 16

Although it was intimated to the Court that the Hon. Attorney General will not

object to this revision application being allowed, since the questions of law that

needed to be considered are of academic interest as well, this Court allowed both

parties to file written submissions if they so wish.

Accordingly, the learned Counsel for the petitioner has filed written submissions

citing several decided cases in support of the application, while, the Hon.

Attorney General has not filed any written submissions in this regard.

Before I move on to the impugned orders pronounced by the learned High Court

Judge of Kalutara, I find it appropriate to briefly state the background of the case

that led to the impugned orders.

It appears from the proceedings that when PW-01 was called upon to give

evidence, she has apparently deviated from what she stated to the police in her

police statement. This has led to the learned prosecuting State Counsel

questioning her in that regard. When questioned, PW-01 has stated that she is

a person of ill health, she cannot remember what happened on the day of the

incident, and what she said in the Court was what she could remember.

At this stage, the learned defence Counsel who represented the petitioner and

the other accused has objected to the manner in which the learned State Counsel

attempted to extract evidence from the witness on the basis that such a cause of

action cannot be permitted under the law.

The learned prosecuting State Counsel has submitted to the Court that she is

making an application to allow the witness to refresh her memory in terms of

section 159 and section 160 of the Evidence Ordinance.

When this application was made, the learned High Court Judge has determined

that since the witness has stated in Court that she is suffering from various

illnesses and she cannot remember things, and because the witness has made a

statement to the police, he is allowing the learned prosecuting State Counsel to

verify whether the witness has made a statement in that regard to the police.

Page 5 of 16

Although I do not find any meaning in the order made by the learned High Court

Judge, it appears from the proceedings of 05-10-2021, the case has been

adjourned on the above basis.

Thereafter, PW-01 has been recalled to give further evidence on 13-01-2022.

While giving evidence for the 2nd time, she has maintained the same position she

took on the 1st day as to what she saw when she came to the scene of the

incident. This has led to the learned State Counsel who prosecuted putting

several questions to her warning that if the witness states something contrary to

the statement she made to police, which amounts to giving false evidence, she

will be prosecuted by the Hon. Attorney General in that regard, and she may

have to face a jail term and the State will take steps to initiate proceedings in

future.

The way the learned prosecuting State Counsel addressed her own witness had

led to the defence Counsel objecting for any questioning of that nature on the

basis that it amounts to intimidating the witness.

The learned prosecuting State Counsel has maintained the position that her

questioning does not amount to intimidation and the prosecution has a right to

initiate proceedings against a witness for giving false evidence.

This has led to the 1st order pronounced by the learned High Court Judge on

that day, marked as P-02, along with the petition, which appears as a part of the

certified copy of the High Court brief.

For matters of clarity, I will now reproduce the said order marked P-2, which

reads thus.

නියයෝගය.

යේ අවස්ථායේදී උගත් අධිනීතිඥ මහත්ිය ප්‍රශ්න යයාමු කරන ආකාරය සේබන්ධයයන්

විත්තිකරුවන් යවනුයවන් යෙනී සිටින උගත් නීතිඥ මහත්ිය විරුද්ධ යේ. ඇය සාක්ෂිකාරියට

බලෙෑමක්ෂ කරන ස්වභාවයයන් ප්‍රශ්න අසන බවට අධිකරණයේ අවධානයට කැඳවා ඇත. මායේ

නිරීක්ෂෂණයට අනුව සාක්ෂිකාරිය යමම නඩුවට ෙදනේ වූ සිද්ධිය සේබන්ධයයන් යොලිසියට ලබා

Page 6 of 16

දුන් කටඋත්තරයට යවනස් ආකාරයට සාක්ෂි ලබා යදින් සිටින බැවින්, එවන් සාක්ෂි දීමක්ෂ

සිදුකරනු ලැබුව යහාත් සාක්ෂිකාරිය රජයේ නිලධාරීන්ට අසතය යතාරතුරු සැෙයීම සේබන්ධයයන්

අනාගතයේදී යවනත් නඩුවකට මුහුණ ෙෑමට සිදුවිය හැකි බවට යෙන්වා දීමට කටයුතු කරයි. එය

බලෙෑමක්ෂ යලස මා යනාදකිි. මන්දයත්, රජයේ අධිනීතිඥවරිය වතතමාන සාක්ෂිකාරිය

සේබන්ධයයන් ගනු ලබන අනාගත පියවරක්ෂ සේබන්ධයයන් දැනුවත් කිරීමක්ෂ සිදුයකාට කිසියේ

කරුණු සැඟවීමක්ෂ කරන්යන් නේ ඉන් වැළකී සිටීමට අවවාදයක්ෂ යමමඟින් කිරීම ෙමණක්ෂ මා

නිරීක්ෂෂණය කරන යහයින්ද, වියශ්ෂයයන්ම යමම සාක්ෂිකාරිය දැනට මා ඉදිරියේ මා කැඳවන ලද

සාක්ෂිකරුයවක්ෂ යලස අධිකරණයේ සිටින යහයින්ද, ඇයයේ අයිතිවාසිකේ රැකීමට මා

යෙෞද්ගලිකව කටයුතු කරන යහයින්ද, එවන් බලෙෑමක්ෂ සිදුවන බව මා යනාදකිි. වියශ්ෂයයන්ම

මා සඳහන් කර සිටින්යන් රජයේ උගත් අධිනීතිඥවරිය ශබ්දය ඉහළ මට්ටමකින් අදාළ ප්‍රශ්නය

සාක්ෂිකාරිය බියවන අන්දින් ඉදිරිෙත් කරන බව යනායේ. එබැවින් අදාළ ප්‍රශ්නය වීමට

හැකියාවක්ෂ නැත. යමම සාක්ෂිකාරිය යෙර දින යමන්ම අද දිනද අධිකරණයට කියා සිටින්යන් ඇය

අෙස්මාර යරෝගයයන් යෙයළන බැවින් මතකය සේබන්ධයයන් ගැටළුවක්ෂ තියබන බවයි. කිසියේ

ආකාරයකින් ඇයට මතක්ෂ කර දීමක්ෂ සිඳු කරන්යන් නේ මතකය අළුත් කරවා යගන පිළිතුර දීමට

කටයුතු කරන බව දන්වා සිටින අතර, ඒ අමතක වීම මත කිසියේ කරුණක්ෂ යනාෙවසනුයේ නේ

එය තමායේ යරෝගී තත්වය නිසා උද්ගත වන කරුණක්ෂ විනා කිසිවක්ෂ සැඟවීමට ඇය කටයුතු

යනාකරන බවයි. යමවන් තත්වය යටයත් සාක්ෂි ආඥා ෙනයත් 159, 160 ආදී වගන්තිවල

විධිවිධාන ෙවතින බව මා යෙර අවස්ථාවකද යේ සේබන්දව නියයෝගයක්ෂ ලබා දී ඇත. ඒ පිළිබඳව

කටයුතු කිරීමට රජයේ අධිනීතිඥ මහත්ියට බාධාවක්ෂ යනාවන බව සැල කර සිටිි.

අත් / කයේ,

මහාධිකරණ විනිසුරු - කළුතර.

(At page 43 and 44 of the case brief)

When this order was pronounced, the learned Counsel who represented the

petitioner and the other accused has again taken up the position that if the

witness is permitted to read her statement made to the police in order to refresh

her memory, that will amount to a violation of the right for a fair trial guaranteed

to an accused person in terms of the Constitution of the Republic, as well as

International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) Act No. 56 of 2007.

Page 7 of 16

This has led to another order been made by the learned High Court Judge

informing the learned Counsel for petitioner that it was not the intention of the

High Court to cause prejudice towards the accused, and if the learned Counsel

feels that no fair trial has been afforded to the petitioner and the other accused,

once the evidence-in-chief is concluded, the learned Counsel is free to make an

application before a competent Court and produce an order from that competent

Court in relation to the order which allowed the learned prosecuting State

Counsel to use the statement made by PW-01 to refresh the memory of the

witness.

After the said order, the learned prosecuting State Counsel has proceeded to

show the original of the statement made by PW-01 to the police and has made

the witness to identify her signature. Thereafter, the learned prosecuting State

Counsel has asked the witness whether she stated that due to an illness, she

cannot remember things, and if her statement is reminded, she may remember

things when she was giving evidence on the previous day.

Having asked that question, the learned prosecuting State Counsel has

proceeded to read a portion of the statement made by PW-01 to the police in

which she has implicated the accused indicted before the Court.

At that stage, the learned Counsel who represented the petitioner and the other

accused has again objected to the manner in which learned prosecuting State

Counsel led evidence stating that a statement of a witness can only be used for

contradicting such evidence and not as substantive evidence before the Court.

The learned prosecuting State Counsel has disputed this position and has cited

a decided case of the Court of Appeal stating that she can still lead evidence in

the same manner.

This has led to the learned High Court Judge making a yet another order which

is the 2nd order sought to be challenged by this revision application.

Page 8 of 16

The said order marked as P-03, reads as follows.

නියයෝගය.

විත්තියේ උගත් නීතිඥ මහතා ඉදිරිෙත් කරනු ලබන වියරෝධතාවය මා හට පිළිගැනීමට හැකියාවක්ෂ

නැත. සාක්ෂි ආඥා ෙනයත් 110(3) වගන්තියේ සඳහන් වන්යන් "කිසියේ පුද්ගලයයකු යොලිසියට

කරනු ලැබූ ප්‍රකාශයක්ෂ අනුසන්දනය කිරීම හැර අන් කායත සඳහා සාක්ෂි ආඥා ෙනයත් විධි විධාන

යටයත් භාවිතා කළ හැකිය" යන්නයි. අනුසන්දනය කිරීම යනුයවන් ඉංග්‍රීසියයන් සඳහන් වන්යන්

Corroboration යන වචනයයි. එනේ යමය සරල උදාහරණයකින් යත්රුේ ගත යුතු කාරණයක්ෂ බව

යෙයනන්නට තියබ්. ඒ අනුව මා නිදශතනයකින් යමය ෙැහැදිලි කිරීමට කටයුතු කරි. A විසින්

තමා ඇසූ කරුණක්ෂ සේබන්ධයයන් කිසියේ දිනයකදී කිසියේ යොලිස් ස්ථානයකට ප්‍රකාශයක්ෂ

කරනු ලබයි. A විසින්ම ෙසු අවස්ථාවකදී අධිකරණයකදී අදාල සිදුවීම පිළිබඳ තමන්ට ඇසුණු තමා

දුටු කාරණා සේබන්ධයයන් අධිකරණයකදී සාක්ෂි යදනු ලබයි. එම අවස්ථායේදී A විසින් තමන්

අධිකරණයේදී සාක්ෂිදුන් කරුණ හා සමානවම යොලිසියටද එවන් ප්‍රකාශයක්ෂ ලබාදී තියබන බව

කියා සිටීමට ෙැිණිේලට යනාහැකිය. නැතයහාත් අදාල සාක්ෂිකරු කැඳවන ොශතවයට කියා

සිටිය යනාහැකිය. එවැනි කියා සිටීමක්ෂ අනුසන්දනයක්ෂ (Corroboration) වන බැවින් එවැන්නක්ෂ

කල යනාහැකිය. ඒ හැයරන්නට අයනකුත් ඕනෑම කාරණයක්ෂ සඳහා සාක්ෂි ආඥා ෙනත යටයත්

විධි විධාන අනුව කටයුතු කල හැකි බව 110 වගන්තියේ සඳහන් වන යහයින් අනුසන්දනය යන

කාරණය වරදවා වටහා ගැනීම නිසා යමම ප්‍රශ්නය උද්ගතව ඇති බව මා නිකත්ෂණය කරි.

යකයස් යවතත් නැවතත් මා සඳහන් කර සිටින්යන් කවර ොශතවයකට යහෝ අයුක්ෂතියක්ෂ සිදුයනාවීම

යවනුයවන් ප්‍රශ්න උත්තර ආකාරයයන් රජයේ අධිනීතිඥ යමනවියයේ සාක්ෂිකාරියයගන් ප්‍රශ්න

කිරීම වාතතා කිරීමට මා තීරණය කයේ සාමානය ආකාරයයන් මූලික සාක්ෂි සටහන් කිරීයේදී

එවැනි ක්‍රියා මාගතයක්ෂ අනුගමනය යනාකලද යමම අද දින විත්තියේ උගත් නීතිඥ මහතා දැඩි යස්

යමම සාක්ෂි යමයහයවීම සේබන්ධයයන් විරුද්ධත්වය ොන යහයින් සුදුසු අධිකරණයකදී විවාදගත

කරණය සේබන්ධයයන් සුදුසු නියයෝගයක්ෂ ලබාගැනීමටත් අදාල ඉහල අධිකරණයේදී

විනිශ්චයකාරතුමන්ලායේ අවයබෝධයට ෙහසු වන පිණිසත්ය. ඒ අනුව ප්‍රශ්න උත්තර ආකාරයයන්

ඇසීමට අවසර යදි.

අත්. කයේ. මහාධිකරණ විනිසුරු-කළුතර.

(At page 49 and 50 of the case brief)

As a result of the above order, the learned prosecuting State Counsel has

proceeded to put leading questions to the witness using her statement made to

the police.

Page 9 of 16

Even after she was questioned in such a manner, the witness has stated that

she still cannot remember whether she stated such things to police, but if she is

allowed to read the statement, she may remember.

This has made the learned High Court Judge to make the 3rd order, which has

been challenged in this application.

The said 3rd order marked as P-04 reads as follows.

“යේ අවස්ථායේදී සාක්ෂිකාරියට ඇය විසින් යොලීසියට ලබාදී තියබන කටඋත්තරය කියවා

බැලීමට අවසර යදි. ඇය ෙවසා සිටින්යන් ඇයට මතක නැති බවයි.

සාක්ෂිකාරිය විසින් යොලිස් ප්‍රකාශය කියවා බලයි.

උ: කියයේව ටික නේ හරි.

(සාක්ෂිකාරිය විනාඩි 7 ක ෙමණ කාලයක්ෂ ඇය විසින් යොලීසියට කරන ලද ප්‍රකාශය

කියවා බලන ලදී.)

අත්.කයේ.

.........................

මහාධිකරණ විනිසුරු-කළුතර.

2022.01.13”

(At page 51 of the brief)

Accordingly, witness has proceeded to give her evidence and when the learned

prosecuting State Counsel has questioned about another statement made by the

same witness to police, and wanted to use that statement as well to question the

witness, the learned Counsel for the petitioner and the other accused has again

objected on the same basis.

However, the said objection had also been overruled and the witness has been

allowed to be examined the way the learned prosecuting State Counsel wanted.

Page 10 of 16

When the PW-01’s evidence-in-chief was concluded, the learned High Court

Judge on his own motion has proposed that he can allow the defence to cross-

examine on another day in order to facilitate the initiating of a revision

application if the learned Counsel who represented petitioner and the other

accused wish to challenge the orders he made during the examination-in-chief

of the witness.

Accordingly, matter has been re-fixed for further trial, and in the meantime, the

present revision application before this Court has been preferred by the

petitioner seeking the remedies sought in the prayer of the petition.

As argued correctly by the learned Counsel for the petitioner and agreed by the

learned DSG, I find that the learned prosecuting State Counsel as well as the

learned High Court Judge were totally misdirected in relation to the applicable

principles of law governing evidence and principles of fair trial.

The Article 13(3) of the Constitution reads as follows;

13(3) Any person charged with an offence shall be entitled to be heard,

in person or by an attorney-at-law, at a fair trial by a competent Court.

It is clear from the proceedings before the High Court that the learned Counsel

who appeared for the petitioner and the other accused, has rightly objected to

the manner in which the prosecuting State Counsel was attempting to extract

evidence out of the witness in her examination-in-chief, by intimidating the

witness.

Although certain level of persuasion is permitted in order to ascertain the truth

from a reluctant witness, it is my considered view that the way the prosecuting

State Counsel had questioned the witness was way outside of the permitted

parameters in that regard.

If the prosecuting State Counsel was of the view that the witness is giving

evidence detrimental to the prosecution case, and she is willfully uttering

untruth contrary to her statement made to the police, the proper procedure

Page 11 of 16

would be to act in terms of section 154 of the Evidence Ordinance and take

necessary steps, against the said witness at the conclusion of the trial.

When the witness maintained the position that she cannot remember things the

prosecuting State Counsel has sought permission to act in terms of section 159

of the Evidence Ordinance and the application has been allowed, despite the

legally valid objections raised by the defence.

The relevant section 159(1) and (2) of the Evidence Ordinance reads as follows;

159.(1) A witness may, while under examination, refresh his memory

by referring to any writing made by himself at the time of the

transaction concerning which he is questioned or so soon afterwards

that the Court considers it likely that the transaction was at the time

fresh in his memory.

(2) the witness may also refer to any such writing made by any other

person, and read by the witness within the time aforesaid, if when he

read it he knew it to be correct.

It is the view of the Court that this is not a provision that allows a lay witness

who has made a statement to the police, read and refresh his memory while

giving evidence in a case, but a section meant to be used by official witness when

giving evidence.

This is because so, since official witness who may engage in several similar

investigations and matters in their official capacity cannot be expected to have

every official act performed by them in their memory.

The scope of section 159 of the Evidence Ordinance has been well considered in

the case of Simon Vs. State of Kerala decided on 16th February 1996 and

published in 1996 (1) KLT 406 and 1996 (1) KLJ 348, which reads thus;

“S.159 of the Evidence Act says that a witness may, while under

examination, refresh his memory by referring to any writing made by

Page 12 of 16

himself at the time of the transaction concerned which he is questioned. The

witness may also refer to any such writing made by any other person, and

read by the witness within the time of the transaction or soon afterwards

concerning the matter he is questioned. It is also necessary that the Court

must consider that it is likely that the transaction was at that time fresh in

the memory of the witness. So, the memory could be refreshed-with

reference to some contemporaneous document prepared by the witness by

himself or made by any other person which the witness had occasion to

read. Generally, this right is being exercised by expert witnesses such as a

doctor who gives evidence touching the post mortem certificate or wound

certificate prepared by him. A commissioner deputed by the court can also

refresh his memory at the time of giving evidence by referring to the report

contemporaneously prepared by him. But this special privilege given to the

witnesses under S.159 of the Evidence Act cannot be made use of by a

witness in a criminal case to refresh his memory by referring to his earlier

statement given to the police under S.161 Cr. P. C. This is because S.162 of

the Code of Criminal Procedure specifically states that the statement

recorded by the police officer under S.161 could only be used for certain

specific purposes. Proviso to S.162 Cr. P. C. reads as follows:

“Provided that when any witness is called for the prosecution in such inquiry

or trial whose statement has been reduced-into writing, any part of his

statement, if duly proved, may be used by the accused, and with the

permission of the Court, by prosecution, to contradict such witness in the

manner provided by S.145 of the Indian Evidence Act; and when any party

of such statement is so used, any part thereof may also be used in the

reexamination of such witness, but for the purpose only of explaining any

matter referred to in his cross-examination.

There are series of decisions to the effect that a statement recorded under

S.161 Cr. P. C. is not admissible in evidence. Such statement could only be

used to contradict the maker of the statement as envisaged under S.145 of

Page 13 of 16

the Evidence Act. If such a statement is put to any other use it should be

deemed to have been prohibited under S.162 Cr. P. C. So, the learned

Sessions Judge was not justified in stating that a witness is competent to

refresh his memory with the prior statement recorded under S.161 Cr. P. C.

AS the statement made under S.161 Cr. P. C. is expressly made

inadmissible, a witness cannot be allowed to refresh his memory by reading

161 statement and give evidence accordingly. That would amount to

admitting by the back door evidence which cannot be welcomed at the front

and it would definitely fly in the face of the legislative mandate given under

S.162 of the Cr. P. C.”

(It needs emphasis that the corresponding section to section 161 and 162

mentioned above is section 110 of our Code of Criminal Procedure Act No. 15 of

1979.)

In the case of Chinnammal Vs. State of Tamil Nadu and Others decided on

20-11-1996 - Citation: 1997 (1) SCC 145, it was observed by the Supreme

Court of India that;

“It is trite law that a case has to be decided on the basis of the evidence

adduced by the witnesses during the trial and any previous statements

made by any such witnesses can be used by the defence for the purpose of

only contradicting or discrediting that particular witness in the manner laid

down in section 145 of the Evidence Act. Under no circumstances can such

previous statements be treated as substantive evidence as has been treated

by the High Court in the instant case.”

It is my considered view that the final order made by the learned High Court

Judge (P-04) where it had been allowed the witness to read her statement made

to the police while on the witness box has made an already illegal procedure from

bad to worse, which was a thing unknown to the law. It is apparent that by

allowing the witness to read her own statement in this manner, the learned High

Page 14 of 16

Court Judge has disregarded the rules of evidence and the relevant provisions of

the Evidence Ordinance.

I am of the view that all the impugned orders taken cumulatively has led to a

clear violation of the principle of a fair trial towards the accused.

At this juncture, I find it appropriate to cite from the Indian Supreme Court

judgment in Varkey Joseph Vs. State of Kerala decided on 27-04-1993,

Citations: 1993 AIR 1892, 1993 SCR (3) 390, where the Indian Supreme Court

considered a similar situation and observed:

“The most startling aspect we came across from the record is that the

criminal trial was unfair to the appellant and the procedure adopted in the

trial is obviously illegal and unconstitutional. The Sessions Court in fairness

recorded the evidence in the form of questions put by the prosecutor and

defence counsel and answers given by each witness. As seen the material

part of the prosecution case to connect the appellant with the crime is from

the aforestated witnesses. The Sessions Court permitted even without

objection by the defence to put leading questions in the chief examination

itself suggesting all the answers which the prosecutor intended to get from

the witnesses to connect the appellant with the crime …

Leading question to be one which indicates to the witnesses the real or

supposed fact which the prosecutor (plaintiff) expects and desires to have

confirmed by the answer. Leading question may be used to prepare him to

give the answer to the questions about to be put to him for the purpose of

identification or to lead him to the main evidence or fact in dispute. The

attention of the witness cannot be directed in Chief examination to the

subject of the enquiry/trial. The Court may permit leading question to draw

the attention of the witness which cannot otherwise be called to the matter

under enquiry, trial or investigation. The discretion of the court must only be

controlled towards that end but a question which suggest to the witness,

the answer the prosecutor expects must not be allowed unless the witness,

Page 15 of 16

with the permission of the Court, is declared hostile and cross-examination

is directed thereafter in that behalf. Therefore, as soon as the witness has

been conducted to the material portion of his examination, it is generally the

duty of the prosecutor to ask the witness to state the facts or to give, his

own account of the matter making him to speak as to what he had seen. The

prosecutor will not be allowed to frame his questions in such a manner that

the witness by answering merely “yes” or “no” will give the evidence which

the prosecutor wishes to elicit. The witness must account for what he himself

had seen. Sections 145 and 154 of the Evidence Act is intended to provide

for cases to contradict the previous statement of the witnesses called by the

prosecution. Sections 143 and 154 provides the right to cross-examination

of the witnesses by the adverse party even by leading questions to

contradict answers given by the witnesses or to test the veracity or to drag

the truth of the statement made by him. Therein the adverse party is entitled

to put leading questions but Section 142 does not give such power to the

prosecutor to put leading questions on the material part of the evidence

which the witness intends to speak against the accused and the prosecutor

shall not be allowed to frame questions in such a manner to which the

witness by answer merely “yes” or “no’ but he shall be directed to give

evidence which he witnessed. The question shall not be put to enable the

witness to give evidence which the prosecutor wishes to elicit from the

witness nor the prosecutor shall put into witness’s mouth the words which

he hoped that the witness will utter nor in any other way suggest to him the

answer which it is desired that the witness would give. The counsel must

leave the witness to tell unvarnished tale of his own account …”

For the reasons as considered above, I am of the view that the petitioner has

established exceptional circumstances before this Court, which shocks the

conscience of the Court, where the intervention of this Court to correct the

situation that led to the deprivation of a fair trial towards the petitioner is

necessary.

Page 16 of 16

Accordingly, I set aside the orders marked P-02, P-03 and P-04 dated 13-01-

2022 made by the learned High Court Judge of Kalutara, since the relevant

orders as well as the several other orders made on that day makes the evidence

led of PW-01 of no legal value.

I order that the evidence of PW-01, led on 05-10-2021 and 13-01-2022, shall be

expunged from the case, as leaving it as it is, cannot be allowed. The learned

High Court Judge of Kalutara is directed to recommence the trial afresh, follow

the relevant principles of law and proceed therefrom.

Accordingly, this revision application is allowed.

I would also like to express my appreciation towards contribution made by the

learned Counsel, for the petitioner for filing written submissions citing several

relevant judgments in relation to the matter under consideration, which assisted

this Court in pronouncing this judgment.

The Registrar of the Court is directed to communicate this judgment, forthwith,

to the High Court of Kalutara together with the original case record of the High

Court, which was previously called by this Court, for necessary compliance.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

P. Kumararatnam, J.

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal