==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

In the matter of an Application for

Orders in the nature of Writs of

Certiorari, Prohibition and Mandamus

under Article 140 of the Constitution of

the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

Lanka.

Serendipol (Pvt) Ltd,

Pannala Road, Dandagamuwa,

Kuliyapitiya. CA (Writ) App. No. 158/2023

PETITIONER Vs.

1. Commissioner General of Labour,

Labour Secretariat, Narahenpita, Colombo 05. 2. Ms. Padma Rathnayake,

Assistant Commissioner of Labour Zonal Labour Office, Wayamba Zone, Parkrambahu Mawatha, Meegahakotuwa, Kulliyapitiya. 3. R.D. Lal Padmasiri,

Pahala Kalugamuwa, Kuliyapitiya. 4. L.A.S.P. Gunathilaka,

Hammalawa Waththa, Kuliyapitiya. 5. U.A. Priyantha Sulalith,

Kolongahamulahena,

2

Dandagamuwa West, Kuliyapitiya. 6. D.M. Wijepala,

Kaburapola, Moonamaldeniya. 7. Μ.Κ.Ν.Τ. Perera,

Kaburapola, Moonamaldeniya. 8. S.A. Thilak Sanjeewa,

Bangalawaththa, Ahugoda, Pothuhera.

9. W.N. Kumar Fernando,

Kaburapola, Moonamaldeniya. 10. S. Sathyanandan,

No. 21, Senanigama, Dandagamuwa, Kuliyapitiya. 11. A.A. Priyankara Perera,

Kaburapola, Moonamaldeniya. 12. J.K.R.S. Jayasinghe,

No. 65/1, Pinlinda Road, Urupitiya, Kuliyapitiya.

13. P.K.D. Ajith Sampath,

Ihalagama Uthura, Udubaddawa.

14. H.K. Thilakaratne,

Ihalagama Kalugamuwa, Thalahitimulla.

15. K.P.R.L. Kumara,

Wilapola, Udubaddawa.

16. R.L. Dayananda,

No. 313/15, Paragodamulla, Walakuburumulla.

17. M.M.A. Pushpakumara,

Kaburapola, Moonamaldeniya.

3

18. S.P.T.S. Somananda,

Ihala Kalugamuwa, Thalaitimulla, Kuliyapitiya.

19. J.M.N. Jayakody,

08 Post, Wendesiwaththa, Thalahitimulla, Kuliyapitiya.

20. M. Rathnasiri,

Haugammana, Thalahitimulla.

21. M.R.I. Perera,

No. 285/3, Kaburapola, Moonamaldeniya.

22. R.D.C. Nishantha,

Polgaha Agara, Wathugahamulla. Nathtandiya.

23. M.S.S.D. Perera,

Kaburapola, Moonamaldeniya.

24. W.A.W.R. Wickrama Arachchi,

No. 18/1, Kaburapola, Moonamaldeniya.

25. M.I.N.S. Priyantha,

Boruwewa, Ilukhena.

26. H.M.A. Herath,

Kaburapola, Moonamaldeniya.

27. K.M.U.S. Karunanayake,

Pahala Elathalawa, Katuwalla, Deegalla.

28. W.A. Ranasinghe,

Kumbalwela, Illukhena.

29. A.M.P. Wickramasinghe,

Ihala Kanogama, Katupotha.

30. H.A.T. Hettiarachchi,

4

Rathmale Waththa, Pahala Diyadora.

31. H.M.D.P. Dissanayake,

Ihala Elathalawa, Deegalla.

32. S.W.R.V. Kumara,

Alankare, Moragane.

33. S.Ρ.Μ.Ν.M.P. Kumara,

Wahumuwa, Kithalawa.

34. T.A.A. Fernando,

No. 77, Yaganwela, Dummalasuriya.

35. H.M.R. Pushpakumara,

Pahala Elathalawa, Katuwella.

36. Κ.Μ.Μ.Ρ. Kasthuri,

Demaladora, Katupotha.

37. M.P.S. Kumara,

Ihala Kalugamuwa, Thalahitimulla. Kuliyapitiya.

38. J.A.B.S. Kumara,

Walakumburumulla, Weralugama.

39. L.P.S. Kumara,

Walakumburumulla, Weralugama.

40. L.R.J.S. Kumara,

Pahala Elathalawa, Deegalla.

41. W.A.P.P. Kumara,

Ihala Kalugamuwa, Thalahitimulla. Kuliyapitiya.

42. K.B.R. Nayanajith,

Ihala Kalugamuwa, Thalahitimulla. Kuliyapitiya.

43. G.D.K. Godagamage,

Koskele Watta, Kabalewa, Deegalla, Kuliyapitiya.

5

RESPONDENTS

Before: Dr. D. F. H. Gunawardhana, J.

Counsel:

Geoffrey Alagaratnam, P.C., with Luwie Ganeshathasan for the Petitioner.

Mihiri de Alwis, S.S.C., for the 1st Respondent.

Chamara Wannisekara with Isuri Cooray instructed by Dineth Kaushalya for the 3rd to 11th,

15th, 16th, 17th, 19th to 26th, 31st and 32nd Respondents.

Argued on: 09.03.2026

Delivered on: 16.07.2026

6

Dr. D. F. H. Gunawardhana, J.

Judgement

Introduction

The Petitioner is a body corporate incorporated under the laws of Sri Lanka, and it claims that it is

a company partnered with more than 1,000 coconut farmers who grow coconuts within the

Coconut Triangle and process approximately 30 million coconuts annually. The Petitioner

processes such coconuts into virgin coconut oil, coconut milk, desiccated coconut, coconut chips,

and coconut water, primarily for export. Thus, it supports farmers in transitioning to regenerative

organic methods that enrich the soil, promote the system and improve yields, help sequester

atmospheric carbon, and increase resilience levels. The Petitioner further claims to be the first

company in the world to obtain a Regenerative Organic Certification for coconuts.

Further, the Petitioner asserts that, between the years 2017 and November 2021, it employed the

3rd to 43rd Respondents for the purpose of collecting, loading, and transporting coconuts from

plantations to the factory, and that their employment was not governed under the purview of the

Motor Transport Trade Wages Board.

On a complaint made by the 3rd to 43rd Respondents, the 2nd Respondent on the direction of the 1st

Respondent had taken a decision to recover the overtime payable between January 2017 to

December 2017, and January 2018 to November 2021, separately. For that purpose, the 2nd

Respondent had issued two notices marked as P1 and P2 annexed to the Petition, which the

Petitioner challenges in this Application.

7

Accordingly, the Petitioner is a body corporate incorporated under the laws of Sri Lanka and is

capable of suing and being sued in its corporate name. The 1st Respondent is the Commissioner

General of Labour, who is vested with the authority to take decisions under the Wages Boards

Ordinance and the regulations made thereunder. The 2nd Respondent is the Assistant

Commissioner of Labour, Kuliyapitiya, and the 3rd to 43rd Respondents, according to the Petitioner,

are complainants who made complaints against the Petitioner to the 2nd Respondent and are the

beneficiaries of the notices marked P1 and P2 annexed to the Petition.

After the issuance of formal notice, the Respondents filed their respective Objections and moved

for the dismissal of this Application.

This was argued before me on 09.03.2026, followed by the submission of Written Submissions;

hence, this judgement.

The Petitioner’s complaint

The Petitioner is a body corporate, and it can sue and be sued in its corporate name; further, to

establish this the Petitioner has marked P3, its Certificate of Incorporation, and the Petitioner

claims that its main business is collecting coconuts from various producers who are suppliers, and

then, in its factory, the coconuts so collected are subjected to processing into various products.

Thus, the end products are desiccated coconut and various other value-added products. The

Petitioner is engaged in the export and sale of the said value-added products overseas and is thereby

earning foreign exchange.

8

Further, the Petitioner admits that the 3rd to 43rd Respondents were employed by the Petitioner to

collect coconuts from various suppliers, and for that purpose they were employed to operate lorries

and various other modes of transportation and bring the collected coconuts back to the factory.

In addition to that, by the two letters marked P4 and P5, the Petitioner received notices from the

2nd Respondent stating that they had received complaints from the 3rd to 43rd Respondents, who

were employed under the Petitioner, regarding the Petitioner's failure to pay their overtime for the

periods from January 2017 to December 2017 and from January 2018 to November 2021. Thereby,

the 2nd Respondent called the Petitioner for information to calculate their overtime and wages.

Thereafter, in response to those two letters, the Petitioner furnished all the required information,

which is reflected in the document marked P6. In addition to that, the Petitioner has marked

documents P6(a) to P6(e) as annexures to P6, which relate to the overtime and payments of the

Respondents. However, P6(e) is a document containing an extract of the Wages Boards Ordinance

and the relevant regulations made thereunder. Thereafter, based on that, the Petitioner has taken

the position that the overtime of the 3rd to 43rd Respondents had been calculated according to the

basic wages applicable to a worker in the coconut industry and not the transport industry, though

the said Respondents may have been engaged in the transportation of coconuts and, of course, not

only transportation but also collecting and picking coconuts as well.

Since, the Petitioner's main business is not transportation, but processing coconuts through value

addition. For that purpose, the Petitioner has to collect coconuts from various estates belonging to

suppliers to obtain the coconuts necessary for its industry. Thus, the 3rd to 43rd Respondents were

employed mainly to collect and bring coconuts to the factory. Therefore, they cannot be treated as

employees engaged in the transportation industry but rather as employees in the coconut industry.

9

Further, although part of their work may involve transporting coconuts, they are not engaged solely

in transportation. Therefore, the Petitioner's position is that it has calculated the wages according

to the wages applicable to the coconut industry and, in fact, has paid amounts in excess of what

was required as overtime.

The Petitioner maintains the position that it is not in arrears of any payment and has not calculated

or paid less than what is required. However, thereafter, the Petitioner claims that it received the

two letters marked P8 and P9. Accordingly, the document marked as P8 is regarding the wages

and overtime had not been calculated correctly for the period between January 2017 and December

2017, and therefore, the calculations had been made according to the relevant regulations. Thus, if

there was any issue with regard to the same, the Petitioner was instructed to meet the Labour

Officer in Kuliyapitiya, one Mrs. Abeysinghe. In addition, similar information was given as

reflected in the document marked P9. However, that is related to the period commencing from

January 2018 to November 2021.

Further, there was subsequent correspondence between the Petitioner and the 2nd Respondent,

which is marked as P10 and P11; the document marked as P10 relates to the period from January

2017 to December 2017, while P11 relates to the period commencing from January 2018 till

November 2021.

Further, the Petitioner raised its objections by the document marked P12 annexed to the Petition

with regard to those two documents. However, the Petitioner had received notices under Section

46(3) of the Wages Boards (Amendment) Act, No. 14 of 2019, (hereinafter referred to as the “Act”),

from the 2nd Respondent, which are marked as P13 and P14.

10

Thereafter, there was further correspondence between the parties. However, after a final notice

was issued, and the 2nd Respondent instituted action in the Magistrate's Court of Kuliyapitiya,

which is reflected in the document P21, to recover the calculated amount of arrears of overtime

payments due to the 3rd to 43rd Respondents, as calculated by the 2nd Respondent and reflected in

P1 for the period between January 2017 and December 2017. Moreover, by a similar intimation,

notice was also given with regard to the period from January 2018 till November 2021 for the

overdue overtime payable by the Petitioner to the 3rd to 43rd Respondents, which is marked as P2.

Thereby, payment was demanded by those two letters, and since the Petitioner had not paid the

same subsequent to the notices marked P13 and P14, the Respondents instituted the said

application in the Magistrate's Court.

Therefore, the Petitioner challenges the documents marked P1 and P2 on the basis that the

calculations were made by the 2nd Respondent without affording the Petitioner for a hearing and

on the basis of Motor Traffic Transport Wages Board Ordinance.

Secondly, the Petitioner challenges the same on the basis that the calculations are erroneous, since

by the time the claim was made, more than four years have passed. However, the calculations were

made on the basis that the arrears could be calculated for a period of six years in terms of the

amendment introduced in 2022.

The Respondents’ Objections

It is the position of the Respondents that, since the Petitioner had failed to calculate and pay the

overtime payments arrears to the employees, namely the 3rd to 43rd Respondents to this application,

upon their complaint and based on the information provided by the Petitioner, the 2nd and 3rd

Respondents calculated the amount due and payable after deducting the amounts already paid.

11

Thereby, the balance overdue payment was then communicated to the Petitioner by the documents

marked P8 and P9; thereafter, the Petitioner failed to make the said payments. Accordingly, the

Respondents had no other option but to institute action.

Further, the Respondents rely upon five documents, namely R1 to R5, annexed to their Statement

of Objections; R1 and R2 are the two documents relied upon by the Respondents in calculating

the salaries and overtime payable according to the wages paid by the Petitioner to the Respondents.

Further, R3 reflects the minutes of the meeting conducted by the 2nd and 3rd Respondents. In

addition to that, the Respondents also rely upon two other documents marked R4 and R5, which

have been marked by the Petitioner as P11 and P13, respectively.

After filing the averments contained in the Statement of Objections, the Petitioner filed its Counter

Affidavit denying the averments contained therein and further reaffirming the averments set out in

the Petition.

Thereafter, the matter was argued before me on 09.03.2026, and the following arguments were

advanced.

Arguments

First argument advanced by Mr. Alagarathnam is that P1 and P2 are ultra vires, since the Petitioner

is only engaged in an industry related to coconut and coconut products and by-products; therefore,

the transport is merely an ancillary service, and in the course of its business, if it has employed

some employees to transport coconuts and if they work overtime, that does not fall within the

industry of the Petitioner. Therefore, basing such employees who are working under the Petitioner

12

within the Wages Board Ordinance and based on that, calculating overtime is erroneous and ultra

vires.

Secondly, Mr. Alagarathnam argued that Section 46 of the Act is not only a procedural section but

also a penal section, since it defines the offence. It is now being applied retrospectively from 2019

and goes backward for six years, which is two years more than the earlier period. Therefore, that

has to be considered when the Petition is filed.

Thirdly, Mr. Alagarathnam argued that, in terms of Section 21, only the minimum salary can be

taken into consideration when overtime is calculated. However, in this particular instance, the

Commissioner has based the calculation on the salary paid to the employees, which is much higher

than the minimum salary provided and contemplated by the Act itself. Therefore, that is also

irrational.

However, on the other hand, Ms. Mihiri De Alwis argued that the Petitioner has employed

employees in the course of its business; therefore, it falls within the purview of the Petitioner’s

business and industry, and therefore it is not ultra vires. Secondly, the salary paid by the Petitioner

has to be taken as the basis on which overtime is calculated.

Questions to be decided

In view of the facts stated in the Petition, Objections, and the arguments advanced by way of oral

submissions and written submissions, it is my view that the following questions arise for my

consideration;

(i) What type of business or trade is the Petitioner engaged in

13

(ii) Is the 2nd Respondent justified at arriving at the decision to issue notice under Section 46

to recover overtime calculated in terms of the Motor Traffic Transport Wages Board

Ordinance

(iii)Ancillary matters to be considered

The Petitioner asserts that it later became aware that the 3rd to 43rd Respondents had made

complaints to the 2nd Respondent relating to overtime payments. Thereby, pursuant to the said

complaints, the 2nd Respondent sought certain information from the Petitioner regarding the

employees, and the Petitioner furnished the same by the documents marked as P4 and P5.

By letter marked as P6, and annextures therein marked as P6(a), P6(c), P6(d), and P6(e), the

Petitioner submitted that the calculations of overtime payments based on the minimum rates of

wages prescribed under the Wages Boards Ordinance with regard to the employment. Therefore,

based on those calculations, the Petitioner claims that the 2nd Respondent has miscalculated the

wages.

However, the Petitioner states that, to its surprise and shock, the 2nd Respondent had issued two

notices in respect of overtime payments, marked P1 and P2. The first notice relates to overtime

payments for the period from January 2017 to December 2017, while the second relates to the

period from January 2018 to November 2021.

Further, the Petitioner raised its objections to the wage calculations by letter P7 addressed to the

2nd Respondent. Thereafter, the 2nd Respondent responded to the said letter P7 by two letters

marked P8 and P9.

14

The Petitioner’s trade or business

The Petitioner challenges P1 and P2 mainly on the basis that the 2nd Respondent has arrived at his

decision without considering the trade or business of the Petitioner as the basis for calculating the

wages of the 3rd to 43rd Respondents. It is argued that the 2nd Respondent based his decision on the

specific work performed by the 3rd to 43rd Respondents in the discharge of their duties as workmen.

Therefore, Mr. Alagarathnam argued that such an approach is contrary to the wording of the Act,

the intention of the legislature, and the interpretation given by the superior courts of this country.

I will now consider that aspect of the argument.

According to the Petitioner, its main business is the collection and purchase of coconuts from

various suppliers and processing them in its factory with value addition. It is stated that there are

about 1000 suppliers registered with the Petitioner. Once the harvest is collected, the coconuts are

processed into various value-added products, which are then exported and sold in the international

market. Thus, earning foreign exchange is the main business of the Petitioner. Therefore, it is

argued that transportation for the purpose of collecting coconuts is only an ancillary activity and

cannot be considered as constituting the business, or even part of the business, of the Petitioner.

Accordingly, it is contended that the decisions of the 2nd Respondent, to conclude overtime on the

basis of the regulations made under the Motor transport Wages Board Ordinance resulting in P1

and P2, are erroneous and irrational.

On a perusal of the Wages Board Ordinance, No. 27 of 1941, what is contemplated in Section 36

is the trade or business of the employer and not that of the employee.

For further clarity, I reproduce the said Section 36;

15

“36. Where a worker is employed on piece-work and a general minimum time-rate but no

general minimum piece-rate has been determined under this Ordinance, the employer of

that worker shall be deemed to pay wages at less than the minimum rate unless he shows

that the piece-rate of wages paid would yield in the circumstances of the case at least the

same remuneration as the general minimum time-rate”

This provision has been interpreted in two cases, namely Sinnathamby v. Jinasena1, decided by

Justice Basnayake, and Abeygoonesekara v. Sinnathamby2, decided by Justice Nagalingam. In

Sinnathamby v. Jinasena, it was argued that overtime should be calculated according to the work

rendered by the workman. However, the Court held thus;

“The trade contemplated in the section is the trade of the employer and not that of the

worker. In the instant case, the trade of the employer is the engineering trade, and the trade

of the worker is the motor transport trade. The obligations imposed by section 36 in respect

of an employer in the motor transport trade do not therefore fall on him. It is submitted by

learned Crown Counsel that the words" in any trade" in section 36 are wide enough to

catch up not only the employer's trade, but also the worker's trade. By themselves they are

words of wide import, but their meaning is controlled by the context in which they occur.

When the other provisions of the Ordinance are examined, it becomes apparent that when

the Ordinance uses the words ‘employer in any trade’ it contemplates the employer's trade

and not the worker's. Section 35 speaks of a worker in any trade, while section 37 speaks

of every person engaged in any trade. The latter section also makes it clear that the

obligation imposed thereby is imposed in respect of the trade of the employer and not that

1 53 NLR 139. 2 52 NLR 403.

16

of the worker. When it comes to the payment of wages the Ordinance provides that the

employer shall pay the minimum wages applicable to the worker's trade (section 21).”

In the same breath, in the case of Abeygoonesekara v. Sinnathamby, wherein Justice Nagalingam

held thus;

“‘Trade includes any industry, business, undertaking, occupation, profession or calling

carried out, performed or exercised by an employer’.

Having regard to this definition it would be clear that where an employer carries on a

particular business or undertaking, then such business or undertaking would fall within

the definition of the term - ‘trade’ as used in the Ordinance and before an employer can be

said to be in the motor transport trade he must be shown to be carrying on the business or

undertaking of a motor transport agent, that is to say, of one who holds himself out as

being prepared to transport for reward goods by means of motor vehicles. Clearly, as

indicated earlier, the appellant does not carry out, perform or exercise the business of a

transport agent. Mr. Fernando ultimately conceded that this view -may be correct.

Mr. Fernando, however, relies for his contention upon a reading of the definition from the

standpoint of the worker, which would then run as follows:

‘Trade includes any industry, business, undertaking, occupation, profession or calling

carried out, performed or exercised by a worker.’

Looking at this definition it would be manifest that any occupation or calling exercised by

a worker is in itself a trade and regarded as such for the purpose of the Ordinance. The

trade of the worker, that is to say, the occupation or calling of the worker is in no way

dependent upon and need not be related to any industry, business or undertaking in which

the employer may be engaged. The employer in point of fact need have no business

17

whatsoever, and to this extent our law departs "largely from the law of England. That the

occupation or calling exercised by the worker in this case is that of a lorry driver is

undoubted. It would therefore be correct to describe the worker as one who is engaged in

the lorry-drivers' trade, which trade is a branch of the larger trade designated the motor

transport trade. The worker whom the appellant Is alleged to have underpaid is therefore

one in the motor transport trade and he certainly is entitled under the notification to be

paid the minimum wage, though the appellant may not be in the motor trade himself.

The germ of the idea behind our definition of " trade" is to be found in the case of Skinner

v. Jack Breach1[ (1927) 2 K. B. 220] where the contention was put forward that both the

worker and the employer must be engaged in the same business before that business could

be regarded as a trade within the meaning of the Trade Boards Act. This contention was

rejected in that case and the Judges took the view that it was immaterial that the employer

was engaged in a trade different from that he employs the worker to carry on. Our

Legislature adopted this view and gave it legal recognition by enacting the definition of

the term ‘trade’ so as to include the occupation or calling of a worker, irrespective of what

the trade of the employer may be. In other words, the definition catches up both classes of

cases (1) where the employer and the worker are engaged in the same trade and (2) where

the employer and the worker may be engaged in two different trades.”

Accordingly, it is my view that the main business of the Petitioner is the collection, processing,

and production of coconut into value-added products, and not transportation. If the Petitioner were

engaged in the transportation business and rendered transportation services to third parties, it could

then be said that the Petitioner is engaged in the business of transportation. However, that is not

18

the position in the present case. Therefore, the decision taken on the basis of the Motor Wages

Board Ordinance will apply to the workmen (3rd to 43rd Respondents) is irrational and erroneous.

Miscalculation of overtime

In this case, it is argued for and on behalf of the Petitioner that the 2nd Respondent has

miscalculated the overtime based on actual wages paid. It is argued that the overtime under the

Motor Traffic Transport Wages Board, if at all to be settled in favour of the 3rd to 43rd Respondents,

cannot be calculated on actual wages; it has to be based on minimum wages. In support of this

argument, the Petitioner relies upon the document marked as P6(e) annexed to the Petition, which

is the Order of the Wages Board for the Motor Transport Trade as published in the Sri Lanka

Labour Gazette No. 52 of 2001.

For further clarity, the relevant section of P6(e) is reproduced below which reads thus;

“OVERTIME RATE:

1. In respect of each hour in excess of the normal working day the minimum overtime rate

shall be one and half times the minimum hourly rate ascertained by dividing minimum

monthly rate by 200.”

Accordingly, it is my view that the said argument is tenable; as such, the overtime calculated by

the 2nd Respondent based on the actual wages under the Motor Traffic Transport Wages Board is

erroneous. Therefore, what is reflected in P1 and P2 as overdue overtime payment recoverable

from the Petitioner, payable to the 3rd to 43rd Respondents, are erroneously calculated. Thus, it is

irrational and have to be quashed.

19

Prescription

The next argument is on the prescription of the determination reflected in P1 and P2.

It is further contended on behalf of the Petitioner that Section 19(a) does not apply retrospectively,

but only prospectively. Therefore, the calculation from 2017 is prescribed and thus cannot be

sustained.

On the other hand, it was argued for and on behalf of the Respondents that the prescriptive period

is extended up to six years; therefore, it is covered up to 2017 from the date of the calculation. As

such, Section 19(a) introduced in 2022 is applicable.

It is argued that four years has to be calculated backwards from the date of the determination in

terms of Section 19(a). However, Section 19(a) has been amended in 2019; according to which,

the prescriptive period is now six years.

However, it is argued on behalf of the Petitioner countering the six-year period that Amending Act

was brought in 1990, amending Section 19 and introduced Section 19(a), and it applies

prospectively and not retrospectively. Even assuming that it accepts prospectively, only the 2017

calculation is prescribed because it is outside the four years.

Nevertheless, the argument based on that is unnecessary to be considered since I have already

decided to issue writs quashing the decisions reflected in P1 and P2, based on the other two

grounds. Accordingly, the third matter is not necessary to be considered.

20

Conclusion

For the reasons adumbrated above, Writ of Certiorari is issued as prayed for in prayer (b) of the

Petition, without costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL