==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA Case No. CA 551/96 DC Horana Case No. : 3666 P

Kevitiyagala Vitanage Maheepala, Muruddeniya, Anguruwatota.

Plaintiff-Appellants Vs. 1. Kevitiyagala Vitanage Pedrick Singho, Govinna, Katugodella, Retiyala. 2. Kevitiyagala Vitanage Wasanahamy, Kolaniya, Hadigalla. 3. Kevitiyagala Vitanage Theminona, Kolaniya, Hedigalla. 4. Owitigalage Siman Perera, Kananwila, Anguruwathota. 5. Owitigalage Abeydasa Perera, Kananwila, Anguruwathota. 6. Owitigalage Abeyrathna Perera, Kananwila, Anguruwathota. 7. Owitigalage Dharmadasa, Muruddeniya, Anguruwathota.

Defendant -Respondents

CA 551/96(F)

Before

Counsel

Decided on

K.T. Chitrasiri, J.

District Court-HORANA-3666/P

K.T. Chitrasiri, J.

Ms. Manoja Gunawardana for the 7th Defendant-

Respondent

7th Defendant Respondent is present in Court. Plaintiff Appellant and the 1st_6th Defendant

Respondents are absent and unrepresented.

28.04.2014

The Registrar of this court has sent notices to the parties and

to their registered attorneys under registered cover directing

them to be present in this court today. Notice sent to the 2nd

Defendant-Respondent has been returned with the endorsement that

the given address is insufficient. Notice sent to the 3rd

Defendant-Respondent also has been returned with the same

endorsement. Notice sent to the other parties including the

appellant has not been returned.

At this stage, counsel for the 7th Defendant-Respondent informs

court that the appellant has not paid the brief fees. Having

1

perused the docket it is seen that notices have been sent under

registered cover by the Registrar, to the parties on 12.02.2009

directing them to pay brief fees.

Thereafter another notice had been sent to the parties on

07.10.2010 informing them that the Court is compelled to act

under rule 13 (b) of the Supreme Court rules if they do not pay

the brief fees. Once again on 28.03.2014 notices have been sent

to the parties, directing them to be present in this Court

today. Despite all those notices, no party has paid the brief

fees. Accordingly, acting in terms of Rule 13(b) of the Supreme

Court rules, this appeal is rejected.

Appeal is rejected.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

LA/-

2