==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of a petition of appeal in

terms of section 331 (1) of the Code of

Criminal Procedure Act No 15 of 1979

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

Lanka.

High Court IKaluthara) Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri

Case No: H.C. 395/04 Lanka.

C.A. Case No: 297/12 Complainant

1. Kolamba Arachchige Sarath

2. Kolamba Arachchige Siripala

Accused

AND NOW

1. Kolamba Arachchige Sarath

2. Kolamba Arachchige Siripala

Kithulgalvila, Mahagama

1

!,

Accused Appellants

f

Vs. fIi Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri I 1I1 Lanka. I

Respondent

I BEFORE H.N.J. PERERA, J III

P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKE, J I

COUNSEL Charith Galhena for the Accused

Appellant.

Shanil Kularatne SSC for the I

ti

Respondent

f

ARGUED ON 14.11.2014 fi t t

DECIDED ON 12.03.2015

J

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake, J

2

On 1st of May in the year 2000, 19 year old Nisansala went to bed with her

husband Sunil Kumara at about 8.30 in the night. Nisansala was an employee

at Body Line Garments and her husband was an employee of Damro. They

were suddenly woken up by a sound at midnight. When they came to open the

door thinking that was the mother of Sunil Kumara who was residing close by,

they have noted that the front door was opened. Then at once six persons,

three from the front door and three from the back door entered in to the living

room of their small house. Three of them dragged Nisansala to the bed room

which was partitioned by polythene sheets while the other three were holding

the husband in the living room. One of the persons entered in to the house

was armed with a sword and others with knives. All of them were carrying

torches.

The 1st and the 2nd Accused Appellants who were among the three persons

who had taken Nisansala in to the bed room and raped her. They threatened

her that she and her husband would be killed. Nisansala and her husband

identified the 1st and the 2nd Accused Appellants when they removed the

clothes which they have used to cover their faces. They robbed her gold chain

and the pendant and it was revealed that they have also taken cash worth Rs:

2500/= collected in a till.

3

II

1

,I

,I I II

fIII

tf

Kolamba Arachchige Sarath and Kolamba Arachchige Siripala respectively the

1st and 2nd Accused Appellants have been indicted on 6 counts punishable

under the Penal Code. The charges brought against were being members of an

unlawful assembly, punishable under Sec. 140, committing unlawful assembly

with common intension to commit robbery punishable under Sec. 443 read

with Sec. 146, committing robbery while being members of unlawful assembly

punishable under Sec. 380 read with Sec. 146, committing gang rape

punishable under Sec. 364(2), committing trespass by entering in to Nisansal's

house with common intention for committing an offence, punishable under

Sec. 443 read with Sec.32, committing robbery of jewellery worth Rs: 12,800/=

and cash worth Rs: 2500/= punishable under Sec. 380 read with Sec.32, of the

Penal Code.

After trial they have been convicted for all charges level against them and have

been sentenced in the following manner.

The 1st and the 2nd Accused Appellants were sentenced for six months

imprisonment for the 1st count. They were sentenced for five years rigorous

imprisonment for the 2nd count. Ten years rigorous imprisonment and a fine of

Rs: 10,000/= carrying a default sentence of three months simple

imprisonment, for the 3rd count. Twenty years rigorous imprisonment and fine

of Rs: 20,000/= carrying a default sentence of three months simple

4

! I II I

J&l,

~ I f ! f i ! lf I)

1

II,

i ! I

imprisonment and also a payment of compensation Rs: 400,000/= by each to

the victim for the 4th and 5th counts. The trial judge has stated that no

sentences would be passed for the 6th and 7th counts as they are alterative

charges. The judge has further directed all the imprisonment sentences to be

effected consecutively. Being dissatisfied with the convictions and the

sentences the 1st and 2nd Accused Appellants have preferred this appeal.

The main contention of the counsel for the Accused Appellant was that there

was a great doubt about the identification of offenders. Nisansala has come to

reside in that place 8 months prior to the incident after her marriage. She had

seen the Accused Appellants prior to the incident as they were the residents of

that area, but she didn't know them by their names.

Nisansala's husband is a person from the same area and also a relative of the

Accused Appellants and both the Accused Appellants were known to him from

their childhood. The counsel for the Accused Appellants contended, if

Nisansala and her husband identified the Accused Appellants at the time of the

incident, names of the Accused Appellants would have been mentioned in the

1st complaint made to the police which has not been done. Even though

Nisansala and her husband have identified the Accused Appellants at the

identification parade there are contradictions inter say, in evidence and in the

statements made at the identification parade, submitted the counsel.

5

It I! II1I!

~ I

The learned trial judge has analyzed the evidence of Nisansala and her

husband together with the evidence of the Judicial Medical Officer and has

come to the conclusion that there is no doubt that the incident of rape had

taken place. He has rejected the allegation made on behalf of the Accused

Appellants that they have been shown to the witnesses at the police station

prior to the identification parade.

As there were no circumstantial evidence against the Accused Appellants the

only evidence available was the direct evidence of Nisansala and her husband.

The validity of the evidence of them entirely defends on the accuracy of the

identification of offenders at the time of the incident. When considering the

evidence of Nisansala and her husband as a whole it is obvious that all persons

entered in to the house were covering their faces at the beginning. According

to Nisansala she could identify the Accused Appellants when the face coverings

come off while she was being raped.

Incident of rape had taken place inside the bed room which was partitioned

with polythene sheets. At that time Nisansala's husband was being held by

some of the offenders in the living room.

It is not clearly mentioned the exact moment the Accused Appellants faces

were seen by Nisansala's husband. He has admitted that he had known the

Accused Appellants from their childhood, as they were residing about 400m

6

It t II

II

\

f!

j i

I

!

1 I j

\ I I I

away from their house. Furthermore he has admitted he did not mention their

names in the complaint because he could not properly identify them.

Despite the fact that the Accused Appellants had alledgely been shown to the

witnesses prior to the identification parade, identification of them in the

parade couldn't be considered as an act of so much validity, because witness

should have been aware that two neighbors had been arrested in this

connection. If the police were able to take two persons into custody out of the

six, the police could have been able to elicit several more matters with regard

to the incident through these two persons such as the others involved, jewelry

and money robbed and weapons and other materials used. However, the

police have not discovered any of the above. It is a golden thread spreading

throughout the criminal law that a criminal charge has to be proved beyond

reasonable doubt. If a reason can be pointed out that leads to doubt, it

denotes whether the occurrence or existence of the incident has been proved

beyond reasonable doubt.

In the instant case each and every point discussed above could be pointed to

create doubt about the fact that whether the two persons arrested had

actually committed the offence. Therefore, I am of the view that the Accused

Appellants are entitled to receive the said benefit of doubt. As such, it appears

7

,II I

f

II I

~ IIi t

I I I

that the learned trial judge has failed to be mindful of the above state of affairs

and has acted on emotions as the crime that had taken place was one

condemned ethically by the society. Similarly, the civilized society accepts that

one innocent person being convicted is worse than a thousand culprits being

acquitted. Therefore, this court decides to set aside the conviction and the

sentences imposed and acquit the Accused Appellants.

Appeal Allowed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

H.N.J. PERERA J

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

8

I ! ! II

f

f !

) I ! r l I

1

\

~

~ f I