==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A.No.1035/98 (F) D.C.Kurunegala Case No.6935/T

N.P. Jayakodi Wewaliyadda Watta.

1st Respondent-Appellant And others Vs. P. Fernando And others

Respondents

C.A.No.1035/98(F)

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED AND DECIDED ON

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J

D.C.Kurunegala Case No.6935/T

K.T.CHITRASIRI, J P.R.WALGAMA, J

Appellant is absent and unrepresented

P.M.Thilakarathne for the 1 st & 2nd

Respondents

09.02.2015

Appellant is absent and unrepresented. When this matter was

mentioned on the last date namely on 14.11.2014 too, the appellant was

absent and unrepresented. Accordingly, the Registrar had been directed to

issue notices on the appellant and to his registered Attorney informing them

that this matter is to be taken up for argument today. A motion also had been

filed by the Counsel for the 1st Respondent-Appellant namely J.Jayasooriya

stating that he is not appearing for the appellant. He has informed his

decision to the appellant and to her registered Attorney as well. Copies of

those two letters are filed into the docket with the said motion dated

25.11.2014. Therefore, this matter is taken up for argument in the absence of

the appellant. Court also notes that a number of notices had been sent

previously to the appellant by this Court on several occasions.

1

I• j. I

,

·

l

~f

I I!

, ! ; !

~ I l IJ

i i I

I

•

•

Learned Counsel for the respondents submit that the appellant should

have fJ1eda leave to appeal application rather than a final appeal in view of

Section 754(2) of the Civil Procedure Code since the order that is being

challenged is only an interlocutory order and not a final jUdgment.

Accordingly, he moves that this appeal be dismissed for the procedural

irregularities.

Having perused the order dated 26.10.1998, it is observed that it is an

order made in respect of an application to have two items included into the

inventory in the testamentary proceedings. Hence, it is clear that the

impugned decision is not a judgment but it is an order referred to in Section

754(5) of the Civil Procedure Code. In such a situation the appellant should

have filed a leave to appeal application in terms of Section 754(2) of the Civil

Procedure Code. Therefore, this Court is inclined to accept the argument of

the learned Counsel for the respondents. For the aforesaid reasons Court

decides that the failure to follow the procedure referred to in the Civil

Procedure Code when filing this appeal is a fatal irregularity.

For the aforesaid reasons this appeal is dismissed without costs.

Appeal dismissed.

I·

·.. JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.R. WALGAMA,J.

I agree

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

2