==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

J.M. Anura,

Accused-Appellant

Vs.

The Attorney General

Respondent

C.A.57/2011

H.C. Puttalam Case No: 66/2004

Before Sisira J. de Abrew,J. &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

Counsel Neranjan Jayasinghe for the Accused-Appellant.

Dappula de Livra DSG. for the A. G.

Argued &

Decided on 31.01.2014

Sisira J. de Abrew,J.(Acting PICA)

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases. The accused-~ appellant in this case was charged of the murder of a man named Sarath

1

Weerasinghe and of the murder of a man named Kurunapedilage Alwis.

After trial the learned trial Judge acquitted the accused-appellant of the

charge of murder relating to Sarath Weerasinghe but convicted of the

murder of Karunapedilage Alwis. The accused-appellant was sentenced to

death. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and the sentence he has

appealed to this Court. The facts of this case may be briefly summerized as

follows:

Sarath Weerasinghe was the son of Karunapedilage Alwis who

was the 2nd deceased person in this case. Sarath Weerasinghe was having a

love affair with the daughter of the accused-appellant. There is evidence

that Sarath Weerasinghe and the daughter of the accused-appellant, as a

result of the love affair, engaged in sexual intercourse. But Sarath

Weerasinghe had refused to marry the daughter of the accused-appellant.

Accused-appellant lodged a complaint in the Police Station over the refusal

to marry his daughter by Sarath Weerasinghe. On the day of the incident

there was an inquiry at the Police Station on the said complaint. At the

conclusion of the inquiry, Police officer informed the parties to seek remedy

by way of civil action in the District Court. Thereafter the accused party left

the Police Station and came to the village. It is only after they left the Police

Station, the deceased party came to the village. In the village the accused-

appellant and some crowd chased after Sarath Weerasinghe. The crowd and

the accused chased after Sarath Werasignhe for about half a mile. Chamila

Nishanthi who was a relation (daughter-in-law of the 2nd deceased) of the

deceased party was watching the incident. After the accused-appellant and

2

l

ft

the crowd chased after the deceased person Sarath Weerasinghe, Chamila

Nishanthi heard cries of Sarath Werasinghe to the effect he was being killed.

On hearing the said cries, the 2nd deceased person Karuna Pedilage Alwis

and Chamila Nishanthi started proceeding towards the direction where the

cries emanated. At this time the accused-appellant came and addressed the

2nd deceased person in the following language. 'I will kill you too '. The

accused-appellant thereafter stabbed the deceased person. It has to be

stressed here that the deceased person Karunapedilage Alwis did not, at this

time, do anything to the accused-appellant. The only point raised by

learned counsel appearing for the accused-appellant was that the accused-

appellant should have been convicted of the offence of culpable homicide not

amounting to murder on the basis of grave and sudden provocation. He

also tried to advance an argument that he should have been convicted of the

offence of culpable homicide not amounting to murder on the basis of

cumulative provocation. The first exception to Section 294 of the penal

Code reads as follows:

'Culpable homicide is not murder if the offender whilst deprived of the

power of self-control by grave and sudden provocation, causes the death of

the person who gave the provocation or causes the death of any other

person by mistake or accident'. Learned counsel for the accused-appellant

contends that the accused-appellant was suffering from provocation as a

result of the refusal by Sarath Weerasinghe to marry his daughter although

they were having a love affair and had had sexual intercourse. He further

tried to contend that since the accused-appellant was not successful at the

3

mquiry conducted by Police, he was suffering from provocation. The

accused-appellant has not taken such a position. It may be that he was

suffering from a ruffled mind. It may be that he was angry over the entire

incident between Sarath Weerasinghe and his daughter. When the mind of

a person is ruffled and a problem caused by an individual is simmering,

such a person can easily be provoked and loose his power of self-control, by

an act of the individual which may, sometimes, not provoke a normal man.

In such a situation if he causes the death of the said individual especially

when he was suffering from the loss of his power of self-control, he is

entitled to claim the benefit of the plea of grave and sudden provocation.

But for him to get the benefit of the plea of grave and sudden provocation,

the other individual namely the deceased person must do some kind of act

towards him. If the deceased person did not do any act, it cannot be said

that the accused-appellant got provoked and lost his power of self-control

although he was having a ruffled mind. If the accused person who was

having a ruffled mind as a result of the simmering dispute between him and

the deceased person, causes the death of the deceased person without any

act being done towards him by the deceased person, then what was boiling

in his mind can be considered as the motive for the killing. Therefore for

him to get the benefit of the plea of grave and sudden provocation there

must be some act done towards him by the deceased person. If there is such

evidence he can claim the plea of cumulative provocation. In the case of E.

Samithambi Vs. The Queen 75 NLR 49, the accused-appellant was charged

with the murder of his wife. On the day of the incident, the deceased

woman abused the accused-appellant who was having a ruffled mind over

4

1 1 1 his wife's affair with her brother-in-law. Little later he s~Ct'obed her. Court

of criminal appeal held that the accused-appellant was enti'c:ed to t":1e :Jlea of

grave and sudden provocation although there was a~l. inte:rval of time

between the giving of the provocation &nd the time of killing. It is th::rcfore

seen in the said case that the deceased woman had done some act to\vards

the accused. But in the present case, \vhen the deuasccl KafuLapedilage

Alwis and Chamila Nishanthi were going tovlards the c.ir:::ction. f:,:\)~n 'Nhere

the cries of Sarath Weerasinghe emanated" the accused-appellant can:.e and

stabbed said Alwis. There is nothing to suggest th:3..t !Uwis did 2.~iy c:_ct

towards the accused-appellant. Learned cour:.scl ior th,:,:sccused s..p·,:'l,:-;llant

tried to contend what happened at the Police Station f-l28 g:..v:;::~ rise: "lC the

plea of grave and sudden provocatlGn. At the Pc"i.ice STc:j':'ll it W:?lS o.:-tly En

inquiry by a peace officer who was trying to settle the dispute betw::e!!. the

two parties. Therefore refusal by the deceased party :0 marry the da.:..ghter

of the accused-appellant at the Police station canno: be cm;.sidercd as an act

done by them to get the benefit of the grave 2:-ld ~":.lCc,,:;n provDcscicn.

Therefore the decision in Samithambi's case has no ao::)1iC:2-LOn to t'nir; case . .L _

Considering all these matters we hold t~1.e view 'chat th:: s~cc:.~sed-3.PI::-ellant

is not entitled to claim the benefit of cumulative provoca~iDn or or- gr2,lfe an.Q

sudden provocation. It appears that refusai to rI:2-f':-Y his dS:t..ig!:'iCe:: by

Sarath Weerasinghe has worked as the motive ~-o: tt:e kL~Lrlg. Unce:Y t~1.ese

circumstances, we hold that the accused-·appellant 1.3 r-~CL eLtiLeC ":C cla~!I!

the benefit of cumulative provocation 2.nel grave ane sucde:n m·ovo.:s.ticn .

We have considered the evidence led at the .. , , LrIal anc:.

that we should not interfere with the judgmeD.t vi til.::: 1,:::E._~nej "ric,.:

5

For the above reasons, we affirm the conviction and the death sentence and

dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

Acting President of the Court of Appeal

P.W.D.C Jayathilake,J.

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Jmrj-

6

\