==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

M. Ajith Kumara alias Ajith

ACCUSED-APPELLANT

C.A. No. 208/2012

H.C. Kalutara 301/2003

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

Sunil Rajapaksa J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department

Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDNET

Tenny Fernando for the Accused-Appellant

Ayesha Jinasena D.S.G., for the Complainant-Respondent

31.07.2014 & 06.08.2014

26.09.2014

1

2

GOONERATNE J.

This was a case of triple murder, involving members of one family.

Unfortunate incident occurred on 06.07.1998. Victims are the wife, father and

mother of the Accused-Appellant. Prosecution depends on the evidence of a

small child who was only about 5/6 years old at the time of the incident who

saw his O'Nn mother, grand-father and grand-mother being murdered by his

own father, an estate labourer. When this child gave evidence in the High

Court he was about 15 years old. One of the main points urged, against the

child witness (as described by the defence) is the delay of recording the

statement of this witness nearlv 2 Y2 vears after the incident. The other matter

being, the question whether a deposition of a witness, in the non-summary

inquiry could be admitted under Section 33 of the Evidence Ordinance.

The place of incident is known as 'Thiriwanakettiya' in a estate in the

Matugama electorate. The deceased part\' and the Accused-Appellant were

staying in the SC1me estate quarters, where the incident took place.

Prosecution versi';:','" in brief i~ that the time of incident was about 12.00

midnight, all three victims were at home. At that time the Accused-Appellant

3

was given his dinner when he came home, by his deceased wife but he refused

to eat. Evidence reveal that the Accused-Appellant and his father had an

altercation over refusal to eat by the Accused. It is said that the father of the

Accused had also hit the Accused. When the Accused refused to eat his wife

also reprimanded him. Thereafter the father of the deceased went out of the

house and was seated on the steps. One and a half hours later witness heard a

noise, and saw his grand-father and father of the Accused Iy;ng on the ground,

being attacked by a club (~®J@ G)5»). 'Nitness also testified that after about 2/3

minutes Of hearing the noise the Accused stabbed both his wife and mother.

Evidence a!so reve~! that the ,~,ccused had on earlier occa~jons had disputes

with this decea;ed wife after consuming liquor. PI & P2 have been produced

as weapons used fo~' committing the act of murder. Witness had testified that

there had been a ~<ovil light and an oil lamp heing lit inside the house at the

time of th,:, incidert) l:ut the oil lamp !ater fell on the ground.

!r view of the above infirmities pointed out by th~ defence it would

be relevant to con':.ider initially thE re!evant points suggested and raised in the

cross-exC1llinat1on af the child witness.

4

(a) Delay of over 2 years of making a statement to the police (witness admit)

(b) Went to the police with his aunty (sister of mother) but later witness

admitted that he was accompanied to the police by his aunty and uncle

(c) Positior of Lmcle 2nd aunty coaching the witn,~ss to give a statement in a

particular way W::IS denied by the witness.

C : ~ &'@) ~es5e1'l~ @® ~Cl)C) Qtn)CSl fm6es55l ro@)

C : 13).~ e5)l;

(d) Taken to poPce by uncle and auntv but the vllitness unhappy about it.

(e) Uncle c211ed th2 ,,vitness stating that he has to attend court. Witness had

been staying in unc!e's house.

(f) Positi:-,n of quarters and Kovil/Road etc.

(g) Vi contradic:tbn l1ertaining to the fact that the' witness slept on the mat

(h) Cannot rememl;er the things the father brought with him, two coconuts,

and k2)~ippu bottle. (omission suggested - 128)

(i) About ~'1e f2the( being under the influence of liquor

(j) About oil lamp ... emission suggested

(k) Dispute with 11I8ther admitted. Dispute with grand-mother grandmother

was a lie (p§'". 1~9).

5

During the course of the argument our attention was drawn to folios

141, 144, 146, 149 & 150 of the brief/record. It would be relevant to refer to

same since it is a fact recorded during the course of cross-examination of the

child witness. The trial Judge observes (141) that the witness find it difficult to

answer questions in the Sinha~a language. J.S.C had been informed to make

arrangE~ments to send a Sinha la/Tamil Translator. Trial Judge had omitted to

read that portion of the record. Tria! Jude decided to commence trial De Nova

(141). Call for a trans'ator from JSC (143) . Order at (144) for trial De Nova. At

(149) attention of :ollrt drawn to the fact by the defence counsel that the

Accused party is vv;ning to continue with th~ trial from the point it was

stopped, and 3do~t the proceedings of this ca se} held by the predecessor of

the trial Jddge. Bo~h pc,~ties agree to adopt proceedings and commence from

the point the trial stopped (15C} .

The child witness being ofTllmil origin would have to undergo certain

difficulties to llndr:rs"and the questions put by counsel, apart from the mental

trauma he would have faced havi'1g had to witness a triple brutal murder. Trial

judges had '10 douht Made every effort to get at the truth irrespective of the

apparent diffic'ltie'l the prosecution \'I.'a5 confronted to elicit correct answers

from a very young p0.fSon. The5e are matters to be understood and explained

t

ft[

t

t

!!

6

by the parties concerned. The Judgment of the learned trial Judge provides

reasons for the delays, and infirmities of the prosecution case. The defence

having consented and agreed to proceed with the trial from the point trial

Judges had been of two minds as to whether to proceed all over again or

conclude the case from the point it had stopped, may not attract a complaint

of fair t,"ial. Nev,~:t1eless the;~ the defence having consented to proceed,

continued the cross-e>:aminatioi1, subject to the df~lay of recording the victim's

statement. Th:s court however would have to comment on above at a later

stage of this judgment In ord ~r to bring the child witr.ess's case to its

conclusic,n. wh(lt "emained is that, according to the testimony of the child, was

that his father after the i'1cident carried the chlld to the uncle's house, and left

him. He also t2stifies that the victim, accused and himself had blood all over

their clothes aId t:cdies at that roint of tim\~. Next item of evidence which

leads to ;motrer J))int is thi: child standing "ear the door of her aunty

Pushparani's house ci 1::1 telling Pushp3rcmi about the altercation at home.

There V/,'i:' nlL ch arguments advance::! from both sides as regards the

depositio,~ of th? (;~',)V2 named PUsh::>3,'an:. This witne:;s had been present on

14 occ3sior'15 befDrf: ~he trial in I-iigh (ourt, hut heil'=' to leave '~he Island at a

! I t I i I j j I l ! I I I I I \

I J

7

certain point may be to secure employment. That led the prosecutor to apply

to court and seek permission to admit the deposition of witness Pushparani

who was prosecution witness No. (1) as described on the back of the

indictment. (vide folio 311). The proceedings at folio 312 indicates that the

defence couns'2~ admit as a fact in term of Section 420 of the Code that

witness Pushp3r(~ni was not in the Island. Tt,e proceedings at 311/312 is

relevant since the trial Judge allowed the apprication to adm~t the deposition

marked X. Under Section 33 of the Evidence Ordinance and trial Judge

observes that on opportunity is pro;Jided in the non-summary proceedings to

cross-exalrine the \fI.'itness. Thert~ are three points to be noted from the

depos.ition.

(1) That child 'Nitnes~ Rcmjith tapped on her bmther's door at night. He was

clad in blaoc! st;]ined clothes.

(2) Having learnt 0f thE- incident fr'Jm the child witness wen~ to parent's house

and proceeded to inform field officer of the estate.

(3) In the earlv hour~ of the dav accompanied by a group of persons, gave the

first inf::Hmotlo;" "'0 the police.

I

Ji

fi !

iI r&i,iiI-

IIfi,I I

JI II

I

I!

i I1.'

8

Section 33 of the Evidence Ordinance reads thus:

Evidence given by a witness in a judicial proceedings, or before any person authorized

by law to take it, is relevant, for the purpose of proving, in a subsequent judicial

proceeding, or in a later stage of the same judicial proceeding, the truth of the facts

which it states, when the witness is dead or cannot be found, or is incapable of giving

evidence or is kept out of the way by the adverse party, or if his presence cannot be

obtained without an amount of delay or expense wnich, under the circumstances of the

case, the court considers unreasonable:

Provided -

(a) That the proceeding was between the same parties or their representative in

interest;

(b) That the adverse party in the first proceeding had the right and opportunity to

(c) That the questions in issue were substantially the same in the first as in the

second proceeding.

Explanation - A criminal trial or inquiry shall be deemed to be a proceeding between

the prosecutor and the accused within the meaning of this section

The said section is not at all confusing or difficult to be understood.

I had the opportunity to examine the submissions of both sides.

agree that evidence led under Section 33 of the Evidence Ordinance is an

exception .to the hearsay rule and substantive evidence. Vide Leelawathi

Manike Pcdleth~:nn~ '3nd Another Vs. A.G. CA. 178/1999 decided on 13.6.2008;

pg. 488 vol. (1; ERSR Coomaraswamy on Evidence.

I

I I I I I I I I I

J

1

\ I

j I !

9

I need not elaborate on the requirements contained in the proviso to

the said section, (a) (b) & (c) of the proviso has been, no doubt considered by

the learned High Court Judge. What is relevant and important is that the

adverse party in the first proceedings need to have had the right and or

opportunity to cross-examine. If that right and or opportunity was denied by

the legislature in the statute it!;elf, there cannot be an application as per

Sectior 33, I have to observe that t~1e trial Judge has given his mind to all

above and admittEd deposition X. As obSentEd by learned Deputy Solicitor

General the defen::e did not ()b~ect to add the Registrar of the court as a

witness, to rroducE' and mark deposition X.

I do pot intend to make th is judgment an academic exercise, as I

have careful!y str.Jdied the submissions of both counsel, 2nd I am in agreement

with the submic::~;cms r::f learned Deputy S:ll1citor General on this issue.

However' wish to note t'1e follcwing case law on the point.

Subrc,"TI(]ni,)71 Vs. /nspector~)f Po/ice, Kankesonthura; - 71 NLR

204/205·· This ca::~ de3 1s with the right of the Accused to be represented by

counsel at a non"::;lI"nmary inquiry before the Vlflgistrcte ami the right of the

Accused tJ cro:.:;··e Yd'11in2 the prcseclItion witness.

10

At pg. 205 ..

Held, that, in the circumstances, the Magistrate's refusal to permit the witness Kandasamy

to be cross-examined by counsel was in effect a denial to the accused of his fundamental

right of representation by a pleader. The fact that the accused questioned the witness in

terms of sections 189 and 157(3) of the Criminal Procedure Code could not result in a

forfeiture of his right to be defended by a pleader, for circumstances did not permit him on

his own to retain a lawyer previously. Moreover, the reasons given by the Magistrate in

support of his refusal to permit cross-examination were clearly not sustainable.

I agree that even if the right and opportunity have not been used, the

requisites of Section 33 would be satisfied.

I have also been invited to consider the provisions of the Indian

Evidence Act. It is similar to Section 33 of our Evidence Ordinance. In Ta Fix

Pramanicts V. Emperor. Held Depos:tio'1 of the Sub-Ir,spector was admissible

under Section 33 of the Evidence Act. The defence had an opportunity of cross

examining him though they did not avail themselves of it.

In viellV of the above and prevailing c~rcumstances of the case in

hand, there is no prohibition in law to 2dmit the deposition X, in evidence that

was led before tht"' High COI.!rt. 'VI2terial placed before the High Court confirm

due comprance with the provisions contained in Section 33 of the Evidence

Ordinance. ThE proce2cings no doubt W3S between the same parties. In the

tI II lrIItI!It[

t,tIi(fJ

~ fIll

IIifIItftiI

I I

I I ! ! I

~ I ! ,j I I i I I ! j l

J I I

\

\

11

non summary proceedings the Accused had the opportunity to cross-examine

the prosecution witness though he failed to avail himself of this opportunity

and cross-examine witness Pushparani. Accused had been at that time

enlarged on bail and could have retained counsel. He was never deprived of

his right to be defended. If he so desired Accused himself could have cross-

examined witness ~PJshparani. In anv event Pushparani was not an eye-

witness. !f at al~ h,~r deposition support ather material evidence. The question

in issue no dDubt substantially and in all respects the same in both

proceedir'gs, The f~x::"2nation provided far in Sect jon 33 fortify the position to

admit deposition ~(

The de!<1V Jf recor,~ing the child wit"ess's statement had been

highlighted, on behalf crf 'the Accused party. The law does not encourage and

tolerate such cl~!2{5. The reasons for delays may be of many varieties and of

many kir.d, D?l3~") could contribute to weaken the prosecution case. Delay

might result irl 2 witr.esses being iY1fluenced; 3nd also prevent the witness

from expressirg tl'i~ truth, and possibility of coaching the witness to deviate

from the t;uth ov, the ether h3'1d c.,il ~"er. could be e3sily taught stories and

make them belie'.'e ;:]nd live i'1 an ir1agina ry world. Nevertheless there are

instances ~ I1d (:a5:'=''': where de'::y !5 in.2vitable, a~ the case in hand, The police

1!

ItI

tJf

I

12

evidence suggests that it was not possible to record the statement of the child

witness, due to his age and mental condition. At a very tender small age he

saw brutal killings of his own kith and kin. He lost the closest companions who

gave all the love and affection to him. There is no need for a doctor or a

medical pr2ctitionE:1" to satisfy the mental condition and the mental trauma of

this child witness. As such time has been the best healer?

To gEt back to the evide~Cf~ testified by the child witness, he was a

little more mature 'J/hen called upon to give evidence in the High Court. Trial

Judge observed the derr:eanor 2,nd deportmert of the vliitness, and considered

him to be a truthfC'l witness. He testified of suffic ient light, i.e ~ from the

Kovil and the bottle Ic,mp Further to WE~apons Jsed to commit the crime, (PI &

P2), som2 mo~j'/e ar::: previous concf.lct of L\ccused being a habitual drunkard,

which resulted ll1 r::onstC'nt quarrels, in t1e hOll5:,ehold. He also testified to the

tolerance of the rr(!ther, awa~t1ng the a"'rival or: ~he husband even at midnight

to serve dinl1~ r. Th!~ a~t of ~:'Iil1g cf th"ee persons; conduct of Accused

subsequent to the at':2cx and ~"ome deicription of the scene of the c:"ime, are

all matter'i ~estified. I ag"'ee with the trial Judrre'~, reascning at folios 357, 358

& 359 of th~~ rE'C:Oi'~ a!ld we sep n') b25i~, to intE'"vene and interfere. Defence

fIIiII

r! It! I I

l I I f I

~

r

I I I I I

\

J j 1 I

1

13

had not succeeded in making any breakthrough in the evidence of the child

witness to favour the defence case. Only contradiction and the omission

suggested does not take the defence case to any acceptable position. In any

event no material contradiction surfaced at the trial. As such much importance

cannot be placed on such minor discrepancies. The suggested discrepancies do

not go to the reat of the matter and not capable of shaking the basic version of

the prosecution ca~;e. In all the circumstances and in the context of this case,

this court observes that the delay is justifed, and the material placed before

court has pro'!r:d the prosecution C3~P beyond reasonable doubt. Medical

evidence suppllri- th·.' prosEcution case. All opinion as regards Pl & P2 had

been expressed hy H'e Doctor. It suggest that the several injll~ies to the

deceasl?d persoi1~, cculd rave been caused by Pl g P2,

Ther2 it; [,ir~ct '3S wen 3S circumstantial evk:lence ;::>Iaced before the

trial court porcp c '\":dence too support the pro5ecution:ase in very many

respects fran" thl:: p,)int of receivinG the 1st complaint to the arrest of the

Accused-Appe!l1rt. I~\ccus.ed had been c:tbscondinc even for a short period and

when the ~olice ~ ::- ... ty came :n se,Hch 0" hli' to arrest him the Accused

attem!2ted to fl?f:' 2i",r. I:'sc:::Ipe. The trill Judse vr-.ry correctly has analysed the

ti,,I

~i

!lif

J! I

~

I

~

rlII

14

case of the Accused -Appellant. It is a total denial of the incident by Accused-

Appellant who made a dock statement (328). Further he states he came home

at 8.00 p.m. he saw blood stains. He saw the dead bodies, and there were no

other persons at that place. He shouted but there was no response and he

went to his brother-:n-Iaw's hou5e, but doors were closed. Thereafter he went

and slept in thE j'J"( zle. The following morning he went to the Badreliya police

where he was as~~ulted and S'2nt to Bu:athsin1ala Police. He was told by the

police to tOl)ch PI &. D2.

Th2 J hO'ie st3tement ob"ious!y i$ no prc~er I~xplanation. Trial

Judge's view i~ th2t I_ord El!enbClrough dic~um even i'~ cannot be applied, by

normal rea:,oning 0'11: could logically infpr guilt.

Ir. crimil1i; ':ases the burden of proof remains the same. Even if the

Accused r'~mair:; C:~~":\Tlt or has given e'/id~nce on oath 0'" a dock statement will

not alter the blJrdf:T of ;Jroof for tr.e pros':'cution. In the ca:e in hand there is

overwhe!ml~g ?v;,:'e :lce both direct ;:: nd circumstantial, which takes the

prosecuti::'in cas? ~.f?~;ond reasonable doubt. Tr.e test of spontaneity and the

test of cotl':empcr:;).2it:'1/ promptne~: ;]re ir'1pcrtant test~; to be applied in

criminal casp-s, hll'~ it is the duty of th,? tria! Judge to give serious thought to

f ! t I

15

the question of delay, in a witness making a statement to court. In the instant

case the delay of the child witness to make a statement is justified. In

Dayananda Lokugalappaththi & Eight others (Embilipitiya murder case) Vs.

State 2003(3) SLR 362 ..

at 363 ..

Per Kulatilaka, J

"In applying ',he test of spontaneity and test of contem:Joraneity and the test of

promptness Court ought to scrupulously proceed to examine the reasons for the delay.

If the reasons for the delay adduced are justifiable and probable the trial Judge is

entitled to act on the evidence of a witness who had made a belated statement."

I have also fortified my views expressed above, and the 'Kobaigane

murder case' (2004 (2) SLR 209) is another valuable authority which considers

a variety of legal aspects pertaining to promptness, Spontaneity, belated

statement etc.

At pg. 220 it is ~.tated~

Just because the statement of a witness is belated t~e Court is not entitled to reject

such testimony. In applying the Test of Spontaneity the Test of contemporaenity and the

Test of Promptness the Court ought to scrupulously proceed to examine the reasons for

the delay. If the reC'sons for the delay adduced by the witness are justifiable and

probable the trial Judge is entitled to act on the evidence of a witness who had made a

I

16

belated statement. Vide in this context the pertinent observations of Justice T.S.

Fernando in Pauling de Cross v The Queen (4) at 180 Vide also Narapal Singh v The State

of Hariyana.

In view of all the facts and circumstances enumerated above, we

hold that the p"osr.cution case had been proved beyond reasonable doubt and

there is absolutely no basis to fault the trial Judge's reasoning which is wholly

justified and legal. As such we affirm the conviction and sentence and proceed

to dismiss this Ji1peal.

6):dJ Gt>-u:~

JUDGE OF TH~F APPEAL

N.S. Rajapaksa J.

I agree.

:5' ~ ----------JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

t. I IIi

t I! IIf I r i I !