==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOOALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

C.A. {Writ) Application No. 571/2011

In the matter of an application

for a writ of Certiorari in terms

of Article 140 of the Constitution.

1

1. S.N.K. Gunasoma,

"Manjula" , Eth Oya,

Ratnapura.

2. S.N.K. Heenmenike,

"Sri Nivasa", Eth Oya,

Ratnapura

3. R.P. Malani Rajapaksa

4. Umesha Prarthana

Narayana, Both of

"Shamali", Eth Oya,

Ratnapura

5. S.N.K. Mallikaratne

Menike,

6. S.N.K. Loku Menike,

Vs.

7. S.N.K. Heen Menmen•ke

alias Chandra Nara-yana,

8. S.N.K. Punchi Menike,

9. S.N.K. Seetharatne

Menike, All of No.44,

Gnanalankara Mawatha,

Gatangama, Ratnapura.

10. K.H. Sumanasena, No.

370, Colombo Street,

Ratnapura.

PETITIONERS

1. National Gem & Jewellery Authority,

2

No.25, Galle Face Terrace, Colombo 3.

2. Wimalaratne Muthugala, Senior Regional Manager,

Regional Officer of the Gem & Jewellery Authority,

Ratnapura.

3. R.H.S. Samaratunga, Secretary, __ _

Ministry of Environment,

11Sampathpaya", No.82, Rajamalawatta, Battaramulla.

4. L. Kiriella, Legal Officer, Ministry of Environment,

11Sampathpaya11, No.82, Rajamalwatta, Battaramulla.

5. J. M. M. Sumendra Tissa, Kumara,

11Vijaya Niwasa

11, Eth Oya, Ratnapura,

6. S.N.K.PodiMenike,C/o.Ranjanath Senaratne,Pillewa Walawwa,Bogahawatta,

Kirindiwela.

7. S.N.K. Gunaratne Menike,

8. S.N.K.Jayaratne Menike, Both of

11Sri Nivasa

11, Eth Oya, Ratnapura.

9. Chanika Nishadi Narayana,

10. Nuwan Praeep Narayana,

3

11. Kushan Prabeep Narayana, All of "Shamali", Eth Oya,

Ratnapura.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued On

Decided On

P. W. D. C. Jayathilake J.

RESPONDENT

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

P.W.O.C. JAYATHILAKE, J

Harsha Soza P.C. with A. Chamara

Abesingha For the Pettioners.

Vikum de Abrew SSC for the 3rd

Respondent

Shantha Karunadhara with Gaithri de

Silva for the 5th Respondent.

28.11.2012

30.05.2013

This is an application for a writ of certiorari in terms of article 140 of the

constitution quashing the decision of the 3rd Respondent R. P. Malani

Rajapaksha, directing the l

5t Respondent S. N. K. Gunasoma to issue a

4

gem mining licence to the 5th Respondent J.M.M. Sumendrathissa

Kumara, in respect of the land called and known as Dikdeniya Kumbura,

Hunugaldeniya and bangahadeniya Kumbura situated at Kahahenagama

depicted as lots, 11,13 and 14 in partition Plan No : 1849 dated

30.05.1954 made by D. J. Hettiarachchi licensed surveyor, partitioned in

D.C. Ratnapura Case NO : 7220/P.

According to the Petitioners, said land was allotted to S.N.K. Dingiri

Mudiyanse Sri Narayana under the final decree (Pl(a)) entered in the said

case (said final plan is annexed to the petition as P 1 (b) ). Sri N arayana

during his life time disposed of lot 12 and on his death intestate an issue

less the other lots were devolved on his brothers S.N.K. Gunarathna

Nilame and S.N.K. Gunasekara Nilame Subject to the life interest of his

widow Beatrice Matilda Wijekoon. Upon the death of the said Gunarathna

Nilame his rights in the said land were devolved upon the 1st and 2nd

Petitioners and 6th , ih and gth Respondents and one S.N.K. Somarathna

who jointly became entitled to an undivided Yz of the said land. The said

S.N.K. Somarathna died intestate leaving his 4 children Nuwan Pradeep

Narayana (lOth Respondent) Kushan Pradeep Narayana (11th Respondent)

Umesha Prarthana Narayana (The 4th Petitioner) and his widow Malani

Rajapaksha (3rd Petitioner) as his heirs.

Upon the death of the aforesaid S.N.K. Gunasekara Nilame, his undivided

Yz in the said land was devolved upon the 5th to 9th Petitioners, and S.N.K.

Chandrasiri and S.N.K. Piyarathna. The said S.N.K. Chandrasiri and

S.N.K. Piyarathna transferred their rights to the 1st Petitioner and

subsequently the said right was transferred to the I oth Petitioner.

Petitioners stated accordingly the 1st to 1Oth Petitioners and 11th Respondent

are the eo-owners of the said land.

5

1st Petitioner and the 5th Respondent applied to the 1st Respondent for a

licence for gemming on said land and after an inquiry informed that the

title was not clear. Therefore both applications were rejected. Then the 1

5

\

2nd, 3rd Petitioners and 6th, 7th and gth Respondents instituted an Action

(P23) in the District Court ofRatnapura seeking a declaration of title to the

land against the 5th Respondent. However as the 1st Petitioner was

informed by the 1st Respondent in the year 2006 that had been decided to

grant the licence to the 5th Respondent, 1st and 2nd Petitioners and 6th, 7th

and 8th Respondents filed a writ application but by that time as it was

brought to the notice of the court the licence issued had lapsed that writ

application was withdrawn. Then the 5th Respondent made a fresh

application for the licence and Petitioners objected to it. Petitioners

received P33(a) from the 1st Respondent subsequent to an inquiry.

Thereafter the 5th Respondent preferred an appeal to the 3rd Respondent

and the 3rd Respondent had given his decision on 27.07.2011 on the basis

that the 5th Respondent had title to the land. ( P34, P35 and P36 ). By this

time 1st to 4th Petitioners 6th , gth and 11th Respondents had instituted a

partition Action in the District Court of Ratnapura to partition the land.

(P33(b))

The Petitioners state in their petition that the 3 rd Respondent in arriving at

the decision has stated the following.

1. The Petitioners have not taken up a position in any court

that the 5th Respondent is not the heir of the said Sri

Narayana. n. That in the Testamentary case No -2074 the 5th

Respondents had got 'li of the said property.

6

111. That in terms of the decree in the Testamentary case and on

rights by virtue of marriage, Beatrice Matilda Wijekoon has

got the other Y2 and she has gifted that Y2 of the said land to

the 5th Respondent.

1v. The oral and documentary evidence show that the 5th

Respondent has got full title to the land.

v. Court has not issued an injunction restraining the issuance

of Gemming licence.

But Petitioners alleged that Sri Narayana being person governed by the

Kandyan Law he could legally adopt the 5th Respondent only if he had

followed the procedure laid down in Section 7(1) of the Kandyan Law

Declaration and Amendment Ordinance, and the affidavit tendered (P3 7) in

that respect was a fraudulent document. With regard to the Testamentary

action Petitioners have taken up the position that it confers no title to the

property.

Petitioners complain that the 3rd Respondent has decided on a matter which

was subjudice and has erred by failing to appreciate and consider the fact

that the District Court cannot issue an injunction Restraining the 1st

Respondent issuing in a Gemming licence under and in terms of the

Provisions of the National Gem and Authority act NO : 50 of 1993.

It appears that there has been a long standing dispute between the

Petitioners and the 5th Respondent in regard to the ownership ofthe land in

dispute. Despite the fact that Petitioners were continuously opposing the 5th

Respondent being able to obtain the Gemming licence for the said land.

The matter in issue to be decided in between Petitioners and the 5th •.. . Respondent by the Civil court would be whether the 5th Respondent is a

legally adopted child of Narayana or not. But it has been taken several

7

i,

years for this litigation without a final solution. Therefore the 3''

Respondent has decided to issue the Gemming licence to the S"'

Respondent taking into consideration fundamental material available in

favour of the 5th Respondent. Accordingly this court does not find any

irregularity or error of the 3rd Respondent arriving at the decision in issue.

For these reasons this Court dismisses this application with cost.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

S. SRISKANDARAJAH. J (P /CA}

I agree.

PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

8