==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

CAW Application No.330/2012

In the matter of an application for a

mandate in the nature of a writ of

certiorari in terms of the provisions of

article 140 of the constitution of the

democratic socialist republic of Sri

Lanka.

Rupahinge Gunaratne

Mihirigalgoda, Pahala

Karawita.

Petitioner

Vs.

1. Madara Swarnamalee Wijewardena

Thennakoon, Ransinwatte

Walawwa,

Uda Karawita.

2. National Gem and Jewellery

Authority

Galle Face Court, Colombo 03.

3. Prasad Galhena, The Chairman

National Gem and Jewellery

Authority,

Galle Face Court, Colombo 03.

4. N.P. Samaratunga

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Supported on

Written Submission on

Order on

S.Sriskandarajah, J,

2

Senior Regional Manager, National

Gem And Jewellery Authority,

Regional Office,

Ratnapura.

Respondents

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

Gamini Marapana PC with Navin Marapana,

for the Petitioner,

S.M. D. Bandara,

for the Respondents

06.11.2012 and 12.11.2012

30.01.2013

21.02.2013

The learned President's Counsel for the Petitioner supported this application and

sought an interim relief staying, the operation and/ or suspending the licence bearing

No.8529, issued to the 1st Respondent to gem on the land called and known as

"Peelikumbura" and preventing the 1st Respondent from gemming on the said land

until the final determination of this application. This order relates to the said interim

relief sought by the Petitioner.

The Petitioner in this application has sought a writ of certiorari to quash the decision of

the 2nd, 3rct and 4th Respondents to issue a licence bearing No.8529 to the 1st Respondent

to gem on the said land called as Peelikumbura. It is the position of the Petitioner that

the Petitioner is the owner of the undivided 36/59 shares in the said land called

3

Peelikumbura, and the said shares in the land amount to more than half share of the soil

rights of the said land. The Petitioner claimed that in view of the fact that the Petitioner,

as well as the 1st Respondent claim title from the common predecessor viz., Douglas

Thennakoon, the 1st Respondent had filed a false and erroneous pedigree regarding the

devolution of the title to the said land in the pedigree, the 1st Respondent falsely

suppressed the rights of the Petitioner by not disclosing that Douglas Thennekoon had

in the year 1979.

The Petitioner contended, after an inquiry, the 2nd Respondent decided to issue a

licence to the 1st Respondent. The original licence was issued on condition that the 1st

Respondent agrees to deposit a 2/54 share of the sale proceeds of all gems found on the

land. The said licence was renewed on 19/10/2012. The 1st Respondent contended that

the title relied on by the 1st Respondent in her said application to the 2nd Respondent

dated 20th April2011 was based solely on a statutory determination made by the Land

Reform Commission in terms of the Land Reform Law, in favour of one Douglas

Thennekoon for the year 1980. The 1st Respondent claims to have inherited the title so

obtained of the said Douglas Thennekoon. The Petitioner has obtained a licence bearing

No.6448 on 7/12/2011. The Petitioner has not challenged the said licence, but thereafter

when the said licence period had lapsed and when it was renewed the Petitioner has

sought to challenge the said renewal. It is the submission of the 1st Respondent that in

terms of sub-section 7 of Section 15 of the National Gem and Jewellery Authority Act,

the authority can revoke a licence issued under sub section 2 only in the event of

default to pay any money payable there under or on the failure of the licencee to

comply with any of the terms and conditions of the licence.

In Duwaratchi and Another Vs. Vincent and Others (1984) 2 Sri L.R. page 94, the Court laid

down the principles on which an interim order could be issued. It held, an interim stay

order in a writ application is an incidental order made in the exercise of the inherent or

implied power of the Court. The Court should be guided by the following principles:-

4

1) Will a final order be rendered nugatory if the Petitioner is successful?;

2) Where does the balance of convenience lie?

3) Will irreparable or irremediable mischief or injury be caused to either party?

In considering the question of interim order the Court must bear in mind that an

interim order is made in the exercise of inherent or implied power of court, in

circumstances where the final order is, if the Petitioner is successful, be rendered

nugatory and the aggrieved party will be left holding a decree worthless for all

purpose. In the light of the above principle, if one considers the interim order sought in

this application, The Petitioner had made several attempts to establish his title in the

Distinct Court and by way of Appeal to the High Court and failed. He cannot get an

order in his favour in relation to title in this application. The 1st Respondent was

gemming in the said land for over an year therefore the balance of convenience is in his

favour. Issuing a stay order would cause irremediable mischief to the 1st Respondent.

For the above reasons and as the Petitioner has made this application belatedly to

challenge the renewal of the issuance of the licence and, as he has not challenged the

licence when it was originally issued in 2011, the Petitioner is not entitled for an interim

relief as prayed for in the petition and, therefore, this court is not inclined to issue an

interim order in this application.

President of the Court of Appeal