==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA Appeal No. 795/98 (F)

DC Kalutara No. 3840/MR

W.D. Wijedasa Pothuwila Road, Payagala South. W.D. Ajith Upananda Pothuwila, Payagala.

Appellants

Vs.

E. Abeywikrama Weerasinghe No: 239, H-3 Perera Road, Horagolla, Ganemulla.

Respondent

C.A. Appeal No. 795/98 (F) - D.C. Kalutara No. 3840/MR

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

K.T. Chitrasiri, J.

K. T. CHITRASIRI, J.

Chandana Liyanapatabendy P.C. with Harshana Ranasinghe for the Defendant-Appellants.

N.R. Sivendran with M.P. Manatunga and T. Sivanandaraja for the Plaintiff-Respondent.

21.03.2013.

Both Counsel submit that the dispute in this case is now

settled between the parties in accordance with the terms of

settlement mentioned herein below:

(1) The two defendants jointly and severally agree to pay

Rs. One Million Two Hundred Thousand (Rs. 1,200,000 I-) as

full and final settlement of the decree, entered by the learned

District Judge in this case.

(2) In view of the above suggestion the plaintiff-

respondent agrees to accept the sum of Rs. One Million Two

Hundred Thousand (Rs. 1,200,000/-) as full and final

settlement of his claim in this case.

1

(3) Mr. Chandana Liyanabatabendy President's Counsel who

is looking after the interest of the Sri Lanka Insurance

Corporation as well, undertakes to ensure the aforesaid

payment be made by the Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation

Limited since the Insurance Corporation is the insurer of the

vehicle involved in the accident where the plaintiff was

injured.

(4) The aforesaid sum of Rs. One Million Two Hundred

Thousand (Rs. 1,200,000/-) is to be paid within a period of

one month from today and the cheque for the said amount to

be written in the name of the plaintiff-respondent and to be

sent it to the Registered Attorney namely Thavanesan &

Fernando of the plaintiff under registered cover.

Accordingly, this appeal is dismissed subject to the

terms and conditions referred to above.

Appeal dismissed without costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

/mds

2