==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Case No: CA (PHC) 114/2010

H.C. Rathnapura Case No: WA 28/2009

An appeal made under and in terms of Article 154 P

(6) read together with Article 138 of the Constitution

of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

M.K.Priyanka Anusha

De Iga m uwa, Ku ruwita.

4th Respondent -Appellant

Vs.

Dehipayalage Thilakarathne

M uruthaketiya, Kada ngoda,

Kuruwita.

Petitioner-Respondent

01. Co-operative Employees Commission

Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council,

New Town, Rathnapura.

02.Commissioner and Registrar of the

Sabaragamuwa Province Co-operative Development,

New Town, Rathnapura.

03. Kuruwita Multipurpose Co-operative

Society Limited,

Kuruwita

Respondents-Respondents

Page 1 of 8

Before: K.K. Wickremasinghe J.

Janak De Silva J.

Counsel:

R.M.D. Bandara with Lilanthi De Silva for 4th Respondent-Appellant

Asthika Devendra with Kaneel Maddumage for Petitioner-Respondent

Upul Kumarapperuma with Sachini Dassanayake for 3rd Respondent-Respondent

Manohara Jayasinghe State Counsel for pt Respondent-Respondent

Written Submissions tendered on:

4th Respondent-Appellant on 13.02.1015,09.12.2016 and 06.08.2018

Petitioner-Respondent on 24.02.2015, 09.12.2016 and 09.08.2018

3rd Respondent-Respondent on 23.04.2015

Argued on: 18.06.2018

Decided on: 21.09.2018

Janak De Silva J.

This is an appeal made by the 4th Respondent-Appellant (Appellant) against the judgement of the

learned High CourtJudge of the Sabaragamuwa Province holden in Ratnapura dated 12.10.2010.

The 3rd Respondent-Respondent (3rd Respondent) called for applications for the post of Business

Development Officer. One qualification required was that the candidate should possess a

minimum of five years' experience in a permanent post of Clerk/Branch Manager/Typist/Field

Officer/Account Assistance/Internal Auditor. Both the Appellant and Petitioner-Respondent

(Respondent) applied for the post.

Page 2 of 8

At the interview, the Respondent received 224 marks whereas the Appellant received only 191

marks. The 3rd Respondent decided to appoint the Respondent to the post and sought approval

of the pt Respondent-Respondent (1st Respondent) for the said appointment.

Thereafter the Appellant had made a complaint to the 1st Respondent that she was not given the

proper marks. The pt Respondent directed the 3rd Respondent to appoint the Appellant to the

said post (G'o.3).

The Respondent then instituted proceedings before the High Court of the Sabaragamuwa

Province holden in Rathnapura challenging the said decision of the pt Respondent. The learned

High Court Judge granted the relief prayed for in the application and hence this appeal.

The pt Respondent appears to have concluded that the Respondent did not have a minimum of

five years' experience in a permanent post of Clerk/Branch Manager/Typist/Field

Officer/Account Assistance/Internal Auditor. However, this does not appear to have been the

basis for the objection made by the Appellant.

In fact, as far as the 3rd Respondent was concerned, there was no doubt that the Respondent

possessed the minimum of five years' experience in a relevant permanent post. Letter dated

14.07.2009 (G'o.1) sent by the 3rd Respondent to the 1st Respondent shows that the Respondent

possessed the minimum qualification. It is the same in the annexures attached to letter dated

02.09.2008 (G'o.2) by which the 3rd Respondent sought the approval of the pt Respondent to

appoint the Respondent.

The evidence before the High Court also establishes the fact that the Respondent possessed the

minimum qualification. The first appointment of the Respondent by the 3rd Respondent was to

the post of clerk on 28.06.1991 (G'o.5) which was subject to a probationary period of two years.

There is no inflexible rule providing for the automatic renewal of probation and that an inference

of renewal can only be drawn in those cases in which the circumstances justify it [State Distilleries

Corporation v. Rupasinghe (1994) 2 Sri. L. R. 395]. The evidence before the High Court did not

show any act on the part of the 3rd Respondent extending the period of probation beyond

Page 3 of 8

27.06.1993. In fact, the 3rd Respondent, the employer, did not contend that the said probationary

period was extended.

Furthermore, the Respondent was appointed permanently as a Field Officer by the 3rd

Respondent with effect from 01.09.2001 (3e)1) which appointment was made with the specific

approval of the pt Respondent as reflected in letter dated 21.01.2002 (3e)2).

The applications for the post of Business Development Officer was called on 07.07.2008. Clearly

by this time the Respondent had served more than five years in a permanent post of Clerk/ Field

Officer.

The Appellant contended that the Respondent has not been issued with a letter of appointment

in accordance with schedule 1 of the Regulations dated 26.11.1981 made under section 32(1) of

the Co-operative Employees Commission Act No. 12 of 1972 (Regulation) (@o.4). If this

submission is to be accepted then even the status of the Appellant as a permanent employee is

also questionable for Regulation 11 requires that the appointment must be subject to a

probationary period of two years whereas the letter of appointment issued to the Appellant

(1e)10) does not have such a term.

The issuing of a proper letter of appointment is a matter for the 3rd Respondent as the employer

and not the Respondent as the employee. Lex non cogit ad impossibilia that is, the law does not

expect a person to do what is impossible. The Respondent certainly cannot be penalized when

all available material show that the Respondent was holding a permanent post with the approval

of the pt Respondent.

For the foregoing reasons, the learned High Court Judge correctly concluded that the 1st

Respondent erred in concluding that the Respondent did not have a minimum of five years'

experience in a permanent post of Clerk/Field Officer.

At the hearing, the Appellant submitted several preliminary objections on which the judgment of

the learned High Court Judge should be set aside which does not appear to have been urged

before the High Court.

Page 4 of 8

The preliminary objections raised by the Appellant for the first time in appeal are:

(a) The decision sought to be quashed was not made in the exercise of any statutory power

and hence a writ of Certiorari does not lie.

(b) Office to which the Respondent is seeking appointment is not a public office and hence a

writ of Mandamus does not lie.

(c) Petition is misconceived in law as much as it seeks a writ of Mandamus on the pt

Respondent Commission without naming a natural person who holds public office.

(d) The pt Respondent Commission does not owe any public duty to the Respondent and

hence he has no status to make an application for a writ of Mandamus.

The learned Counsel for the Respondent submitted that none of these preliminary objections

were taken before the High Court and as such should not be considered by Court. I will now

consider this submission.

The appeal before Court is against an order made by the High Court in the exercise of the

jurisdiction conferred upon it by Article 154P (4) of the Constitution. Section 7 of the High Court

of the Provinces (Special Provisions) Act No. 19 of 1990 states that the provisions of written law

applicable to applications the Court of Appeal invoking the jurisdiction vested in that Court by

Articles 140 and 141 of the Constitution shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to applications made to a

High Court established by Article 154P of the Constitution invoking the jurisdiction vested in that

Court by paragraph (4) of Article 154P of the Constitution. The relevant procedural rules are

found in The Court of Appeal (Appellate Procedure) Rules 1990 (Rules).

Rule 3(7) allows a Respondent to file a statement of objections and state further that where it

contains any averments of fact, it shall be supported by an affidavit in support of such facts. This

clearly indicates that a statement of objections is not limited to averments of facts and it can

contain averments of law as well as law and facts. This is further corroborated by Rule 4(5)(b)

which provides that the written submissions of the Respondent shall contain as concisely as

possible the questions of law or the matters which are in issue in the application.

Page 5 of 8

The Appellant did file a statement of objections in the High Court but none of the preliminary

objections raised before this Court was urged before the High Court. The Appellant did not file

any written submissions in the High Court. Clearly, the Appellant failed to comply with the Rules.

What is interesting is that the iSt Respondent, whose actions are impugned in these and the

proceedings before the High Court did not raise any of the preliminary objections raised by the

Appellant. The iSt Respondent informed Court that it will not be filing any written submissions.

The first time that these preliminary objections are raised by the Appellant is in the written

submissions filed in this Court on 13.02.2015.

It is in this context that Court must decide whether to consider the preliminary objections raised

belatedly by the Appellant. In jathika Sevaka Sangamaya v. Sri Lanka Ports Authority and another

[(2003) 3 Sri. L. R. 146] the Court of Appeal held that a preliminary objection can be a pure

question of law, it could be based on a mixed question of law and facts and even on a question

of fact alone.

It is trite law that a pure question of law can be raised of for the first time. The Supreme Court in

Somawathie v. Wi/mon and others [(2010) 1 Sri. L. R. 128] held that a new ground cannot be

considered for the first time in appeal, if the said new ground has not been raised at the trial

under the issues so framed. It was further held that the Appellate Court could consider a point

raised for the first time in appeal if the following requirements are fulfilled:

(a) The question raised for the first time in appeal, is a pure question of law and is not a mixed

question of law and fact.

(b) The question raised for the first time in appeal, is an issue put forward in the Court below,

under one of the issues raised, and

(c) the Court which hears the appeal has before it all the material that is required to decide

the question.

Page 6 of 8

In Romesh Coorey v. Jayalath, Sub-Inspector of Police and others [(2008) 2 SrLL.R. 43 at 51] Dr.

Bandaranayake J. (as she was then) upon a consideration of Rules 45 (6), (7) and (8) and 30(4) of

the Supreme Court Rules of 1990 held:

"Accordingly, on a consideration of the aforementioned Rules, it is evident that a

preliminary objection should be raised at the time the objections are filed and/or should

be referred to in the written submissions that has to be tendered in terms of the Rules.

The objective of this procedure is quite easy to comprehend. The whole purpose of

objections and written submissions is to place their case by both parties before Court

prior to the hearing and when the petitioner's objections are taken along with the

objections and/or written submissions filed by the respondents prior to the hearing, it

would not come as a surprise either to the affected parties or to Court and the

applications could be heard without prejudice to anyone's rights."

I am of the view that the same reasoning is applicable in view of the Rules that apply when the

writ jurisdiction of this Court or the High Court of the Provinces is invoked. A further reason for

insisting that preliminary objections in writ applications must be raised in the objections and/or

written submissions filed by the Respondents prior to the hearing is as otherwise it will amount

to acquiescence or waiver. Of course, if the preliminary objection is on the patent lack of

jurisdiction, it can be raised at any time as no waiver of objection or acquiescence can cure the

want of jurisdiction; the reason for this being that to permit parties by their conduct to confer

jurisdiction on a tribunal which has none would be to admit a power in the parties to litigation to

create new jurisdictions or to extend a jurisdiction beyond its existing limits, both of which are

within the exclusive privilege of the legislature [Beatrice Perera v. Commissioner of National

Housing (77 N.L.R. 361)]. However, the preliminary objections raised by the Appellant does not

raise any issues of patent lack of jurisdiction.

Accordingly, I am of the view that the Appellant cannot be permitted to raise the preliminary

objections formulated before this Court for the first time. These preliminary objections should

have been raised in the objections and/or written submissions filed before the High Court.

Page 7 of 8

•

For the foregoing reasons, I see no reason to interfere with the judgement of the learned High

Court Judge of the Sabaragamuwa Province holden in Ratnapura dated 12.10.2010.

Appeal is dismissed with costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

K.K. Wickremasinghe J.

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Page 8 of 8