==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA Writ 25/2013

Sadna Indunil Kasthuriarachchi No: 87/40, Gemunupura, 2nd Land, Kottawa, Pannipitiya.

Petitioner Vs. Mahara Pradeshiya Sabha Pahala Karagahamuna, Kadawatha. And 02 others.

Respondents

Before

Counsel

Argued & Decided on

S. Sriskandarajah, J PICA

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J

M. Rathnayaka with L.L.De Silva for the Petitioner.

07.02 2012.

S. Sriskandarajah, J PICA

CA2512013

The petitioner in this application is seeking a writ of certiorari to quash the

decision contain in P4 & P6 of the respondents particularly the wall is

dangerous to users of the adjoining road way.

The respondent contended under section 35 ofthe Pradeshiya Saba Act No. 15

of 1987. "if any house or building, bounding wall or gateway adjoining any

street or thoroughfare in any area or anything affixed thereon, be deemed by

the Pradeshiya Sabha of that area to be in a ruinous state, whether dangerous

or not, or to be likely to fall, the Pradeshiya Sabha shall immediately if it

appears to be necessary, cause a proper boarding or fence to be put up for the

protection of persons using such street or thoroughfare, and shall cause

notice in writing to be served on the " owner or occupier forthwith to take

down, secure, or repair such house, building, boundary wall, 'gateway or

thing affixed thereon, as the case may require"

In view of the above section the Pradeshiya Sabaha is entitled to issue notice

to the owner or occupier of the house, building, or boundary wall1 that if the

1

structure is in ruinous state whether dangerous or not or to be likely to fall and

if it appears to the Pradeshiya Sabaha that is it necessary it could course a

notice in writing to the owner in terms of that section.

The learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that the boundary wall that

was complained of was not in a state of ruinous state and not dangerous to the

public. The petitioner submitted that he has got a report from a Structural

Engineer, and the said Structural Engineer's Report is marked as "P7".

The Structural Engineer's Report has stated during the visual inspections of

the existing boundary wall he has observed that the boundary wall has got

slightly slanted at some locations and some crakes had appeared in some of

the wall planters one of the covering plasters has subjected to spalling.

In view of the above observation and the fact that the test that the Pradeshiya

Saba has to apply..ing in arriving at a decision under section 35 i(s a subjective ;L.L-

test, this court cannot interfere in the said decisions of the said Pradeshiya

Saba and therefore this court refuses to issue notice on the respondents.

President of the Court of Appeal

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J

I agree

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Na!-

2