==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA 347/2000 (f) DC Balapitiya Case No.2005/P

Uhanowitage Sirisena, Sesathgodawaththa, Pahala Omaththa, Ganegoda.

Plaintiff Vs. Eclirisinghage Somasiri, Pahala Omaththa, and others

Defendants AND NOW BETWEEN Uhanowitage Nanclisena Pahala Omaththa Ganegoda

3rd Defendant-Appellant. Vs. Uhanowitage Sirisena Sesathgodawaththa Pahala Omaththa Ganegoda

Plaintiff- Respondent

C .A. Appeal No. 347/2000(F}-D.C. Balapitiya No. 2005/P

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

M.S.A. Wadood with Palith Subasinghe and Charitha Kulatunga for the 3rd Defendant- Appellant.

Daya Guruge for the Respondents

29.01.2013. *********

Upaly Abeyrathne, J.

Both Counsel concluded their oral submissions.

The plaintiff-appellant has instituted the said action

in the District Court of Balapitiya to partition the land described

in the schedule to the plaint. The 3r~ defendant-appellant in

paragraph 2 of her statement of claim stated that lots E and G

shown 1n the preliminary plan bearing No. 192 prepared by

Y.R.D. Samarawickrema the licensed surveyor should be

excluded from the partition.

On the date of trial, the learned District Judge

without proceeding to mqu1re into the dispute between the

parties had arrived at a decision that the land described in the

schedule to the plaint should be partitioned according to the

evidence of the plaintiff-respondent. It appears from the

proceedings dated 15.2.1996, that the learned District Judge had

failed to proceed to record the issues on which the right decision

of the case appears to the court to depend. Proceedings on the

said date namely 15.02.1996 further shows that the learned

District Judge had failed to hold an inquiry according to the

Sections 25 and 26 of the Partition Act.

Section 25 ( 1) of the Partition Act stipulates that " On the date

fixed for the trial of a the partition action or on any other date

to which the trial may be postponed or adjourned, the court shall

examine the title of each party and shall hear and receive evidence

in support thereof and shall try and determine all questions of

law and fact arising in that action in regard to the right, share, or

interest of each party to, of, or in the land to which the action

relates, and shall consider and decide which of the orders

I mentioned in section 26 should be made."

Learned Counsel for the plaintiff-respondents

conceded that the learned District Judge had failed to adhere

to the provisions contained in section 25( 1) of the Partition Act.

In the said circumstances, I hold that this case

should be sent back to the District Court of Balapitiya for a fresh

I

i

~

II

f l' ! ' l

l

J

inquiry on the same plaint and the stat~ments of claim already

filed by the parties. I make no order for costs.

The Trial Judge is directed to conclude the trial

expeditiously.

Registrar is directed to send the main case record to

the relevant District Court.

Case sent back for retrial.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

/mds