==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

In the matter of an Appeal under and in terms of Article 154P(6) of the Constitution read together with the High Court of the Provinces (Special Provisions) Act No. 19 of 1990 (as amended).

Ranasinghe Pathiranalage Bernard Karunathilaka NO. 319/1, Pathahamulla, Pansala Para, Nikadalupotha.

Petitioner-Appellant Court of Appeal Case No: CA/PHC/0123/2023 Provincial High Court of Kurunegala Vs, Case No. HCR 04/2023 Kurunegala MC No. 43779/20 01. Officer in Chage

Police Station, Kambukgate. 02. Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General’s Department, Colombo 12. 03. Vallibel Finance PLC No. 310,

Galle Road,

Colombo 03.

Respondent-Respondents

2

Before: Amal Ranaraja, J.

Dr. Sumudu Premachandra, J.

Counsel: Shantha Jayawardana with Wihangi Tissera for the

Petitioner-Appellant

Wishwa Wijesooriya, S.C. for the State.

Argued on: 03.07.2026

Judgment on: 06.08.2026

Judgment

Amal Ranaraja. J,

1. On November 28th, 2020, officers of the Kumbukgate police station have

arrested a person named Kodithuwakku Arachchilage Gayan Erandha

Kodikara, for transporting Teak, Halmilla and Kohamba timber logs

valued at Rs.18,037.89 without a valid permit. This has occurred in a

vehicle bearing Registration Number NWHB 5911.

2. Thereafter, the officer in charge of the Kumbukgate police has instituted

proceedings in the Kurunegala Magistrates Court against the person

referred to above for illegally transporting Teak, Halmilla and Kohamba

timber logs, an offence punishable under Section 24(1) read with

3

Sections 25(2) and 40 of the Forest Ordinance No.16 Of 1907 (as

Amended). The accused upon pleading guilty to the charge has been

convicted and sentenced.

3. Subsequently, a confiscation inquiry has been held regarding the

vehicle bearing Registration No. NWHB 5911. By order dated November

24th, 2022, the learned Magistrate has ordered the confiscation of said

vehicle. Aggrieved by the order, the registered owner petitioner-

appellant (hereinafter referred to as the appellant) has filed an

application in revision HCR 04/23 in the High Court of Kurunegala.

4. The learned High Court Judge, by his order dated March 31st, 2023,

has dismissed the revision application and affirmed the order of the

learned Magistrate. The appellant also being aggrieved by the order of

the learned High Court Judge of Kurunegala dated March 31st, 2023,

has preferred the instant appeal to this Court.

5. It is common ground that the officer in charge of the Kumbukgate police

has instituted proceedings against Kodithuwakku Arachchilage Gayan

Erandha Kodikara, for illegally transporting Teak, Halmilla and

Kohamba timber logs valued at Rs. 18,037.89 on November 28th, 2020,

thereby, committing an offence punishable under Section 24(1) read

with Sections 25(2) and 40 of the Forest Ordinance No.16 Of 1907 (as

Amended).

6. Section 40 of the Forest Ordinance No.16 Of 1907 (as Amended)

provides as follows;

40.

(1) Where any person is convicted of a forest offence-

(a) all timber or forest produce which is not the property of the

State in respect of which such offence has been committed; and

4

(b) all tools, vehicles, implements, cattle and machines used in

committing such offence,

shall in addition to any other punishment specified for such offence,

be confiscated by Order of the convicting Magistrate:

Provided that in any case where the owner of such tools, vehicles,

implements and machines used in the commission of such

offence, is a third party, no Order of Confiscation shall be made if

such owner proves to the satisfaction of the Court that he had

taken all precautions to prevent the use of such tools, vehicles,

implements, cattle and machines, as the case may be, for the

commission of the offence.'.

(2) Any property forfeited to the State under subsection (1) shall

(a) if no appeal has been preferred to the Court of Appeal against

the relevant conviction, vest absolutely in the State with

effect from the date on which the period prescribed for

preferring an appeal against such conviction expires;

(b) if an appeal has been preferred to the Court of Appeal

against the relevant conviction, vest absolutely in the State

with effect from the date on which such conviction is

affirmed on appeal.

In this subsection, 'relevant conviction' means the conviction in

consequence of which any property is forfeited to the State under

subsection (1).'.

5

7. Section 40 of the Forest Ordinance, states that upon a conviction, all

timber and forest produce that have been the subject matter of the

offence, and vehicles used for the commission of such offence, would be

confiscated. If the owner of the vehicle himself was the accused in the

preceding case, then the issue before the Court in a confiscation inquiry

will not be complicated. However, if the owner is a third party, it would

be necessary for a Court to ascertain whether the offence was

committed by a particular accused with the knowledge and the

connivance of the owner of the vehicle used for the commission of the

forest offence.

8. The owner of the vehicle must establish on a balance of probability, that

he took all precautions to prevent the vehicle from being used in the

commission of a forest offence. The specific precautions deemed

relevant will vary from case to case; there are no universal measures

that all vehicle owners must follow. It is crucial that the precautions

taken are convincing and clearly demonstrate the owner’s diligence.

9. Further, in an inquiry in the nature of the one in question, the owner

of a vehicle is considered to be the person who has control over the

vehicle in issue.

10. In Oriental Finance Services Corporation Ltd vs Range Forest Officer and

Another [2011] 1 SLR 86, Sisira de Abrew, J, has stated,

“Who is the owner of the vehicle? This is the most important question

that must be decided in this case. Can it be said that the absolute

owner (the finance company) committed the offence or it was

committed with the knowledge or participation of the absolute

owner. The answer is obviously no. Surely a finance company cannot

participate in the commission of an offence of this nature when the

vehicle is not with it. It cannot be said that the finance company had

the knowledge of the commission of the offence when the vehicle was

6

not with it. The owner envisaged in the law cannot be the absolute

owner.

In the present case the registered owner is the one who drove the

vehicle at the time of the commission of the offence. He was convicted

on his own plea. If the court is going to release the vehicle on the basis

that the owner of the vehicle is the absolute owner, then after the

release, it is possible for the absolute owner to give the vehicle to

another person. If this person commits a similar offence, the finance

company can take up the same position, and the vehicle would be

again released. Then where is the end to the commission of the

offence? Where is the end of the violation of the Forest Ordinance?

There will be no end. If the courts of this country take up this attitude

the purpose of the legislature in enacting the said provisions of the

Forest Ordinance would be defeated. In my view Courts should not

interpret the law to give an absurd meaning to the law. In this

connection I would like to consider a passage from 'Interpretation of

Statutes by Bindra 7th edition page 235." It is a well known rule of

construction that a statute should not be construed so as to impute

absurdity to the legislature."

For these reasons I hold that the owner envisaged in law is not the

absolute owner and the owner envisaged in law in a case of this

nature is the person who has control over the use of the vehicle. The

absolute owner has no control over the use of the vehicle except to

retake the possession of the vehicle for non-payment of instalments.

If the vehicle is confiscated holding that the absolute owner is not the

owner envisaged in law, no injustice would be caused to him as he

could recover the amount he spent from the registered owner by way

7

of action in the District Court on the basis of violation of the

agreement.”

11. The appellant being the registered owner of the vehicle bearing the

Registration No. NWHB 5911 has testified that he had cautioned the

driver against engaging the vehicle in illegal activity.

12. On the day in question the driver had been the appellant’s brother.

The brother had not been the regular driver. He has taken the vehicle

on that day on ad-hoc basis. The appellant has stated that he verbally

cautioned his brother against engaging the vehicle in any illegal

activity, or to not use the vehicle for any unlawful purpose.

13. Though the appellant has also testified that he remained in telephone

contact with his brother afterwards, he has been unable to provide

any telephone details of the individuals involved. Taken together with

the discrepancy already mentioned, this evidence suggests a causal

approach by the appellant. The testimony is vague and lacking in

supporting detail. In these circumstances, the Magistrate cannot

safely rely on it

14. Further in the case of Attorney General Vs. Ranbandaraghe Hasitha

Sulochana Priyaratne SC Appeal No. 56/2024 decided on 16.01.2024,

K. Kumuduni Wickramasinghe, J, has held,

“In the present case, the Respondent has only established that he issued

certain oral instructions to the driver. However, such instructions, by

themselves, cannot be regarded as constituting all the precautions that

a prudent owner ought to have taken.”

15. Given these circumstances, both the learned Magistrate and the

learned High Court Judge have correctly determined that the

appellant has failed to establish, on a balance of probability, the legal

8

requirement specified in the proviso of Section 40 of the Forest

Ordinance No. 16 of 1907.

16. Accordingly, I am not inclined to interfere with the disputed orders of

the learned Magistrate and the learned High Court Judge dated

November 24th, 2022 and March 31st, 2023 respectively.

17. I hereby dismiss the appeal and make no order regarding costs.

Appeal dismissed.

18. The Registrar is directed to send this judgement to the Magistrates

Court in Kurunegala for information and compliance.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Dr. Sumudu Premachandra, J.

I agree

Judge of the Court of Appeal