==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 604 I 2000 (F)

D.C. Avissawella No. 13731 I L

W.N. Chandrasekera Bandara Wickremasinghe, Pahala Nedurana, Eheliyagoda.

Substituted Plaintiff Vs.

1. A. L. Asanda, 2. A. L. Simon, 3. A. L. Suraweera, All of Pahaladankumbura, Kendagamuwa. 4. H. Karunaratne, Minnana, Getahetta.

And Now Between

H. Karunaratne, Minnana, Getahetta

Defendants

4th Defendant-Appellant

Vs

W.N. Chandrasekera Bandara Wickremasinghe, Pahala Nedurana, Eheliyagoda.

Substituted Plaintiff Respondent

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

2

1. A. L. Asanda, 2. A. L. Simon, 3. A. L. Suraweera, All of Pahaladankumbura, Kendagamuwa.

Defendant Respondents

UPALY ABEYRATHNEJ.

4th Defendant Appellant - Absent and

Unrepresented

B.O.P. Jayawardane for the Plaintiff

Respondent

01.02.2013

03.05.2013

The Plaintiff Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the Respondent)

instituted an action against the 1st 2nd 3rd and 4th Defendants in the District Court of

A vissawella seeking for a declaration of title to an undivided 5/8 share of the land

described in the schedule to the plaint. The Defendants filed answer denying the

averments in the plaint and prayed for a dismissal of the Respondent's action. The

case proceeded to trial on 23 issues. After trial, the learned Additional District

Judge has delivered judgement in favour of the Respondent as prayed for in the

plaint. Being aggrieved by the said judgment dated 28.07.2000 the 4th Defendant

3

Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant) has preferred the present appeal

to this court.

In paragraph 05 of the petition of appeal the Appellant has set out

several grounds of appeal. It seems from the said grounds of appeal that the main

grievance of the Appellant was that the learned Additional District Judge has failed

to consider the fact that the Respondent has failed to prove the title. I now consider

the said grounds of appeal.

According to the evidence of the Respondent his title to the land in

dispute has emanated from title deeds. He has produced said title deeds marked P 5

and P 6. P 5 was a deed of transfer dated 02.10.1873. According to the evidence of

the Respondent 1st to 3rct Defendant Respondents had cultivated the land in dispute

as 'ande cultivators' under the plaintiff. In proof of the said fact the Respondent

has produced the copies obtained from the Agricultural Land Register marked P 1,

P 2 and P 3. The Respondent has further stated that after the 'Maha Season

197111972' the 1st to 3rd Defendant Respondents denying the rights of the Plaintiff

Respondent has unlawfully given the owner's share of the crops to the Appellant.

The Appellant has not produced any documentation against P 1, P 2

and P 3. When I consider the said evidence I am of the view that the Appellant has

failed to prove his case on a balance of probabilities. Hence I see no reason to

interfere with the said judgement of the learned District Judge dated 28.07.2000.

Therefore I dismiss the appeal of the Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal