==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 1314/2000 (F)

D.C. Panadura No. 221 / L

Meragngnage Padmasiri Bandula Vijitha

Salgadu, No. 644, 'Jesminvila', Galle Road, Nalluruwa, Panadura.

Plaintiff Vs.

1. Guruge Sarath Fernando, 2. Guruge Ajith Fernando, 3. Guruge Sugath Fernando, 4. Guruge Chandrika Fernando, All of No 351, Galle Road, Nalluruwa, Panadura.

Defendants

And Now Between

Guruge Ajith Fernando, No 351, Galle Road, Nalluruwa, Panadura.

2nd Defendant-Appellant Vs

Meragngnage Padmasiri Bandula Vij itha

Salgadu, No. 644, 'Jesminvila',

Galle Road, Nalluruwa, Panadura.

Plaintiff -Respondent

f i !I

\1r

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2

UPALY ABEYRATHNE, J.

2nd Defendant Appellant - Absent and

Unrepresented

Thilan Liyanage with Sudesh

Fernando for the Plaintiff Respondent

25.02.2014

12.03.2014

The Plaintiff Respondent (hereinafter referred to as the Respondent)

instituted an action against the 1 st to 4th Defendants in the District Court of

Panadura seeking for a declaration of title to the land described in the schedule to

the plaint and to eject the Defendants from the said land. The Defendants filed an

answer denying the averments contained in the plaint and praying for a dismissal

of the Respondent's action. The case proceeded to trial upon 12 issues. After trial,

the learned District Judge has delivered a judgement in favour of the Respondent.

Being aggrieved by the said judgment dated 29.11.2000 the 2nd defendant

Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Appellant) has preferred the present appeal

to this court.

In paragraph 03 of the petition of appeal the Appellant has set out

several grounds of appeal. It seems from the said grounds of appeal that the main

grievance of the Appellant was that the learned District Judge has failed to evaluate

the evidence adduced on behalf of the Appellant. I have examined the evidence led

,

3

at the trial and the impugned judgment. I am of the view that the Appellant has

failed to prove his case on a balance of probability. Hence I see no reason to

interfere with the judgement of the learned District Judge dated 29.11.2000.

Therefore I dismiss the appeal of the Appellant with costs.

Appeal dismissed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

t I

\1,

i ,