==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A.923/97

D.C.Galle: l0463/P

In the matter of an appeal under and in terms of Sec.754(1) of the Civil Procedure Code and Article 138(1) of the Constitution.

Punyawathie Gunaweera,

Piyadigama, Ginthota.

Plaintiff-Appellant

Vs

1) Gertrude Silva

2) Daniel Wijeratne

3)W.K.Samson (deceased)

4th Respondent Substituted

4) Walgama Kankanamge Dayasena

Defendants Respondents

Before : W.L.Ranjith Silva, J. & A.W.A.Salam, J.

Counsel: N.R.M. Daluwatte PC for the Plaintiff Appellant

S.N.Vijithsingh for the 3rd Defendant Respondent

Argued: 24-09-09,22-10-09,19-05-10.

WI Sub: 12-01-2011

Decided on: 31.03.2011

W.L.Ranjith Silva, J.

T

he Plaintiff Appellant (Appellant) instituted action for the

partition of the Land called Dikkumburagewatta alias

Thalgahawatte, which upon a commission issued by Court in

the course of the action came to be depicted as lot 1 in Plan

N 0.214 dated 18 November 1988 prepared by surveyor Anton

Samararatne which is filed of record, marked X. The report of

the surveyor is marked as Xl. The Learned District Judge after

trial dismissed the action of the Appellant holding that the 3rd .

and the 4th defendants respondents ( 3rd and 4th contesting

defendants respectively) have prescribed to the said land, the

subject matter of this action, depicted as lot 1 in the said Plan

(hereinafter referred to as the Land).

Counsel, for the 3rd Defendant Respondent who shall

hereinafter be referred to as the 3rd contesting defendant argued

that by deed bearing number 2827 Palliyaguruge Don Nicolas

Wijesiri Goonawaradane who was entitled only to a % share of

the Land gifted only his 3 I 4 share of the Land. to his children

and that the balance 1/4 share was not given to them. He

CA 923/97 Dc Gallae 10463/P Judgment 31.03.2011 W L R Silva,J. 2

contended that the balance % shares was never disposed of by

way of deeds and that there is no evidence to show that the said

Palliyaguruge Don Nicolas Wijesiri Goonawaradane was the

original owner of the Land. He contended further that there is

no evidence to show that Palliyaguruge Don Nicolas Wijesiri

Goonawaradane was the father of the transferees. Therefore he

contended that the fact that the balance 1/4 share devolved on

the Appellant and the 1st and the2nd defendants was not

substantiated and thus the Appellant and the 1st and the 2nd

contesting defendants did not acquire any rights to the

remaining 1/4 share of the Land. The Counsel contended that the

balance 1/ 4th share should be kept unallotted and the 3rd and

4th contesting defendants should be allowed to stay on that 1/4

share of the Land and enjoy their share of the Land. This

submission of the Counsel for the Respondent is misleading. I

have perused the document PI and I find that it is a deed of gift

and in that it is specifically mentioned that the donor

Palliyaguruge Don Nicolas Wijesiri Goonawaradane is gifting

his % share of the property to his grandchildren and that he

was doing so for the love and affection he had towards them.

Thus it appears that the balance 1/4 shares had devolved on the .

plaintiff and the 1 st and the 2nd defendants as claimed by the

plaintiff. The Learned Judge in his judgment has come to a

specific finding that the paper title to the Land was with the

plaintiff and the 1st and the 2nd defendant's. Therefore in all

the circumstances, especially as there is no cross appeal filed

by the 3rd and 4th contesting defendants, we find that there is

no reason to interfere with the findings of the Learned Trial

Judge that the plaintiff had proved the devolution of title on the

deeds.

CA 923/97 Dc Gallae 10463/P Judgment 31.03.2011 W L R Silva,J. 3

Prescription.

The Learned Judge has held against the Appellant on the issue

of prescription. (Issue No.8) The learned Trial Judge has held

that the 3 rd and the 4th contesting defendants have prescribed

to the Land. Therefore I now proceed to decide on the issue of

prescription.

Title by prescription is an illegality made legal due to the other

party not taking action at the proper time. I would like to quote

one of the relevant maxims namely the maxim Vigilantibus

non domientibus, Jura subvenient meaning -the laws assist

those who are vigilant, not those who sleep over their rights.

Dealing with this maxim, it is stated, in the book entitled

'Broom's Legal Maxims' Tenth Edition at page 599, I quote;

" ... for if he were negligent for a long and unreasonable time, the

law refused afterwards to lend him any assistance to recover

the possession; both to punish his neglect nam leges

vigilantibus, non dormientibus jura subvenient and also

because it was presumed that the supposed wrong-doer had in

such a length of time procured a legal title ,otherwise he would .

sooner have been sued".

The version of the contesting defendants

The version of the 3rd and 4th contesting defendants was that

in 1925 one Ginthota Kapuge Arnolis (Arnolis) commenced to

possess the Land having erected a house thereon, that in or

about 1945 the 3rd contesting defendant married Julie Nona the

daughter of the said Arnolis and came to reside on the Land

and effected repairs to the house that was already there. The

CA 923/97 Dc Gallae 10463/P Judgment 31.03.2011 W L R Silva,J. 4

3rd contesting defendant pleaded that he was in adverse,

independent and uninterrupted possession of the Land since

1945 and acquired prescriptive rights to the same, that he

never came on the Land as a licensee or as a lessee under the

mother of the Appellant, that he paid all rates/taxes in respect

of the Land and cultivated the same. The 3 rd contesting

defendant further claimed that the tombs shown in the

preliminary Plan marked as X are those of his father in law

Arnolis and mother-in-law Arnolihamy.

The Appellant's version

The Appellant's case was that the 3rd contesting defendant

came to reside on this Land with the leave and license of the

Appellants mother and after her death remained in possession

of the Land looking after it on behalf of her children, namely the

plaintiff and the 1 st and the 2nd defendants. It was contended on

behalf of the 3rd contesting defendant that, the brother of the

Appellant, the second defendant had on one occasion stated

that the 3rd contesting defendant came to reside on the Land

with the leave and license of his mother and on another·

occasion has stated that the 3rd contesting defendant came as a

tenant of his mother. In the eyes of the law it may be that there

is a vast difference between a licensee and a lessee but for a

layman such as the 2nd defendant this cannot be of any

significance and thus should not be given an undue weightage,

because in colloquial language as understood by common man

what was meant was obviously that the 3rd defendant came to

reside on the Land with the permission of their mother.

First and foremost I must deal with the findings of the Learned

Trial Judge wherein he concluded that there was no basis for

.,~ CA 923/97 Dc Gallae 10463/P Judgment 31.03.2011 W L R Silva,J. 5

the plaintiff to file this partition action as there was no

assertion that common possession was not possible, as such

the action was filed on a wrong basis.

It is no longer necessary especially after the amendment

whether it was in force at the time this action was filed or not,

for a co owner to establish that the co-ownership was not

possible. The law before the amendment was not in accordance

with the Roman Dutch Law and that was the reason why the

amendment was brought about and at present a co - owner can

file action to determine the co-ownership irrespective of the fact

that common possession was possible or otherwise. In this

regard I would like to refer to 10.3.1 Voet, - Wille on Principles

pages 310 and 311. It is no longer necessary to aver or plead

the existence of a course of action to file a partition action. This

is a right any co owner has. Filing a partition action in such

circumstances cannot and will not prejudice the rights of

parties in possession actual or constructive as the Partition Act

contains extensive provisions sufficient to guarantee their

rights, be it a co owner or a stranger, i.e. Se.49, the provisions

protecting the rights of the tenants, provisions providing for·

notices on the parties who have acquired rights etc.

It was the position of the Appellant that her father resided on

the Land adjoining the Land in dispute till his death which

occurred in 1947. Counsel for the Appellant argued that it is

highly unusual and improbable that a titleholder of a land living

in the adjoining land would allow a trespasser to come and

erect buildings on his land next door to where he is living, lying

down, without taking any action or without complaining to the

police. The position taken up by the 2nd defendant in his

evidence is that the 3rd contesting defendant sought permission

.~-CA 923/97 Dc Gallae 10463/P Judgment 31.03.2011 W L R Silva,J. 6

from his mother to stay on the Land and thus commenced to

occupy the Land in dispute with the consent of his mother

though he could not remember the exact date. Before the

arrival of the 3rd contesting defendant, another person by the

name of Alwis was in possession of this Land and that it was

only after he left that the 3rd contesting defendant came into

occupation of the subject matter.

The Learned District Judge's conclusion with regard to the

issue of prescription is mainly based inter alia on the birth

certificate of his child born unto the 3rd contesting defendant by

Julie Nona in 1956, marked as 3V3. In that the place of birth is

given as Dikkumburagewatta, Wadugeygoda. It appears that

the Learned District Judge has considered only the name of the

land Dikkumburagewatta and not the place where the land is

situated. According to most of the deeds, the Plan marked X

and also so many other documents the subject matter of this

partition action is situated at Hathuwa Piyadigama and not at

Wadugeygoda. 3V3 does not support the 3rd contesting

defendant's version; on the contrary it shows that the birth of

the child had taken place on a different land in a different·

place. Thus it appears that the Learned District Judge's

conclusions are based on wrong findings.

Plaintiffs mother complained to the headman of Piyadigama

(west) as born out by P8 on 19th of December 1959 with regard

to a boundary dispute that arose in respect of this land with a

person called Piyasena and in that the place is given as

Piyadigama. P8 speaks volumes as to the fact that she was in

control and in possession of this Land. If the 3rd contesting

defendant was in adverse possession he should have taken the

initiative to complain against the trespasser. His inaction over

CA 923/97 Dc Gallae 10463/P Judgment 31.03.2011 W L R Silva,J. 7

this dispute shows that he was merely a licensee under the

plaintiff's mother.

It is common ground that there were two tombs on this land. In

the death certificate of Porolis De Silva Wijeratne, marked as

P6, the place or the area is described as Dikkumburagewatta

Piyadigama. The death certificate of William Silva Wijeratne, the

father of the Appellant, also bears the place of burial as

Dikkumburagewatta Piyadigama. Although the 3rd contesting

defendant stated that the tombs belonged to his father-in-law

and mother-in-law he had not claimed the tombs before the

surveyor. The contesting defendants have failed to produce the

death certificates of the father-in-law and the mother-in-law in

support of their claims that the tombs were those of his father-

in-law and the mother-in-law. It is also noteworthy that

according to Xl, the report of the surveyor, the 3rd contesting

defendant has not claimed the Land or the tombs before the

surveyor. The 3rd contesting defendant had claimed only the

buildings which were counter claimed by the Appellant. Even

though there may have been many other portions of lands by

the name Dikkumburagewatta it is highly unlikely that the·

owners of those lands would have permitted the Appellant or for

that matter any other person to build tombs on their lands.

The reason why the Learned District Judge came to the

conclusion that those tombs found on the subject matter were

not those of the father and mother of the Appellant and that

their tombs were on a different land by the same name

Dikkumburagewatta was on a wrong apprehension of facts.

(Viz. That the adjoining land Dikkumburagewatta belonged to

the father of the plaintiff.)

.,-CA 923/97 Dc Gallae 10463/P Judgment 31.03.2011 W L R Silva,J. 8

The Learned District Judge formed his opinion that the Land

mentioned in P6, the death certificate referred to an adjoining

land where the plaintiffs mother lived and that it could not be

the Land, the subject matte of the partition action, for the

simple reason that the contesting defendants had stated that

there were other lands by the name Dikkumburagewatta

adjacent to the subject matter. But the Learned District Judge

has completely failed to refer to the name of the Land given on

the documents that were before him. There is no evidence

whatsoever to show that the father of the Appellant owned the

adjoining land and the evidence only showed that he was

residing on the adjacent land up to his death. The Learned

District Judge had gone on the footing that the Appellants

father was the owner of the adjoining land which formed a part

of a larger land called Dikkumburagewatta but there was no

basis for such a finding.

The evidence was led on behalf of the Appellant that after the

death of the father of the Appellant they left the village

Piyadigama and came to live in Galle, that the mother of the

plaintiff came to this land at intervals to pluck nuts and to .

attend to the Plantations. The Learned District Judge in his

judgment has looked askance at this evidence and had

considered this evidence to be preposterous. His reasoning was

that it was unlikely that the mother of the Appellant had

traveled 12 miles in order to attend to these needs. This

reasoning of the Learned Trial Judge resulting in the rejection

the evidence of the Appellant that she exercised her rights on

this land at intervals appears to me rather unfounded and

irrational. Owners of lands travel far distances to reap the

harvest and In order to attend to their Plantation.

These are common occurrences and I am unable to justify the

.~. CA 923/97 Dc Gallae 10463/P Judgment 31.03.2011 W L R Silva,1. 9

findings of the Learned District Judge on this matter. It is also

quite natural and normal for owners to maintain their lands in

far distant corners of the island either by themselves or through

their agents and there is nothing strange in such conduct. The

Learned Judge rejected this evidence simply because his vision

was clouded by coming to the erroneous conclusion that the

Appellant's mother owned the adjoining land whereas in actual

fact she was only residing there and that she was not the owner

of the adjacent land.

Assessment rates

Document marked P9 shows W.Wijertatne as the owner of the

Land and premises in suit which is No.8 Sri Dhamawansa

Mavatha, Piyadigama. The Appellant produced the tax receipts

for the payment of rates P10-P27 in respect of years of

assessmen t 1961 to 1987. The number of the house standing

on this property is number 81/ 1 and in respect of this house

the register bears the name of Samson as the owner that is the

name of the 3rd contesting defendant.

The 3rd contesting defendant has stated in his evidence that he

paid rates in respect of the Land but did not produce any

receipts for such payments. But the 3rd contesting defendant

had paid rates only in respect of the house that was on this

land that too appears to be on the basis that he owned that

house. His name appeared after 1964 probably the 3rd

contesting defendant had got his name inserted in the register

subsequently on a revision of the assessment register. Payment

of rates alone does not prove possession for the purposes of

CA 923/97 Dc Gallae 10463/P Judgment 31.03.2011 W L R Silva,J. 10

section 3 of the Prescription Ordinance. (Vide. Hassan Vs

Romanishamy 66 CLW at page 112)

The 3rd contesting defendant claimed prescriptive rights to the

Land and not in respect of the house that was on that land.

Payment of rates for the house will not enable the 3rd contesting

defendant to claim prescriptive rights to the Land in question.

Even with regard to the house, he had commenced paying rates

in1964 and the Appellant or her mother had not been aware of

the fact that the 3rd contesting defendant had started paying

rates. In Cadijar Umma Va Don Manis 40 NLR 392 it was

held that for an agent or licensee to prescribe he must change

the character of his possession by some act which is known to

the principal, the owner of the Land, that he is in adverse

possession. (Vide.

There has been no overt manifest act proved by the 3rd

defendant showing the change of character of possession till

1988 when he ordered the plaintiff not to enter the land and

this action was instituted shortly thereafter on 15.03.1988.

(Vide. pages 79 onwards of the brief). The 3rd defendant had no .

time to prescribe.

In Bandara Vs Piyasena 77 NLR at page 102 it was held, I

quote,

"A lessee is not entitled to dispute his landlord's title.

Consequently he cannot refuse to give up possession of the

property at the termination of his lease on the ground that he

acquired certain rights to the property subsequent to his

becoming the lessee and during the period of the lease. His duty

in such a case is to first restore the property to the lessor and

then litigate with him as to the ownership" (Vide also

CA 923/97 Dc Gallae 10463/P Judgment 31.03.2011 W L R Silva,J. 11

Najeemdeen and others Vs Nageshwary and others 1999-3

SLR 123, Lebbe Marikkar V sainu et al 10 NLR 339, Silva et

al V Kumarihamy 25 NLR 449, Reginold Fernando V

Pabilinahamy and Others 2005 1 SLR page 31, Siyaneris V

Jayasinghe Udenis De Silva 52 NLR 289)

Credibility of the Respondent

In this regard I would like to refer to 3V3 Birth Certificate

produced by the 3rd contesting defendant. Production of this

document was a clear attempt to mislead the Court on the issue

of prescription. When a person was born at Piyadigama the

birth certificate should bear that name as the place of birth. In

3V3 the place of birth is given as Wadugegoda. While a Court of

appeal will always attach the greatest possible weight to any

findings of facts of a judge of a court of first instance based

upon oral testimony given before that judge, it is not absolved

by the existence of these findings from the duty of forming its

own view of the facts, more particularly in a case where the

facts are of such complication that there right interpretation·

depends not only on any personal impression which a judge

may have formed by listening to the witnesses but also upon

documentary evidence, and upon inferences to be drawn from

the behaviour of these witnesses (demeanour and deportment)

both before and after the matters on which they give evidence. A

Court of Appeal in such situations is free to overrule such

findings of facts if it appears that the trial judge has

misdirected him self on the facts or that wrong inferences have

been drawn from the facts. (Vide. PereraVs Sigera Srikantha

Law Reports (volume 7) page 17 and Karunaratne Vs

Anulawathie Srikantha Law Reports (volume7) page 74)

CA 923/97 Dc Gallae 10463/P Judgment 31.03.2011 W L R Silva,J. 12

Therefore it is to be seen that an appellate court can and should

interfere even on questions of facts although those findings

cannot be branded as "perverse".

No buildings on the Land

The second defendant has mentioned in his evidence that the

house on the Land was built by his father but it appears that

none of the deeds referred to a building. In any case the initial

house that was on the Land was built of wattle and daub with a

thatched roof. Counsel for the Appellant argued that it is not

the practice to mention in deeds, such temporary structures

built of wattle and daub. In the survey report as at the time Xl

survey Plan was prepared, the particular house had been

described with the only difference, that the roof was thatched

with aluminum sheets (takaran). Therefore it is my considered

view that the absence of a reference to a house in those deeds

submitted by the Appellant cannot be taken seriously and

should not be heid against him.

Plantations

The Learned Judges findings on the Plantations are mainly

based on the fact that the 3rd contesting defendant came on the

Land in 1945. But if that finding is an erroneous one, finding

with regard to the Plantations also becomes erroneous because

the basis upon which those findings were reached was the fact

that the 3rd contesting defendant came to reside on the Land in

1945. The Land has been claimed by the plaintiff and the

second defendant before the surveyor. The Plantations too were

CA 923/97 Dc Gallae l0463/P Judgment 31.03.2011W L R Silva,J. 13

I i I 1 I· 1 !

claimed by both parties. The 2nd Defendant claimed that the

Plantations belonged to him and his mother. The Appellant had

submitted certain documents in proof of his claim to this

Plantation whereas the 3rd contesting defendant had not

submitted a single document in proof of his claim to the

Plantation.

Dispossession

A person who is in occupation of a property as a tenant licensee

or even a lessee continues to possess the Land in that capacity

unless by some overt act he manifests his intention to occupy

the said land in a different capacity. A secret act on the part of

the licensee, tenant, or lessee to possess the Land in a different

capacity shall not constitute adverse possession or change the

nature of his occupation.

If the Respondent came into possesiion with the leave the

licensee of the Appellant's mother, then he remains to be in that

position as an agent and he cannot prescribe to the Land'

unless he could establish that he changed his character

asserting that he thereafter possessed the Land adversely for

the required number of years independently, undisturbed and

uninterrupted. ( Cadija Umma Vs D.M.Harris 40 NLR 392.

Manawadu Vs Eknaligoda 3 NLR 213)

In Nawaratne Vs Jayatunge 44 NLR 517 it was held that I

quote, "the defendant entered into position of the Land in

dispute with the consent and the permission of the owner, she

cannot get rid of this character unless she the some over to act

showing an in ten tion to process adversely.

CA 923/97 Dc Gallae 10463/P Judgment 31.03.2011 W L R Silva,J. 14

In Silva Vs Kumarihami 25 NLR 449 it was held that

possession of a lessee, licensee, servant or agent is in law the

possession of the lessee or the owner.

It was the position of the Respondent that he married the

daughter of Arnolis and came into possession of this land under

him but he failed to produce the marriage certificate in proof of

this, which would have been strong prima facie evidence in his

favour if what he said was correct. According to the answer

filed by the 3rd and 4th contesting defendants the Respondent

had come to reside on this land in 1945 and not in 1943. In his

evidence the Respondent stated that he did not know Arnolis

and that the said Arnolis did not stay on the Land. The

Respondent has highlighted a particular anomaly in the

evidence of the second defendant with regard to the capacity

under which the Respondent happened to come on this land.

The second defendant being a layman would not have

understood the implications or the differences between a lessee

/ tenant or a licensee. Whatever the term used by the

defendant the fact remains that the Respondent came to reside·

on this land with the leave and license of his mother.

For the reasons I have adumbrated on the facts and the law I

hold that the Learned District Judge has not evaluated the

evidence on the issue of prescription rationally, causmg

enormous prejudice to the Appellant and the 1st and 2nd

defendants resulting in a substantial miscarriage of justice as

the entire case rested basically on the findings on the issue of

prescription. For the reasons I have enumerated in the

foregoing chapter is if the issue a new regard to prescription

was answered against the 3rd and 4th contesting defendant's the

CA 923/97 Dc Gallae 10463/P Judgment 31.03.2011 W L R Silva,J. 15

Learned District Judge would have certainly held in favour of

the Appellant and the 2nd defendant allowing and granting the

prayers to the plaint, partitioning the Land among the Appellant

and the 1st and the 2nd defendants as prayed for. For these

reason I hold that the Learned District Judge's findings with

regard to the issue of prescription and his judgment cannot be

allowed to stand. Therefore I set aside the Judgment of the

Learned District Judge dated 07-02-1997.

I am mindful of the fact that this action has been instituted as

far back as in 1988. The Judgment in the original court had

been delivered in the year 1997 and it had taken all most 13

long years for the appeal to be heard and disposed of. In this

background it would be meaningless to send this case back for

a re-trial when the misdirections on law with regard to the

application of the law relating to prescription can be

conveniently corrected by this court. Further, in the event of a

re-trial being ordered it would undoubtedly contribute towards

further delay and invariably result in the contesting defendants

being given a second bite of the same cherry by

affording them an opportunity to have recourse to an·

unnecessary trial and an appeal. In the circumstances, I am of

the view that this is a fit and proper case where the point of

contents can be answered afresh in the exercise of the appellate

jurisdiction of this Court. Hence, I answer the points of contest

as follows

No.1, 2, 3, and 4 yes

No.5 no

No.6 and 7 yes

CA 923/97 Dc Gallae 10463/P Judgment 31.03.2011 W L R Silva,J. 16

,

i j 1 I , j I I

I 1 j

i , , , I ! j ! I I 1 I I

1 } 1 ! I I • I I 1 , j 1

• No.8 and 9 no

No.10 yes

The learned District Judge IS hereby ordered to enter

interlocutory decree accordingly and proceed with the case.

Judgment of the District Court is set aside.

A ppeal allowed

A.W.A.Salam, J. I agree

!~

E rURT OF APPEAL

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

CA 923/97 Dc Gallae 10463/P Judgment 31.03.2011 W L R Silva,J. 17