==== BLOCKS ==== 

C.A 204/2008

Before

Counsel

Argued & decided on

Sisira de Abrew J.

High Court Walikada Case

No:430/06

Hettiarachchige Amila Pathum

Accused -Appellant. ~ v__j_

The Attorney-General,

Respondent.

Sisira de A brew J. &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J.

Gayan Perera with Prabha Perera for

the Accused-Appellant.

Jayantha Jayasuriya DSG for the

State.

27.02.2013.

The Accused-Appellant produced by the Prison Authorities is present

in court.

Heard both counsel m support of their respective cases. The

Accused-Appellant in this case was convicted for being m

•,

- 2-

possession of 10.5 grams of heroin. The learned High Court Judge

imposed life imprisonment on the Accused-Appellant. The facts of

this case may be briefly summarized as follows.

On 02.05.2002 around 3.45 p.m the Accused-Appellant who

came on a pillion of a motor cycle ridden by a person called Sudda

got down from the motor cycle near the petrol station at Rajagiriya.

I. P. Balachandra who was waiting at this place on an information

received by him earlier went up to the Accused-Appellant and

searched him. He found a parcel of heroin concealed in his under

garment. At the time that the Accused-Appellant was being searched

the person who rode the motor cycle (Sudda) went away shouting at

I. P. Balachandra.

On the information received from the Accused -Appellant, I. P.

Balachandra and the police party went to the house of Sudda.

According to I.P. Balachandra a member of the police party ( I.P.

Jayasinghe ) had searched the house of Sudda doors of which were

not locked. There was nobody in this house. Before the search

police party had requested the people in the neighbourhood to assist

them in searching of the house. Deepal Dammika and Nilanka

Lakshmini who were living in the neighbourhood of Sudda were

present at the time of the search. It is not clear from the evidence

•

- 3-

whether Deepal Dammika and Nilanka Lakshmini were present

inside the house of Sudda at the time of the search. However, police

party had recorded statements of Deepal Dammika and Nilanka

Lakshmini. This is the summary of the evidence of J.P. Balachandra.

I. P. Rangajeewa too corroborates the evidence of J.P. Balachandra.

Government Analyst confirms that the parcel contained 10.5 grams

of heroin.

Deepal Dammika who was called as a defence witness gave

evidence. His summary of evidence may be briefly summarized as

follows. Deepal Dammika lived in the neighbourhood of Sudda. On

the day of the incident described by the prosecution witnesses police

party came near Sudda's house with the Accused -Appellant in this

case. On the invitation of the police party, he came near the

house of Sudda and thereafter police party searched the house of

Sudda the doors of which were not locked. There was no body in

the house of Sudda. Deepal Dammika does not say whether he went

inside the house when the house was being searched. However, he

says when the police party came out of the house, a police officer

brought a parcel from the house. This was the summary of the

evidence of Deepal Dammika.

•

- 4-

The Accused -Appellant too gave evidence in this case under

oath. The summary of the Accused -Appellant's evidence may be

briefly summarized as follows. The Accused-Appellant on the day of

the incident described by the prosecution witnesses went to his

grandmother's house for the purpose of handing over a packet of

lunch to his grand mother. Accused -Appellant joined Sudda at the

grand mother's house. Sudda 1s married to Accused-Appellant's

first cousin. They both came on the motor cycle ridden by Sudda .

Accused -Appellant got down near C.W.E at Rajagiriya. ( c.®tDl.C )

At this time an officer claimed to be from the Narcotic Bureau

arrested him. Thereafter the Accused -Appellant was taken to

Sudda's place by the officers. According to him a parcel of heroin

was recovered from Sudda's house and this parcel was introduced to

him. This was the summary of the evidence of the Accused-

Appellant. Learned High Court Judge rejected both the evidence of

Deepal Dammika and the Accused -Appellant. Learned High Court

Judge rejected Deepal Dammika's evidence on two grounds. One

ground is that the fact that police officers invited Deepal Dammika to

search Sudda's house is improbable. Number two is that Deepal

Dammika was a biased witness. Learned Counsel for the Accused-

Appellant submitted that the rejection of the evidence of Deepal

Dammika was wrong. I now advert to this contention. Is the

reason number one given by the learned Trial Judge correct?

- 5 -

Prosecution witness I.P. Balachandra himself admits that police

party took the assistance of Deepal Dammika to search the house of

Sudda. The police officers have even recorded the statement of

Deepal Dammika on this matter. Then how does learned Trial Judge

conclude that the invitation by the police officers to search the house

of Sudda is improbable? In my view the said conclusion reached by

the learned Trial Judge is wrong when we consider the evidence of

the prosecution. I therefore hold that the ground number one

adduced by the learned Trial Judge cannot be accepted.

Ground number two 1s that Deepal Dammika was a biased

witness. This means that Deepal Dammika has taken the side of

the Accused-Appellant. In other words Deepal Dammika takes up

the position taken up by the Accused-Appellant. If Deepal Dhammika

is a biased witnesses the Accused should know in advance that

Deepal Dammika was going to support his position. But Accused -

Appellant did not list Deepal Dammika as a witness before the

commencement of the trial. The name of Deepal Dammika was

revealed when I.P. Balachandra gave evidence. This was on

23.03.2006, but Deepal Dammika was listed as a witness only on

28.03.2008 (Vide page 29 of the brief). When we consider all these

matters the conclusion reached by the learned Trial Judge that

Deepal Dammika was a biased witness is erroneous and cannot be

•

- 6-

accepted. Learned High Court Judge rejected the evidence of the

Accused -Appellant on the basis of the difference of time narrated

by the prosecution witnesses. According to the Accused-Appellant's

evidence, he was taken to Sudda's house between 1.30 and 2.00

p.m. But the prosecution witnesses had said they left the Police

Narcotic Bureau around 2.55 p.m. Thus the Accused says that the

time was between 1.30 and 2.00 p.m. Prosecution witnesses say

that the time was around 2.55 p.m. It was on this basis that the

learned Trial Judge rejected the accused's evidence. Is this rejection

correct? In a criminal trial the Accused is a person who is having a ~ big burden on his head. Therefore, it is reasonable to ~b~ these A. kind of mistakes. It is unfair for the trial Judge to reject the

Accused's evidence on this ground. When we consider all these

matters, I hold that the rejection of the Accused -Appellant's

evidence by the learned Trial Judge is wrong. I am pleased with the

submissions of the learned Additional Solicitor General President's

Counsel who said that the rejection of the evidence of Deepal

Dammika and the Accused -Appellant's evidence by the learned

Trial Judge was not reasonable. When I consider all these matters I

hold that the rejection of the defence evidence 1s wrong. Learned

Additional Solicitor General submitted that he could not find any

reason to reject the defence evidence. I have gone through the

defence evidence and I hold the view that there is no reason to

•

- 7 -

reject the defence evidence. If the rejection of the defence evidence by

the trial judge is wrong and there are no reasons to reject the

defence evidence it leads to a situation where court cannot reject the

defence evidence. If the court cannot reject defence evidence what

does it mean?. It means that the defence evidence has created a

reasonable doubt in the prosecution case. Then the accused should

be acquitted. I would like to consider the principles governing the

Accused's evidence. In this connection I would like to consider a

judicial decision. In Ariyadasa Vs. Queen 68 NLR page 66 His

Lordship Justice T.S. Fernando held thus (i) if the jury believed

the Accused's evidence he is entitled to be acquitted. (ii) Accused

is also entitled to be acquitted even if his evidence, though not

believed, was such that it caused the jury to entertain a reasonable

doubt in regard to his guilt. In Queen Vs. Kularatne 71 NLR page

529 Court of Criminal Appeal dealing with the dock statement of the

Accused-Appellant held thus (1) If the dock statement is believed it

must be acted upon (2) If the dock statement raises a reasonable

doubt in their minds about the prosecution case, the defence must

succeed. (3) Dock statement of one accused should not be used

against the other accused. After considering the said legal literature

I, for the benefit of the legal practitioners and the trial judges m

this country set down the following guide lines with regard to the

defence evidence.

•

- 8 -

(i) If the Accused's evidence is believed it must be acted upon

(ii) If the Accused's evidence creates a reasonable doubt in the

prosecution case his defence must succeed.

I have earlier held that the accused-appellant should be acquitted.

For the above reasons, I set aside the conviction of the Accused -

Appellant and the sentence and acquit him of the charge for

which he was convicted.

Appeal allowed.

P.W.D.C Javathilaka. I agree.

Vkg/-

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL