==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CA (PHC) 102/2011

Kankanam Pathiranage Ariyawathie, Near the Viharamaha Devi Seya, Kandasurindu Gama, Katharagama.

Respondent -Petitioner-Appellant-Petitioner -Vs- 1. Divisional Secretary, Divisional Secretariat office, Katharagama. 2. Hon. Attorney General, Attorney General Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent-Respondent-Respondents

1

f

CA(PHC)102-2011 High Court(Hambanthota)HCRA46-2009

Before K.T. Chitrasiri, J

W.M.M. MaUnie Gunaratne, J

Counsel Asthika Devendra with Lilan Warusavithana

for the Petitioner-Appellant.

Nayomi Kahavita SC for the Respondent.

Argued &

Decided on 01.10.2014

K. T. Chitrasiri, J

This is an appeal seeking to set aside the judgement dated 07.06.2011 of

the learned High Court Judge in Hambantota and also to have the order

dated 18.09.2009 of the learned Magistrate of Hambantota vacated. The

learned Magistrate having allowed an application filed by the 1 st

respondent, made order to evict the appellant from the premises in suit.

Being aggrieved by this order, the appellant made an application to the

High Court to have the said order set-aside. Appellant, in the High

Court has taken up the position that the application made to the

Magistrate Court and the affidavit filed along with the said application

were not in conformity with the provisions contained in the State Land

i. f ! I II II

i

f IIi

tt

t, !

t t

f i I

2

(Recovery of Possession)(Amendment) Act No.58 of 1981 and State

Lands(Recovery of Possession) (Amendment) Act No. 29 of 1983. Those

two Enactments stipulates the manner in which the application and the

affidavit to be filed in such an action and the matters that are to be

included thereof.

Admittedly, the application and the affidavit filed in the Magistrate Court

is not in conformity with the requirements mentioned in the aforesaid

amendments made to the State Lands Recovery of Possession Act.

Despite those infirmities, The learned High Court Judge has held that

the order of the learned Magistrate should not be disturbed as those

amounts to technical defects.

Learned counsel for the appellant referring to the case of Kandaiya Vs.

Abeykon (1986 (3) CALR page 41) submits that this court on the same

question of law has held that those matters brought into the statute book

by the said amendments are to be followed in strict compliance.

In the circumstances, the issue in this appeal is to determine whether

the non conformity with the matters referred to in the State Lands

Recovery of Possession (Amendment) Act No.58 of 1981 and the State

Lands Recovery of Possession (Amendment) Act No.29 of 1983 are to be

considered as mandatory or not. In the aforesaid decision namely

Kandiah Vs. Abeykoon,(supra) it had been held thus:

3

The objections are validly taken and go beyond mere technically. The operation of the Act and its provisions could well have a

serious impact upon proprietary rights. Upon a true construction of the Statute as a whole the forms of notice, application and affidavit had to be in strict compliance with those which the legislature has thought important enough to set out in the schedules before the jurisdiction of the Magistrate to eject a person in possession or occupation could be exercised.

The above authority shows that it is mandatory to mention that the land

in question is a state land as to the opinion of the person who makes

that application. Also, it is necessary to mention the place where the

affidavit was deposed to, in the jurat to the affidavit filed with the said

application. In this instance the application and the affidavit filed in the

Magistrate Court are marked as "P2" and are found at pages 59 and 61

in the appeal brief.

Those two documents do not contain the matters required to have

mentioned that were brought in by the two amendments made in the Act

No.58 of 1981 and in the Act No.29 of 1983. As decided before in

Kandaih Vs.Abeykoon(supra), we are also of the view that those

requirements are to be considered as mandatory. Hence those should

not be considered as mere technicalities. Therefore, we decide that the

learned High Court Judge misdirected himself when he decided that

those are technical in nature.

For the aforesaid reasons, this appeal is allowed. Judgment dated

07.06.2011 of the Learned High Court Judge of Hambantota is set aside.

4

The order dated 18.09.2009 of the Learned Magistrate is also set aside.

For the aforesaid reasons this Appeal is allowed.

Learned State Counsel moves that the state be allowed to proceed to

recover possession of the land in quiestion after following the proper

procedure laid down in the law. The Judgment delivered today is on the

issue of procedure that is to be followed when making applications under

the State Land Recovery of Possession Act. We have not considered the

merits of the case. Therefore this will not have any effect for the state to

take action under the law, following the proper procedure. However,

learned counsel for .the appellant moves to reserve his right, to raise

objections in the event another application is filed.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

W.M.M. Malinie Gunaratne, J

I agree

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Naj-