==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

Court of Appeal No: CALA 26012005

District Court of Gampaha No: 23663/P

Before: Eric Basnayake J

K. T. Chitrasiri J

Counsel: M.H.B. Morais for the 4th Defendant-Petitioner

S.A.D.S. Suraweera for the Plaintiff-Respondent

Argued on: 15.1.2010

In the matter of an application for leave to appeal

W .L.P. H. Somasiri Wijesinghe

4th Defendant-Petitioner

Vs.

W.L.P. Victor Somasiri Wijesinghe

Substituted Plaintiff-Respondent & several other Defendant-Respondents

Written submissions tendered on: For the 4th defendant-petitioner-2.1 0.2007

For the substituted plaintiff respondent-l3.5.200S

Decided on: 25.S.2011

Eric Basnayake J

When this case was taken up for trial in the District Court of Gampaha on lS.2.2005, the

4th defendant-petitioner (4th defendant) raised an objection as to the maintainability of this

action. The 4th defendant stated that this case was once dismissed and therefore cannot be

restored back in to the trial roll. The learned Judge overruled this objection. The 4th

1

defendant filed this leave to appeal application to have the order dated 22.6.2005 of the

learned Additional District Judge of Gampaha set aside. Leave was granted by this court

on 16.6.2009.

This is a partition case. This case was originally fixed for trial for 22.6.1998. On this day

the substituted-plaintiff-respondent (plaintiff) was absent and unrepresented. The court

found that the plaintiff was not diligently prosecuting this action. None of the other

parties present in court were inclined to prosecute the action. Hence the court dismissed

the case with costs and ordered to cancel the lis pendens.

On 9.10.1998 the plaintiff filed papers to vacate the dismissal under section 87 (3) of the

Civil Procedure Code. The 4th defendant filed objections. On 15.2.2001 a settlement was

arrived at and the 4th defendant withdrew the objections. Thereafter the case was restored

back into the trial roll. Again on 29.11.2002 the 4th defendant filed a petition and an

affidavit (P7 & 8) and moved court to dismiss the action on the same ground. However

the case was fixed for trial and this objection was taken at the commencement of the trial.

The learned Judge after inquiry by order dated 22.6.2005 rejected the objection for the

reason that the court had already inquired in to this matter and made an order on

15.2.2001 allowing the case to be restored back into the trial roll. The learned Judge had

observed that on 15.2.2001 the 4th defendant had withdrawn the identical objection. The

learned Judge stated that the 4th defendant is bound by the order made on 15.2.2001 and

is not entitled to re-agitate on the same matter. In his petition dated 29.11.2002 the 4th

defendant does not disclose what happened in court on 15.2.2001. In the present

application dated 8.7.2005 and the affidavit and in the written submissions tendered to

the Court of Appeal the 4th defendant does not disclose the fact that this matter was once

inquired into and a settlement was arrived at.

The learned counsel for the plaintiff submits that the dismissal was set aside on an

application made by the plaintiff under section 87 (3) of the CPC. The learned counsel

submits that the Partition Law provides for dismissal of the action for non-prosecution.

2

However it does not make provision similar to section 87 of the epe where a dismissal is

due to the absence of the plaintiff on a trial date due to a reasonable cause. The learned

counsel submits that under those circumstances parties are permitted to resort to the epe

under section 79 of the Partition Law. Section 79 states as follows:-

79. In any matter or question of procedure not provided for in this law, the procedure laid down in the epe in a like matter or question shall be followed by the court, if such procedure is not inconsistent with the provisions of this law.

Section 87 of the epe makes provision for the court to restore the case back in to the roll

if after dismissal the plaintiff proves to the satisfaction of court that his absence was due

to a reasonable cause. Section 87 is as follows:-

87 (l): Where the plaintiff .... make default in appearing on the day fixed for the trial, the court shall dismiss the plaintiffs action. (2) not reproduced. (3) The plaintiff may apply within a reasonable time from the date of dismissal, by way of petition supported by affidavit, to have the dismissal set aside, and if on the hearing of such application ... the court is satisfied that there was reasonable grounds for the non-appearance of the plaintiff, the court shall make order setting aside the dismissal..

The learned counsel for the 4th defendant submits that once a partition case is dismissed it

cannot be set aside. He mentioned the case of Paulusz vs. Perera (34 N.L.R.438) and

Dingiri Amma vs. Appuhamy (72 N.L.R. 347) in support of his argument. In Paulusz vs

Perera the learned District Judge dismissed an action as he found some documents

marked not tendered. He sets aside his order of dismissal after realizing that the

documents were in the record. In appeal De Silva A.J. held (at pg.440) that "the principle

of law that a court may not set aside its own order is well established and rigorously

enforced. It is a very important principle as on it depends the finality of judicial

decisions. If a Judge can review his own decision, there is no limit to the number of times

upon which he might do so or upon which he may be invited by the parties so to do. He

may be asked to do so not only where there is obvious hardship but also wherever a point

3

that is arguable arises, because it is impossible to draw a clear line between the one case

and the other".

The setting aside of the dismissal in that case was not based on section 87 of the CPC. In

Dingiri Amma's case the question was whether an order of dismissal would operate as

res judicata in a subsequent action brought by the plaintiff for partition of the same land.

In these two cases the question was not with regard to section 87 of the CPC and is

therefore not relevant. The present case is based on section 87 (3) of the CPC which

make provision for restoration. The dismissal was set aside after the plaintiff showed a

reasonable cause for his absence. Apart from that this matter was already adjudicated.

For the above reasons this appeal is without merit and is dismissed with costs.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

K.T. Chitrasiri J

I agree

Judge of the Court of appeal

4