==== BLOCKS ==== 

,\ /

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

Aloysius Lazarus (Deed)

No.7, Uluporanuwa Road

C.A.No. 1212/2000(F) Kandana

D.C.Negombo 2868/L Plaintiff

Vs

Leo Terrance Lazarus

No.7 Uluporanuwa Road, Kandana

Presently at

No. 669 A.A.Nass Ice Plant

Manama, Bahrain

By her Attorney

D.J.M.Dona Dorathi Ranjani Lazarus,

No.7 Uluporanuwa Road, Kandana'

Substituted Plaintiff

Vs

Naullage Admund Silva,

No.162, Halpe Mawatha, Kandana

Defendant

AND BETWEEN

{ I !

f II

2

BEFORE:

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Naullage Admund Silva

No. 162 Halpe Mawatha, Kandana

Defendant-Appellant

Vs

Leo Terrance Lazarus,

No.7 Uluporanuwa Road, Kandana

.. Presently at

No, 669, A.A.Nase Ice Place,

Manama, Bahrain

By her Attorney

S.J.M.Dona Dorathi Ranjani Lazarus

No,7 Uluporanuwa Road, Kandana

Substituted-Plaintiff-Respondent

Deepali Wijesundura J

M.M.A. Gaffoor J.,

Dr. Sunil Coo ray for the Substituted-Defendant-

Appellant

H.D.J.Bandara for the Substituted Plaintiff-Respondent

26.03.2015

29.09.2015

3

Gaffoor l,

The Plaintiff instituted this action against the Defendant stating that

he is entitled to the land which is the subject matter of this action by Deed

No. 2201 dated 28.12.1976 and attested by lA.E.Amaratunga, Notary

Public, which land he had transferred to the Defendant by Deed No.

2379{P3} dated 17.02.1977 and attested by lA.E. Amaratunga, Notary

Public, as a conditional Transfer with the condition that for the money he .. obtained, i.e. Rs. 2000/- to pay an interest of 15% per annum and to

redeem the land within 5 years. The Plaintiff further says that the

Defendant is holding the land in trust for him and asking for a declaration

to that effect and to order the Defendant to re-transfer the said land by

executing a conveyance in his name.

The defendant has filed his answer denying the averments in the

Plaint and stating that the said transfer of the property was an outright

transfer and the Defendant is seeking for a declaration that he be declared

entitled to the said land and to dismiss the Plaintiff's action.-

The main contention of the Plaintiff is that he had no intention to

dispose of the beneficial interest in the said property in dispute though the

same was an outright transfer and the Deed P3 was executed as a security

for a loan of Rs. 2000/- he obtained from the Defendant and that the value

of the property is much more than Rs. 2000/-.

The Plaintiff having died after the trial was over, the substituted

Plaintiff has been substituted in his place.

J I I ; -

\ , J

J I I ! I

~ I I I I I

I ( . I I I i

4

At the trial, three Admissions were recorded and the Plaintiff has

raised 1-5 Issues and the Defendant has raised 6-10 Issues. Issues 1-3 are

raised on the basis that the Plaintiff is the owner of the property and that

he transferred it to the Defendant for Rs. 2000/-as a loan to be paid

within 5 years together with 15% interest and that the Plaintiff and his

family are living on this property. Issue NoA, is on the basis that the

defendant is holding the property in trust and to re-transfer the property

.. and that the transaction is subject to the principle of laesio enormis. The

Issues 6-10 raised by the Defendant deal with his right on P3 and that he

sent a notice to quit to the Plaintiff to vacate the property and if not to pay

Rs. 50/- as damages per month.

The trial Judge has answered the Issues 1-5 in the affirmative and 6-

10 in the negative and entered judgment in favour of the Plaintiff. The

Defendant has appealed against this judgment to this Court. Both parties

have filed their written submissions.

At the trial the Plaintiff has given evidence that when he retired he

got a sum of Rs. 14,000/- and out of which he had bought this land for Rs.

8500/- by Deed No. 2201(P2) and after two months, he was short of some

money for his chillie business and when he approached the Defendant to

get a loan of Rs. 2000/-, he wanted the Plaintiff execute a Deed as an

outright transfer with the understanding to repay the said Rs. 2000/- with

15% interest, within 5 years.

The Defendant has said in his evidence that he did not know anything

about this transaction and it was effected by his brother and when P3 was

5

executed he was at Diyatalawa and his mother only gave the money to his

brother to effect the transfer, and that he came to know that an action is

filed against him after he received summons in this case. The trial Judge has

rejected his evidence.

The question arises whether when a party alleges the transaction is

based on constructive trust while the other party has proper title, what are

the attendant circumstances available to prove constructive trust.

Section 83 of the Trusts Ordinance states:

'When the owner of the property transfers or bequeaths it and

it cannot reasonably be inferred consistently with the attendant

circumstances that he intended to dispose beneficial interest therein,

the transferee or legatee must hold such property for the benefit of

the owner or his legal representatives. 1/

The following attendant circumstances must be considered in this

case, that the Plaintiff did not intend to dispose of the beneficial interest to

the Defendant when he transferred the property by P3:

i) The Plaintiff neither handed over vacant possession of the

property nor did the Defendant take any steps to get the

possession thereof. The Plaintiff and his family are still in

possession of the property as they were before the said

transfer. This indicates that the Plaintiff never intended to

handover possession of the property;

6

ii) The payment of the stamp fee and the Notary's fee on the

execution of P3 were paid by the Plaintiff and not by the

Defendant. It is the normal practice that when a person

purchases a property he should pay the Notary's fee and the

stamp duty because the Deed is executed in his favour and to

his benefit. Only in the case ofa Lease Agreement, both the

Lessor and Lessee share the charges. It is evidence in this case,

that the Defendant was not present at the time of the

execution of P3 and his brother only was present and there is

no evidence that the Defendant's brother had paid these

charges

iii) The Plaintiff has given evidence that he bought the property

by P2 for a sum of Rs. 8500/- on 28.12.1976 and when he ran

short of capital for chilie business in February 1977 obtained

Rs. 2000/- as a loan from the Defendant. It is beyond any

imagination that a person who bought the property for Rs.

8500/- cannot sell the same property for Rs. 2000/- in two

months time. There is no evidence in this case that the value

of this property has dropped drastically to Rs. 2000/-. If the

Plaintiff actually intended to sell the property, he should

have sold it for a higher amount than Rs. 8500/-. ;

iv) The Plaintiff has led satisfactory evidence to the present value

of the property. The evidence of Warnakulapatabendige

Charles Perera, the Valuer has said that the value of this

property in February 1977 was Rs. 13,850/-, the particulars of I t l

~ tf (

1

7

which is stated in his Report marked IIp1" According to this

Report the value of the property in October 1984 is Rs.

34,656/- It is therefore unbelievable to say that the Plaintiff

agreed with the Defendant to sell the property for a small

amount of Rs. 2000/-. I am therefore of the view that the

consideration mentioned in the Deed No. 2279{P3) Rs. 2000/-

is utterly inadequate and cannot be accepted as the real value

.. of the property and the property was transferred in trust. We

are therefore satisfied that there is ample evidence to justify

the finding of the trial Judge that the trust alleged in

paragraphs 8 and 9 of the Plaint was established. The above

attendant circumstances show that the Plaintiff did not intend

to dispose of the beneficial interest in the property

tra nsfe rred.

In the case of Piyasena vs Don Vansue 1977(2) Sri Lanka L.R.

311, it was held that IIEven though a transfer is in the form of

an outright sale, it is possible to lead parole evidence to show

that facts exist from which it could be inferred that the real

transaction was either:

i) Money lending, when the land is transferred as a security as in this case; or ii) The transfer in trust, in such cases Section 83 of the Trust Ordinance applies

In this case, in addition to constructive trust, the Plaintiff also

pleaded unjust enrichment on the basis of laesio enormis. The trial

Judge has answered Issue 4(a) on unjust enrichment in the

([

8

affirmative and therefore he has omitted the question of laesio

enormis as it (did not arise' in view of the answer to 4(a).

In the case of PaJigu Menika vs Mudianse 50 NLR 566,

Basnayake, 1, (as he was then) held that, II"When the question is

whether a transaction is a mortgage or transfer with an undertaking

to re-sell within the specified time, the stipulation of interest and the

retention of possession by the vendor are circumstance which gQ long

way to negative the claim that the Deed is a factum de

retrovendendo. If there is any doubt the Court should leave it to the

side which claims the transaction to be a mortgage."

In all the circumstance of this case, I hold that the Plaintiff had

never intended to part with the property in suit and the Deed P3 was

executed as a security for the loan of Rs. 2000/- which the Plaintiff

had obtained.

For the foregoing reasons, we see no reason to interfere with

the Judgment of the District Court. Accordingly, we dismiss the

appeal and affirm the Judgment of the trial Judge and make no order

as to costs.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

Wijesundera 1,

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

•iII i [II

r

!

I

[

t !

(