==== BLOCKS ==== 

..

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. Writ. 834/2010

In the matter of an application for

Mandates in the nature of Writs of Certiorari and Prohibition under and in terms of Article 140 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

Bharti Airtel Lanka (private) Limated No. 598, Elvitigala Mawatha,

Colombo 5.

Petitioner

Vs

1. Prasantha Sampath, Chairman, Biyagama Pradeshiya Sabha, Delgoda. 2. Biyagama Pradeshiya Sabha, Delgoda. 3. Telecommunication Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka, No.276, Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 8. 4. Hon. Attorney General, Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

Respondents

Before

Counsel

Supported on Written Submissions on:

Decided on

UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

2

SATHYA HETTIGE, PCJ, PCA UPALY ABEYRATHNE,J.

Rias Ammen for the Petitioner

Sumathi Darmawardene SSC for the 3rd and 4 th Respondents

G.R.D. Obeysekera with Dilan Perera for the 2nd Respondent

25.05.2011 27.05.2011

01.06.2011

This application has been made by the Petitioner seeking mandates in

the nature of a writ of certiorari to quash the decision of the 1 st and/or 2nd

Respondents contained in the letter dated 11.09.2009 marked P 6 and a writ of

prohibition restraining the 1 st and/or/2nd Respondents from preventing the

petitioner from constructing the base station at Dhewamitha place Obawattha

Heiyanthuduwa Biyagama.

The petitioner is a limited liability company incorporated under the Act. He

is a 100% owned subsidiary of Bharathi Airtel Ltd of India. The Petitioner was

issued a Cellular Mobile License by H.E president of Sri Lanka under the Sri

Lanka Tele communication Act No 25 of 1991 as amended. Accordingly the

Petitioner became the 5th Mobile operator in Sri Lanka. The petitioner's company

was incorporated in Sri Lanka in 2007 with the objective of providing GSM

3

Mobile Tele communication services throughout Sri Lanka. The Petitioner state

that for this purpose the Petitioner was required to make and investment of US $

200 million (approximately Rs 23 billion) and the Petitioner has already invested

Rs 13.5 billion.

The petitioner state that base stations (sometimes referred to as Tele

communication towers) are essential for Mobile phone users to have mobile Tele

communication connectivity. Accordingly the Petitioner has entered into an

agreement with Board of Investment of Sri Lanka. According to the terms of the

said agreement the Petitioner is required to set up and operate a digital Cellular

Mobile Communication system and for that purpose the Petitioner has already

erected about 861 base stations throughout Sri Lanka.

Accordingly the petitioner has commenced to construct a base station at

Dhewamitha place, Obawattha, Heiyanthuduwa, Biyagama. The Petitioner stated

that prior to commence the construction of the said base station he obtained

approvals from the Civil Aviation Authority, Central Environment Authority,

Urban Development Authority, Ministry of Defense Public Security Law and

Order and the 1 st, 2nd and the 3rd Respondents. The said letters of approval has been

produced with the petition to this Court marked P 3 (a) to P 3 (i).

Accordingly the Petitioner has commenced constructions of the said base

station and has completed construction up to the stage of erection of concrete

foundations for the said base station. In the meanwhile the petitioner has received a

letter dated 11.09.2009 sent by the 1st and/or the 2nd Respondent requesting the

petitioner to suspend the construction of the said base station. Said letter has been

produced to this court with the petition marked P6.

4

The petitioner submitted to this court that the decision contained in P 6 is

ultra vires and contrary to the Urban Development Authority Law. The Petitioner

contended that there is no provision in the Urban Development Authority Act to

suspend such permit granted under said law. Hence the Petitioner sought a mandate

in the nature of writ of Certiorari quashing the said decision contained in the letter

P6.

The learned counsel for the 3rd and the 4th Respondents did not raise any

objections to the application made by the Petitioner. He submitted that the 3rd and

the 4th Respondents have given their approvals to the constructions of the said base

station.

The learned counsel for the 2nd Respondent objected to the Petitioner's said

application and prayed for a dismissal of the application. Learned counsel

submitted that since all the approvals/ observations made by the relevant

Authorities have expired, this court has no jurisdiction to permit the Petitioner to

have and maintain this application. He further submitted that this court cannot go

into the matter since the necessary parties are not before court. The learned counsel

for the 2nd Respondent further submitted that a public officer who issues an order

has the authority to amend, vary, rescind or revoke such order under section 18 of

the Interpretation Ordinance.

It is important to note that the 3rd and/or the 4th Respondent had failed to

hear the Petitioner prior to the issuance of P 6. It is apparent from P 6 that the

decision contained in P 6 is not a decision of the 3rd and/or the 4th Respondent. P 6

has been sent upon an order given by a politician. It is apparent from the P 6 that

, I t I l I t i I I ! ! t t I I ! r

~ r f i ! I I l , j' ! I

5

the 3rd and/or the 4th Respondent has merely carried out the order of the politician.

Hence it is apparent from the decision contained in P 6 that it is not valid decision

of the 3rd and/or the 4th Respondent. Therefore the decision contained in P 6 is

illegal and ultra vires the provisions of the Urban Development Authority Act.

The learned counsel for the Petitioner further submitted that since the permit

has been granted under section 8J (1) of the Urban Development Authority Act, the

3rd and/or the 4th Respondent has no jurisdiction to suspend such permit without

hearing the Petitioner. The learned counsel further submitted that there is no

provision in the Urban Development Authority Act to suspend a development

permit which has been issued under the said law. The learned counsel for the 2nd

Respondent submitted that since the 3rd and/or the 4th Respondents have acted

within their power and authority, the said order is not amenable to writ jurisdiction

of this court.

I have carefully considered the said submissions of the learned counsels.

When I consider P 6 it appears to me that the 3rd and/or the 4th Respondents have

failed to adhere to the rules of natural justice. The 3rd and/or the 4th Respondents

have failed to hear the petitioner before the issuance of the letter dated 11.09.2009

marked P 6. On this ground alone the Petitioner is entitled for the relief claimed

for. In the said circumstances I am of the view that the said document P 6 is illegal

and ultra vires the powers of the 3rd and/or the 4th Respondent.

F or the aforesaid reasons I make order to issue a mandate in the nature

of a Writ of Certiorari quashing the decision of the 1 st and the 2nd Respondents

contained in the letter dated 11.09.2009 marked P 6. Further I make order to issue

a mandate in the nature of a Writ of Prohibition restraining the 1 st and the 2nd

6

Respondents from preventing the Petitioner from constructing the aforesaid base

station at Dhewamitha place Obawattha Heiyanthuduwa Biyagama. The

petitioner's application for a writ of Certiorari and a writ of Prohibition is allowed

with costs.

Application for writ allowed

Judge of the Court of Appeal

SA THY A HETTIGE, PCJ, PCA

I agree.

PresIdent of the C rt of Appeal