==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Dinesh Chathuranga Jayamanna

ACCUSED-APPELLAN"I:

C.A. 19/2011

H.C. Negombo 104/2006

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

ARGUED ON:

DECIDED ON:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

P. R. Walgama J.

Vs.

Hon. Attorney General

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo 12.

COMPLAINANT-RESPONDNET

Indika Mallawarachchi for the Accused-Appellant

Hiranjan Peiris S.S.c. for the Complainant-Respondent

17.11.2014

20.11.2014

1

2

GOONERATNE J.

The two Accused were indicted in the High Court of Negombo on a

charge of attempted murder, an offence punishable under Section 300 of the

Penal Code. The 2

nd Accused pleaded guilty to the charge and he was

sentenced to 2 years rigorous imprisonment, which term of imprisonment was

suspended for a period of 10 years. The 2

nd Accused was also fined a sum of

Rs. 1000/- which carries a default sentence of 4 moths simple imprisonment

and the learned High Court Judge ordered a sum of Rs. 10,000/- as

compensation payable to the victim which carries a default sentence of 6

months simple imprisonment.

It was submitted on behalf of the 1st Accused-Appellant by the

learned counsel for the Appellant that her client was given a custodial

sentence after trial, and her client being a Revenue Officer of the Negombo

Pradeshiya Sabha was unwilling at that time to plead guilty before the High

Court. The learned counsel for the 1st Accused-Appellant at the outset of the

hearing of this appeal, indicated to this court that her client does not wish to

3

contest the conviction, but would urge this court to consider a lenient

sentence since her client's involvement in the incident does not warrant a

custodial sentence as the main perpetration of the crime and the incident was

the 2

nd Accused. The learned counsel for the 1

st Accused-Appellant states her

client was sentenced to 5 years rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs.

10000/- was imposed by the learned High Court Judge which carries a default

sentence of 6 months rigorous imprisonment and was also ordered to pay

compensation to the injured party in a sum of Rs. 80,000/- and in default of

payment, 1 year rigorous imprisonment.

The testimony of the injured/victim indicates that he came by bus

after work and got down from the bus near the Kandana police station. It was

about 6.00 p.m, when the injured arrived near the police station. Having got

down from the bus he had to proceed about another mile to get to his house,

and he used a cycle to get home from the point of the police station, Kandana.

When he reached closer to his house he saw the two Accused persons leaning

on to a wall. Thereafter the injured party went near them and inquired about a

previous pelting of stones at his house by the 2

nd Accused Lakshman. This

t

~

I

J I I

I ,

4

resulted in an exchange of words and an exchange of blows between the 2nd

Accused and the injured party. At a certain point the 2nd Accused fell on the

ground and the 1st Accused-Appellant had to hold the injured party and put his

arms round his body to prevent further assault being dealt on the injured

party. At that moment itself the 2

nd Accused had dealt several blows and had

kicked the injured on the stomach. Evidence does not reveal any blows being

dealt by the Accused-Appellant to the injured party. The main perpetrator of

the incident was the 2

nd Accused.

The above facts were not disputed by learned Senior State Counsel.

Material placed before this court does not support a custodial sentence. In fact

the Accused-Appellant had acted in a way to prevent any blows being dealt to

either the 2nd Accused and the injured party. He seems to have been an

innocent bystander who was compelled and drawn towards an unwanted

commotion. Considering the trivial nature of the offence involving the

Appellant and the extenuating circumstances under which the offence was

committed we are of the view that it is inexpedient to impose any punishment.

I

JIt I

5

As such we discharge the Accused-Appellant conditionally in terms of

Section 306(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act as Amended, and direct

that he enter into a Bond without sureties, to be of good behavior for a period

of 3 years. We also direct that he pays state costs in a sum of Rs. 1500/-.

Subject to above variation on sentence the Appeal is partly allowed.

~ fl Cruv~g~e

~J(.-~' JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.R. Walgama

I agree.

~.,R,~~

JUDGE OF THE COUWOF APPEAL

--------

t

f

IjI ,

II

I I