==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

C.A.205/2009

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

J.M. Nuhuman,

Accused-Appellant

Vs.

The Attorney General,

Respondent

H.C. Trincomalee Case No: HCEP2235j04(T)

Sisira J. de Abrew,J. (Acting PICA) &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka,J.

Isuru Somadasa for the Accused-Appellant.

Wasantha Nawaratne Bandara D.S.G. for the respondent.

07.02.2014

*********

Sisira J. de Abrew,J.(Acting PICA)

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases. The accused-

appellant in this case was convicted of the murder of a man named Ismail

Lebbe Izzadeen and was sentenced to death. Being aggrieved by the said

1

i i l ,II

fI l

conviction and the sentence he has appealed to this Court. Facts of this

case may be briefly summerized as follows: The accused is the brother-in-

law of the deceased. On the day of the incident when the father of the

accused was sleeping in the house he woke up as he heard some shouts of

small children. When he went near the room of the deceased person who

was also living in the same house, the accused came and told that the

deceased person in this case had assaulted him. When (the father of the

accused person) went to the room of the deceased person he found the

deceased person with bleeding injuries. The accused- appellant was also

living in the same house. When the Police came to the scene, the accused-

appellant handed over a knife to the investigating Police Officer. The Police

Officer observed blood stains on the blade of the knife. Government

Analyst by his report marked P7, confirms that there was human blood on

the blade of the knife. The accused-appellant in his evidence took up the

defence of an alibi but his father gave evidence and stated that he was in the

house. Abubakar Ikbal who was living in the same neighbourhood came to

the scene of crime on hearing the shouts of the people. Then he saw the

accused-appellant in the house. When we consider the evidence led at the

trial, the evidence given by the accused-appellant cannot be accepted and is

not capable of creating a reasonable doubt in the prosecution case. We hold

that the learned trial Judge was correct when he rejected the evidence of

the accused-appellant. In our view the prosecution has proved its case

beyond reasonable doubt. There are no grounds to mterfere with the

judgment of the learned trial Judge. We therefore refuse to interfere with

2

,I

1!III

~

~i1Ii !!,f,I

~ , ,

~ ,

the judgment of the learned trial Judge. We affirm the conviction and the

sentence and dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

Acting President of the Court of Appeal

P.W.D.C. Jayathilake,J.

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Jmrj-

3

i

,t