==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

In the matter of an application for mandate

In the nature of Writ of Certiorari under

Article 140 of the Constitution of the

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

02. Hewa Pedige Raasinghe,

No.30/16, Kegalla Road,

Daluggala,

Rambukkana.

And 25 others.

Petitioners

C.A. Writ Application No.SOS/2011 Vs.

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued on

Written Submission on

Decided on

04. Hon. Attorney-General,

Attorney-General's Department,

Colombo 12.

And 03 others.

Respondents

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

Jagath Abeynayake,

for the Petitioner,

Arjuna Obeysekera,

for the Respondents

28.05.2012

10.09.2012 and 25.09.2012

21.01.2013

; I

f ! I I I I I j l .l I

3

examination held for both limited and open candidates. The Petitioners further

contended that nowhere in the entire exercise of conducting the examination the

number of vacancies lie in the force of Agricultural Service was revealed by the

Respondent, and that holding a single competitive examination for the purpose of

recruitment of Agricultural Officers was in violation of the Minute of the Sri Lanka

Agricultural Service, and also in terms of notification published in Gazette

No.1627 marked PS.

The Respondents submitted that although the Service Minute refers to the

holding of 2 examinations under the open competitive and limited categories, the

Service Minute does not require separate question papers to be set for each

category. The syllabus for the common question paper, whether it is for open or

limited category, is the same. Thus one common question paper was set for the

open and limited category. Two separate examinations were in fact held on

23/04/2011 and 24/04/2011 under the open and limited categories and the

marks as well as the selection of candidates were carried out separately under the

open and limited categories.

In the above circumstances the Petitioners cannot claim that they were

prejudiced by having the same question papers for the 2 examinations. In fact,

the Respondents have held two separate examinations and they were considered

separately and selections were carried out separately under open and limited

categories, depending on the results of the examinations and the interviews that

were conducted subsequently. In these circumstances the Petitioners cannot

claim that the said examination is contrary to the Service Minute and/or

unreasonable in the given circumstances. In these circumstances the Petitioner is

4

not entitled for a Writ of Certiorari to quash the said decision and, therefore, this

Court dismisses this Application without cost.

President of the Court of Appeal

2

S.Sriskandarajah, J,

The Petitioners in this Application have sought a Writ of Certiorari quashing

the competitive examination held on 23rd and 24th April 2010, for the recruitment

of Agricultural Officers to the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service following the gazette

notification contained in document marked PS. The Petitioners submitted that

Agricultural Instructors do not fall into the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service. The

Agricultural Instructors to enroll into the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service, they

should first be recruited to the post of Agricultural Officer, which is a position in

Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service. The recruitment to the said

Sri Lanka Agricultural Service is governed by the regulations set out in the Minute

published in Gazette Extra-ordinary No.1235/21 of gth May 2002. The Petitioners

contended that in terms of the said Minute, 2 separate competitive examinations

were scheduled to be held by the Commissioner of Examinations for the

recruitment of Agricultural Officers placed in Class II Grade II level of the said Sri

Lanka Agricultural Service. The Petitioners further submitted that the purpose of

holding a separate limited examination for the candidates already employed in

the field is to recognize the service they have rendered already and difficulties

they may face in preparing to sit the examination which may well be set with

some weight on the academic aspect. The Petitioners contended that they

applied for the said examination with a view to sit the limited competitive

examination since the Petitioners were eligible for the same in view of having 5

years of experience in the capacity of Agricultural Instructors. A competitive

examination was held on 24th and 25th April 2010, and the Petitioners found that

instead of 2 competitive examinations, there was only one common competitive