==== BLOCKS ==== 

1

IN THE COURT OF APEAL OF THE DEMOCRA TICS OCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

C.A. (Writ) Application No.51/2010

In the matter of an application for mandates In the nature of writ of certiorari in terms of Article 140 of the Constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

BHARTI AIRTEL LANKA (PVT) LTD. No.598, Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo5.

PETITIONER Vs.

1. THE DIRECTOR GENERAL OF CUSTOMS Sri Lanka Customs Customs House, Bristol Street, Colombo 1.

2. MR. G.B. GNANARAJ Superintendent of Customs Post Clearance and Audit Branch (PCAB) Sri Lanka Customs Customs House, Bristol Street, Colombo 1.

3. MR. P.K.A. SENARATH Superintendent of Customs Post Clearance and Audit Branch (PCAB) Sri Lanka Customs Customs House, Bristol Street, Colombo 1.

4. MR. VIPULA SENANAYAKE Assistant Director of Customs

BEFORE

COUNSEL

Argued on

Decided on

S.Sriskandarajah,l

2

Investor Facilitation Centre (INF A C), Sri Lanka Customs Customs House, Bristol Street, Colombo 1.

5. MR. S.L.E. MOHOTII Superintendent of Customs

(CBCU Unit), Sri Lanka Customs Customs House Bristol Street, Colombo 1.

6. THE HON. ATTORNEY GENERAL Attorney General's Department Colombo 12.

RESPONDENTS

S. SRISKANDARAJAH, J (P/CA)

Faiz Musthapa PC with Riad Ameen,

for the Petitioner

Anusha Samaranayake,

for Respondents

01.03.2013 & 30.04.2013

11.07.2013

The Petitioner is a company incorporated under the Company Law of Sri Lanka,

and the Petitioner was issued a cellular mobile licence under the Sri Lanka Tele-communication

Act No.25 of 1991, as amended. The Petitioner submitted that it had entered into an agreement

with the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka under Section 17 of the Board of Investment Sri

Lanka Law No.4 of 1978, as amended and, in terms of the said agreement, the Petitioner is

entitled to import project related capital items approved by the Board of Investment, free of

Customs duty. The Petitioner further submitted that the subject matter of this application

relates to the importation of microwave links. The microwave links are essential for the

3

Petitioner's territorial network expansion and, to meet its network, commitments pursuant to

the licence. The Petitioner submitted that the said microwave links were declared by the

importers of other telecommunication operators under the H.S. Code 8529.90.00. As such, the

microwave links imported by the Petitioner were also declared under H.S. Code 8529.90.00 in

the Customs declaration form. It was the position of the Petitioner that the said Customs

declarations were accepted after examining the goods and were delivered on previous

occasions. But in or about March 2009, the Customs Officers processing the Customs declaration

forms expressed the opinion that microwave links imported by the Petitioner should be

classified under H.S. Code 8517.61.10, and the Excise Duty could be paid thereon. In view of

the opinion expressed by the Customs Officers, the Petitioner submitted that two consignments

of microwave links imported by the Petitioner were declared under H.S. Code 8517.61.10 in the

Customs declaration form and Excise duty was paid there on.

It is the position of the Petitioner that the H.S. Code 8517.61.10 is applicable to

base stations having transmission apparatus incorporating recipient apparatus, but the

microwave links imported by the Petitioner cannot be used for transmission and recipients of

signatures between the two telecommunication Boards without a microwave antenna. The

Petitioner submitted that the microwave links are imported by the Petitioner without a

microwave antenna and are manufactured separately in another country and imported by the

Petitioner in a separate consignment. It is the contention of the Petitioner that the microwave

links imported by the Petitioner do not constitute a base station but, instead, the said

microwave links and the microwave antenna together are eventually connected to a base

station. The description of the H.S. Code for "transmission apparatus incorporating recipient

apparatus" falls within H.S. Code 8517.61.10 which attracts an Excise duty. As the Petitioner

was exempted from Customs duty, as it is a BOI approved company, the 15% Customs Duty is

not leviable if the apparatus imported falls within the description given above. It is the

contention of the Petitioner that the transmission apparatus imported by the Petitioner does not

incorporate a recipient apparatus; it will fall within the category of "other". That could be

categorized under the H.S. Code 8517.62.90, the goods falling under this category is not subject

to Excise duty.

4

When one peruses the general rules for the interpretation of the harmonized system rules,

11 any

reference in a heading to an article shall be taken to include a reference to that article incomplete

or unfinished provided that, as presented, the incomplete or unfinished article has the essential

character of the complete or finished article. It shall also be taken in to include a reference to

that article complete or finished or (falling to be conclusive as complete or finished by virtue of

these rules) presented unassembled or disassembled."

As claimed by the Petitioner, the microwave links imported by the Petitioner do

not contain a microwave antenna. In the absence of a microwave antenna, the said product

cannot be termed as a transmission apparatus incorporating recipient apparatus, but even if one

considers the general rule of interpretation mentioned above, and if the Petitioner has imported

the microwave link and the microwave antenna in a disassembled or unassembled manner, it

could be interpreted that the said items will fall under an article incomplete or unfinished

transmission apparatus incorporating recipient apparatus falling under H.S. Code 8517.67.10,

but in the Petitioner's case, the Petitioner had not made any attempt to import microwave

antenna, either along with microwave links that was imported by the Petitioner or separately in

a different consignment to fit to the microwave link. In these circumstances one cannot

interpret the microwave links imported by the Petitioner will fall under the transmission

apparatus incorporating recipient apparatus and, therefore, it has to be categorized under

11 other" and, therefore, the Petitioner in his opinion has rightly declared that the H.S. Code is

that of 8517.62.90.

In view of the conflict on declaration, the 2nd Respondent and 3rd Respondent

belongs to the Port Clearance Audit Branch, had commenced investigation with regard to the

correct classification of the microwave links imported by the Petitioner and the liability to pay

Excise duty thereon. The Petitioner was summoned for an inquiry by the 2nd Respondent. The

Petitioner submitted, but the 5th Respondent also summoned the Petitioner's employees for

another inquiry and statements of the employees were recorded by the 5th Respondent. In view

of the conflicting inquiries between the 2nd and 5th, the 5th Respondent purposely detained and

thereafter seized the said microwave links referred to in Customs declaration bearing No.48319

by letter dated 23rd December 2009. This decision was made by the 5th Respondent despite the

5

fact the 4th Respondent had made an order to release the goods by obtaining a pay order to

satisfy the difference between the Excise duty payable between the two classifications.

The Petitioner in this application has sought a Writ of Certiorari to quash the

decision of the 5th Respondent contained in the said letter dated 22nd December 2009 marked

P14(a) and P14(b). Justice Tennekon in Attorney General v Wimaladharma 78 NLR 327 at 333

observed;

"It does not mean that any goods may be seized by officers of customs according to

whim and fancy ... It only means that an officer of customs bona fide acting as such may

seize any goods which he has reason to suspect are forfeited or liable to forfeiture ... To

use the words adopted by the legislature itself ... though in another context the officer of

customs seizing goods under Section 125 must have "probable cause" for such seizure."

It has also been held in Toyota Lanka (Pvt)Ltd v Director General of Customs SC Appeal No.49/2008

SC minutes 20.03.2009 the Supreme Court held:

"I am further of the view and hold that the forfeiture provided for in Section 47 would

not apply to a situation of a disputed classification of goods or an under payment or

short lavy of duties or dues. In such case event the proper couse would be a requirement

for payment of the amount due prior to delivery of goods or the recovery of the amounts

due in terms of section 18."

It has been held in the above case that if there is a disputed classification of goods and the said

declaration is made not by stealth to evade payment of duties, the proper cause is to request for

payment of the amount due prior to delivery of goods. As there is no allegation that the

Petitioner in the same consignment or in a different consignment had imported antennas to

allege that the Petitioner had imported unassembled or disassembled goods. In the instant case

the Petitioner had imported goods according to his classification it would fall under HS Code

8517.62.90 if Customs Department claims that it should fall under a different HS Code it has to

be determined after an inquiry, in such a case the difference of Customs duty or the Excise duty

should have been obtained as security and items imported could be released to the Petitioner.

6

As the inquiry has still not been completed, after giving an opportunity to the Petitioner, the

Customs Department could arrive at an appropriate finding in relation to the description under

which the Petitioner's goods could be declared but, the Respondents have no right to seize the

goods. In these circumstances, the issue of seizure notice is ultra vires. Therefore, this Court

quashes the notice of seizure and directs the Respondents to hold an inquiry and determine the

description of the goods imported by the Petitioner. The application for writ of certiorari is

allowed as prayed for in prayer (c) of the Petition without cost.

President of the Court of Appeal