==== BLOCKS ==== 

\

i I i I I J i J 1 I 1 I i 1

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRTIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

OF SRI LANKA

Kihaduwage Ekmon alias Harak Balana Mama

Accused-Appellant

CA . Appeal No. 190/2012

HC-Kalutara-259/2011

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

-Vs-

The Attorney-General

Respondent

Sisira J. de Abrew, J. &

P.W. D.C. Jayathilaka, J.

N.A. Chandana Sri Nissanka for Accused Appellant

Vjjith Ma1algoda, DSG for AG

10.10.2013

1

r

Sisira J.de Abrew, J.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused appellant in this case was convicted for

kidnapping a girl under 16 years of age (count No. 01),

for the offence of grave sexual abuse in respect of the

said girl which is an offence punishable under Section 365

B II (b) of the Pena L Code and for causing simple hurt to

the said girl. (Nisansala Sandamali). He was on the 1st

count, sentenced to a term of 7 years of Rigorous

Imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs. 20,000/-carrying a

defaul t sentence of 6 months of simple imprisonment. On

the 2nd count he was sentenced to a term of 20 years of

Rigorous Imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs. 20,000/-

carrying a default sentence of 6 months simple imprisonment

and to pay a sum of Rs. 600,000/-as compensation to the

victim Sandamali car rying a default sentence of 2 years

simple imprisonment. On the 3rd count he was sentenced to

a term of 1 year Rigorous Imprisonment. Learned trial

judge directed that. all three sentences should run

consecutively. Being aggrieved by the said conviction and

the sentence the accused appellant has appealed to this

court.

2

The facts of this case may be briefly summarized as

follows;

Nisansala Sandamali who was the victim in this case, on the

day of the incident, was returning home from her school.

The accused appellant who was a cattle keeper dragged

Nisansala Sandamali to a nearby jungle and after removing

her underwear he inserted his middle finger to her vagina.

Thereafter he kicked the girl. She sustained an injury as a

resul t of the said act of the accused appellant. Learned

counsel submitted the following grounds of appeal.

1. Evidence of the prosecutrix cannot be believed as she

has made a belated statement to the police.

2. Identification () E the accused appellant has not been

proved beyond reasonable doubt.

3. Sentence imposed on the accused is excessive.

I now advert to the ground No. l. According to Nisansala

Sandamali, soon after the incident, she went and complained

the incident to her mother. However it appears that the

statement to the pollce had been made on the 08.12.2005 and

the incident had taken place on 06.12.2005. Although the

learned counsel for the accused appellant raises the ground

of delay, it appears from the evidence that the learned

defence counsel at the trial has not suggested to the

3

!

~

I

,

witnesses that there was a delay in making a statement to

the Police. Therefore the witnesses did not have an

opportunity to explain about the delay. However it appears

soon after the incident victim Nisansala Sandamali was

taken to the house of Wijayananda who was the owner of the

herd of cattle. The girl has pointed out the accused

appellant as the person who committed the sexual offence on

her. When we consider all these matters, we are of the

opinion that the evidence of the witnesses cannot be

rejected on the ground of delay itself.

I now advert to the 2nd ground. According to the evidence

led at the trial, in the evening of the day of the incident

itself victim SandamaLi had been taken to the house of the

Wijayananda. Sandamali had pointed out the accused

appellant as the persun who committed the act. Wijayananda

says that the accused appellant was the only cattle keeper

in the area. Further Wij ayananda says that around 12.30

and 1.00 p.m on the day of the incident he took food to the

accused appellant who was working under him. According to

the victim Sandamali the incident has taken place little

before 12.30 p. m on the day of the incident. Wijayananda

between 12.30 and 1. 00 p. m had given food to the accused

appellant.When Wijayananda questioned the accused appellant

4

about the alleged act done by him, he kept quiet without

answering the question raised by him (Wijayananda) .

Sandamali at one stage admitted that she had not seen the

accused appellant pcior to the incident but later she

admitted that she had seen the accused appellant once

before. When we consider all these matters, we are of the

opinion that victim Sandamali had clearly identified the

accused appellant as the person who committed the sexual

act. We therefore hold that the identity of the accused

appellant has been pcoved beyond reasonable doubt by the

prosecution.

I now advert to the 3rd ground of appeal. Learned counsel

submits that the sentGnce imposed is excessive. According

to the doctor he has observed redness and swelling in the

vagina of the girl. But the hymen was intact. The age of

the girl was at the time of the incident only 6 years.

According to the sentence imposed by the learned trial

judge, the total term of imprisonment imposed on him is 28

years. When we consider all the above matters, we feel

that the sentence imposed by the learned trial judge is

excessive. We also observe that the accused appellant is

having four previous convictions with regard to cattle

theft. These offences had been committed according to the

5

f

! ,

1 1 1

f I 1 1 I

previous convictions record during the period commencing

from 1976 to 1987.

Considering all these matters we decide to intervene with

the sentence imposed by the learned trial judge. We set

aside the sentence of 7 years Rigorous Imprisonment and

fine of Rs. 20,000/-imposed on count No. Oland sentence

him on the 1st count to a terms of 2 years Rigorous

Impr isonment and to pay a fine of Rs. 10, 000/ -carrying a

defaul t sentence of :3 months simple imprisonment. We set

aside the sentence of 20 years Rigorous Imprisonment and

fine of Rs. 20,000/-and compensation of Rs. 600,000/-

imposed on the 2nd count and impose the following sentence

on count No.2. We sentence the accused appellant on count

No. 2 to a term of 10 years Rigorous Imprisonment, to pay a

fine of Rs. 10,000/-carrying a default sentence of 3

months simple imprisonment and to a sum of Rs. 100,000/- to

the victim carrying a default sentence of 2 years simple

Imprisonment.

We affirm the sentence imposed by the learned trial judge

on count No.3. We direct that the sentences imposed on

Count Nos. 1, 2 and should run concurrently. We direct

6

I; ff

,

j

the Prison Authorities to implement the sentence imposed by

this court from the date of this judgement. (10.10.2013)

We direct the learned High Court Judge of Kalutara to issue

a fresh committal indicating the sentence imposed by this

court. The default sentences imposed by this court should

be implemented in addition to the term of imprisonment

imposed by this court.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

LA/-

7