==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. No. 103/2009 H.C.Trincomali No.HCT/158/06

Paramasivam Raja Theligu Nagar, Pudukudiruppu, Kampalagamam.

Petitioner -Vs-

Hon. Attorney General, Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

C.A.N o.l 03/2009

Before

Counsel

Argued and Decided on

Sisira de Abrew ,J.

H.C.Trincomali No.HCT/158/06

Sisira de Abrew,J. and P. W .D. C.J ayathilaka,J.

Dr. Ranjith Fernando for the Accused Appellant. Yasantha Kodagoda DSG for the A.G.

20.05.2013

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted for

raping a girl named Guniraja Pushpalatha who was below 16

years of age. He was sentenced to a term of 10 years rigorous

imprisonment, to a pay a fine of Rs.10,000/- carrying a

default sentence of 6 months rigorous imprisonment, to pay

a sum ofRs. 10,0000/- as compensation to the victim carrying

a default sentence of 2 years rigorous imprisonment.

Learned Counsel for the accused-appellant does not

challenge the conviction and he makes an application to

reduce the sentence. He submits that the accused is a young

person and had not used force on victim. Learned Deputy

Solicitor General submits that the victim has become a mother

of a child at the age of 16. Learned Counsel for the accused

appellant however submits that the compensation ordered by

the learned trial judge is excessive. We have considered the

submissions of both sides. We are mindful of the fact that the

victim in this case has to bring up the child and she has

become a mother at the age of 16 . There is no evidence led at

the trial that the victim was employed. Thus the victim will

have to bring this child up with whatever the money that she

has. Therefore the compensation ordered by the learned trial

judge would help her to maintain the child.

In these circumstances we do not think that the

sentence imposed by the learned trial judge is excessive. We

feel that the sentence imposed by the learned trial judge is

reasonable. For the above reasons we do not interfere with the

sentence imposed by the learned trial Judge. Leaned Counsel

for the accused-appellant makes an application to implement

the sentence from the date of conviction " 24/03/2009 ". We

direct the Prison Authorities to implement the sentence from

the date of conviction if the accused has not been released on

bail after conviction.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jaythilaka,J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

WC/-