==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALSIT

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Wijeratne Mudiyansela jayantha Wijerantne

Accused -Appellant

C.A.Appea1No.218/2008 H.C. Trincomalee No.HCEP/1871/2001

Before

Counsel

Argued & Decided on

Sisira de Abrew, J,

Vs.

The Hon. Attorney General, Attorney's General's Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

SISIRA DE ABREW, J & P.W.D.C. JAYATHILAKA, J

Amila Palliyage for the Accused-Appellant

Heranjan Peries S.S.C. for the State.

06.03.2013.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases.

The accused-appellant in this case was convicted of the murder

of a girl named Wijerathne Mudiyanselage Dinusha Shyamalie and

was sentenced to death. Being aggrieved by said conviction and the

sentence the accused-appellant has appealed to this court.

Facts of this case may be briefly summarized as follows:

The deceased girl who was 14 years old at the time of the

incident, her step mother, the accused-appellant and his father were

living in one house. On the day of incident around 3.00 p.m.

Udulawathie on hearing some sound of a small girl went near the

house of the accused-appellant. She then saw the accused-appellant,

standing near his house. The accused-appellant, at this stage,

addressed Udulawathie m the following language. "I killed Sudu."

According to Udulawathie, Sudu is the deceased girl in this case.

She thereafter ran away from the place and met several neighbours

on the road. While they were on the road, the accused-appellant

came to the road and again addressed them in the following language.

()./ "I killed Sudu". This was the summary of the evidence of witness o'

Udulawathie, Witness Wanaraji and Premasiri. Premasiri further

said that the accused-appellant was, at this time, wearing a blood

stained shirt. Later the said witnesses went inside the house of the

accused-appellant and saw the deceased girl lying fallen on the

ground with bleeding injuries. According to the postmortem report

there were several multiple cut injuries on the head of the deceased .

She had died due to said injuries.

The accused-appellant made a dock statement. The dock

statement may be briefly set out as follows: When the accused-

appellant, on the day of the incident, came to his house he saw the

deceased girl lying fallen on the ground. Then he went out and

CV shouted and told the people in the neighbourhood/ that somebody

had killed his sister (the deceased girl.) He specifically mentioned

Premasiri's name and Udulawathie's name. According to him, he told

Premasiri that someone had hit the deceased girl.

Learned trial Judge did not consider the dock statement.

This is the only the ground urged by the learned counsel for accused-

appellant. It is necessary to consider, at this stage, whether position

taken up by the accused-appellant in his dock statement is true or

whether it creates a reasonable doubt in the prosecution case. When

Premasiri was giving evidence learned counsel who appeared for the

accused-appellant at the trial did not suggest his defence to witness

Premasiri. He did not suggest his defence to any of the witnesses

who gave evidence on behalf of the prosecution.

We note that witness Premasiri was not cross examined

at all. This shows that the evidence given by witness Premasiri had

not been challenged by the accused-appellant at the trial. When we

examine the evidence given by the prosecution witnesses, we see no

reason to doubt their evidence. In our view the evidence given by the

prosecution witnesses can be accepted beyond reasonable doubt.

They had spoken the truth. What happens when evidence given by a

reliable witness on a material point is not challenged in cross-

examination? What is the effect of such silence on the part of the

counsel? In this regard I would like to consider certain judicial

decisions. In the case of Sarwan Singh vs. State of Punjab R

(2002) AIR Supreme Court (Ill) 3652 at 3655 and 3656 also

reported in 2003 Criminal Law Journal 21. Indian Supreme Court

held " It is a rule of essential justice that whenever the opponent has

declined to avail himself of the opportunity to put his case in cross-

examination it must follow that the evidence tendered on that issue

ought to be accepted". This judgment was cited with the approval in

the case of Bobby Mathew Vs State of Karanataka (2004)

Criminal Law Journal. Pg. 3003. In the case of State of

Himachal Pradesh Vs. Thakur Dass (1983), 2 Criminal Law

Journal 1694 at 1701 V.D. Misra CJ held Whenever a

statement of fact made by a witness is not challenged in cross

examination, it has to be concluded that the fact in question is not

disputed." "Absence of cross examination of prosecution witness of

certain facts leads to inference of admission of that fact." Vide

Mothilal Vs State of Madhya Pradesh (1990) Criminal Law

Journal NOC 125 MP.

In the light of the above judicial literature I hold that

"-~whenever the evidence given by witness on material point is not A challenged in cross examination, it has to be concluded that such

evidence is not disputed and is accepted by the opponent subject of

course to the qualification that the witness is a reliable witness. I

have earlier held the prosecution witnesses had spoken the truth. I

therefore hold that this story narrated by the prosecution is a true

story. I have earlier pointed out that the defence taken up by the

accused-appellant had not been suggested to the prosecution

witnesses. The accused had spoken the names of Udulawathi and

Premasiri in his dock statement. But he failed to suggest his defence to

these witnesses. When I consider all these matters I hold the view that

the story narrated in the dock statement by the accused-appellant is

false and is not capable of creating reasonable doubt in the truth of

the prosecution case. I therefore reject the dock statement as a false

statement. Under these circumstances question has to be asked:

would there be any change in the verdict of the trial judge even if

the dock statement is considered by the learned trial Judge. The

answer is obviously no. In such a situation should the Court of Appeal

on the basis of non- consideration of the dock statement send the

case back for retrial especially, when there is overwhelming evidence

against the accused-appellant. In this connection it is relevant to

consider proviso the section 334 of the Criminal Procedure Code

which read as follows: "provided that court may, notwithstanding that

it is of opinion that the point raised in the appeal might be decided in

favour of the appellant, dismiss the appeal if it considers that no

substantial miscarriage of justice has actually occurred ". When I

consider the evidence of the prosecution witnesses, the dock

statement and the above observation made by me, I hold the view

that non-consideration of dock statement has not occasioned a

failure of justice or miscarriage of justice. I therefore decide to apply

the said proviso and dismiss the appeal. But I would like to state here

that this judgment should not be considered as a license to trial

Judges not to consider the dock statement of the accused-appellant

when deciding the case. We have arrived at this decision purely on

evidence given at the trial. For the benefit of the trial Judges and legal

practitioners of this country I would like to state the following guide

lines with regard to the evaluation of the dock statement.

1. If the dock statement 1s believed, it must be acted

upon.

2. If the dock statement raises a reasonable doubt in the

prosecution case, the defence taken up in the dock

statement must succeed.

3. The dock statement of one accused person should not

be used against the other accused person.

Similar view was expressed by the Court of Criminal Appeal in

Kularatne vs Queen in 71 NLR page 529.

For the above reasons I affirm the conviction and death

sentence and dismiss the appeal.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J.

I agree.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

fmds