==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

CA. 347/99 F

DC Homagama 523/P

Kathri Achchig Mary Nona,

181, Delagahawatta, I Pitipana South, Homagama

5th Defendant- -Appellant

Vs

Karawitage Premawathie, No 264, Ihala Kosgama, Kosgama

Plaintiff-Respondent and others

". BEFORE: A.W.A.SALAM, J (piCA) & SUNIL RAJAPAKSHE, J

COUNSEL: Wickrama Jayathilaka for the 5th defendant-appellant and Sudath Wickramaratna for the plaintiff-respondent.

ARGUED ON: 14.03.2013

WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS TENDERED ON: 29 & 31

May 2013

DECIDED ON: 21.07.2014

Sunil Rajapaksha, J T

~iS appeal arises from the judgment and

interlocutory decree entered in a partition action.

The plaintiff-respondent (hereinafter referred to as the

"plaintiff') filed an action to partition the land

I I

described in the schedule to the plaint and there was

no dispute as to the identity of the corpus. The only

question that arose for determination in the partition

action was the authenticity of deed No 27397 dated 29

June 1979 which was marked by the plain tiff at the

trial as P3. The points of contest No 1 and 5 relate to

the authenticity of this deed The plaintiff took up the

I position that P3 was duly executed valid deed by which

the plaintiffs father-in-law gifted certain rights in the

subject matter to her husband. The plaintiff takes up

the position that after the demise of her husband the

rights conveyed on P3, in addition to certain other

rights devolved on the plaintiff and her 2 children. The

party who contested the position of the plaintiff with

regard to P3 was the 5th defendant-appellant who has

preferred the present appeal and referred to in the rest

of this judgment as the "appellant". The appellant

maintained in the lower court that P3 had never been

signed by the Donor who is her father and the father-

in-law of the plaintiff. The appellant in other words as

per point of contest No 5 took up the position that P3

was the fraudulent deed. The learned that district

judge answered point of contest No 5 in the negative

and the point of contest of the plaintiff as regards the

validity of P3 in the affirmative. In other words the

learned district judge accepted P3 as a duly executed

deed by the Donor and decided that the undivided

rights that had passed on P3 ultimately devolve on the

CA 347/99 F DC HOMAGAM 523/P JUDGMENT 21.07.2014 SUNIL RAJAPAKSHA, J •

plaintiff and her 2 children.

The mam question that appears to have ansen for

decision in this appeal is limited to the issue relating to

the finding of the learner district judge as to the

validity of P3. The learned counsel for the plaintiff has

cited the decision in Samarawickrama Vs Jayasingha

I and others 2009 Bar Association Law Journal page 85.

In that case it was held that Section 101 of the

Evidence Ordinance deals with the burden of proof and

whoever desires any court to give judgment as to any

legal right or liability dependent on the existence of

facts which he asserts must prove that those facts

exist. Based on the above rule when the plaintiffs case

is examined it appears that the plaintiff relied on P3 as

one of the deeds by virtue of which she became entitled

to undivided shares in the corpus along with her 2

children. In order to prove the documents marked as

P3 in terms of Section 68 of the Evidence Ordinance,

the plaintiff called one of the attesting witnesses of the

deed. Further when the deed P3 was marked it was

not objected to by the appellant nor was it produced

subject to proof. As such under section 154 of the Civil

Procedure Code this deed can be taken as a legal

evidence for all purposes. This principle has been laid

down in the often cited judgment of the Supreme Court

in Sri Lanka Ports Authority and another vs Jugolinija

Boa! Eaat 1 QS 1 1 SLR l8 whore SUpreme Cm..trt. held.

CA 347/99 F DC HOMAGAM S23/P JUDGMENT 21.07.2014 SUNil RAJAPAKSHA, J I

I ,

i I i

II

I {l

1 I l

\

1 I I

t I

that if no objection to any particular document marked

at the trial is taken at the close of a case when

document is already in evidence they are evidence for

all purposes.

The appellant has not discharged the burden of

adducing any proof that the document in question P3

has been executed in a fraudulent manner or at least

that it did not contain the signature of the donor. As

such, the learned that district judge cannot be faulted

for her decision giving effect to P3 which has been duly

proved at the trial. For reasons stated above, this

appeal is dismissed subject to costs.

A W A Salam, J

I agree

TW/-

Judge of the Court of Appeal

President/ Court of Appeal

CA 347/99 F DC HOMAGAM 523/P JUDGMENT 21.07.2014 SUNil RAJAPAKSHA, J I

\

l-f

iI, i

\

t