==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI

LANKA

C.A. Appeal No. 127/2011

HC. Hambantota No.101/2007

Jinendradasa Wanigasinghe alias Peeter

Chuti alias Tangalle Chuti .

1st Accused-appellant.

-Vs-

Republic of Sri Lanka

Respondent

Before: Sisira J. de Abrew, J &

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J

Counsel: S.L. Bulathsinghalage for the accused-appellant.

Shanil Kularatne SSC for the A.G.

Argued and

Decided on: 22.10.2013 & 23.10.2013

1

I,II

•III l tI

t

Sisira J. de Abrew. J.

Heard both counsel in support of their respective cases. The accused-

appellant in this case was convicted for the offence of robbery which is an

offence punishable under section 380 read with section 383 of the Penal

Code. The prosecution alleges that the accused-appellant with persons

unknown to the prosecution robbed jewellery, radio and watches worth of

Rs. 200,000/-. After trial the learned Trial Judge convicted the accused-

appellant and sentenced him to a term of 15 years R.I and to pay a fine of Rs.

10,000/- carrying a default term of 06 months imprisonment. The facts of this

case may be briefly summarized as follows. Sunanda the main witness was

living in his wife's house. Sunanda's sister-in-law and mother-in-law were also

living in the same house. On the day of the incident in the night ( witnesses do

not specify a time), two people entered the house of Sunanda and they

(people entered) ordered all inmates of the house to go to one room. One

person pressed a pillow on the face of Sunanda. According to the witness this

person was armed with a pistol. Thereafter the other person entered into the

house and took away Jewellery, cassette radio , watches and cash. The

accused-appellant and the other accused who was tried in abtentia were later

identified at an identification parade as the people who entered the house.

2

f I ! ! t I rf r IIII

tff I

t ;

II I[ If \ II

Learned counsel appearing for the accused-appellant contends that the

accused-appellant and the other accused were shown to the witnesses prior to

the identification parade being held. He therefore contends that the

identification parade was not properly conducted. Although he contends so I

Learned counsel who appeared for the accused-appellant at the trial failed to

make this suggestion to the witnesses. Further we note that 03 suspects had

been produced at the identification parade. The witnesses identified only 2

suspects at the parade. If the argument of the learned counsel that the

suspects were shown to the witness prior to the identification parade, the

question arises as to why they did not identify the 3rd person. When we

consider these matters, the contention of learned counsel for the accused-

appellant that the suspects were shown to the witnesses prior to the

identification parade being held cannot be accepted. We therefore reject the

said contention. Learned counsel next contended that the finger prints taken

at the scene were sent to the Registrar of Finger Prints but the report of the

Registrar of the Finger Prints was not produced. He therefore contends that a

reasonable doubt has arisen with regard to the culpability of the accused-

appellant. Merely because the report of the Registrar of the Finger Prints was

not produced at the trial, it cannot be said that a reasonable doubt with regard

to the culpability of the accused-appellant has arisen. What happens if the

3

II, t f i ,

if1

!

finger prints found at the scene tally with the finger prints of the inmates of

the house? When we consider all these matters we hold that there is no merit

in the said argument.

Learned counsel next contended that although the witnesses ( Sunanda,

Sumanawathie and Ariyawathie) identified the accused-appellant at the

parade, they failed to identify the accused-appellant at the trial. He therefore

contends that there is no identification of the accused-appellant at the trial.On

the strength of this argument he contends that the accused-appellant should

be discharged. It is true that the witnesses who identified the accused-

appellant at the identification parade did not identify him at the trial. What

happens when a witness, having identified the accused at an identification

parade, fails to identify the accused at the trial ? Can the conviction be

sustained. This question was discussed by the Court of Appeal of England in

Regina Vs Obsourne and Virtue 1973 QB 678. In the said case Obsourne and

Virtue were accused of having taken part in an armed robbery. Mrs. Brookes

ad Mrs. Head were eye witnesses to the robbery. Obsourne and Virtue were

put up for identification on separate identification parades. Both ladies

attended the parades and identified the defendants. They testified at the trial

which commenced seven and a half months after the identification parade.

4

~

iI

f

t

f f !f

ft1

\

Mrs. Brookes testimony related to Obsourne. In her evidence Mrs. Brookes

said that I she did not remember that she had picked out anyone on the last

parade'. Mrs. Head said in the witness box that I the man I picked out, I don't

think he is in the dock today'. Despite the defence objection Chief Inspector

Stevenson who was the officer in charge of both parades, was permitted to

testify to establish the fact that both ladies identified Obsourne and Virtue at

the parade. Court of Appeal held that I the evidence of the officer in charge of

the identification parade was admissible, for it did not contradict women's

evidence. It was evidence of identification other than identification in the

witness box, and prosecution was seeking only to establish the fact of

identification at the parade.' Court of Appeal of England dismissed both

appeals of Obsourne and Virtue. It is therefore seen from the decision in the

case of Obsourne and Virtue even though both witnesses failed to identify the

accused persons in Court, the identification of the accused persons at the

parade by two witnesses was admitted in evidence. In that case, there was no

identification of the accused persons in Court, but the Court of Appeal of

England affirmed the convictions. It is important to consider a decision of the

Indian Supreme Court on this point. In the case of Ram Nath Mahto Vs State

of Bihar 1996 A.I.R Supreme Court ( iiJ 2511 a robbery was committed in a

running train. Witness Divakar Yadav identified the accused as one of the

5

I

I1 i I

i I

( f I J I ,I

~ I I I I II

robbers, carrying a revolver, at the identification parade but failed to identify

him in Court. The Magistrate who conducted the parade gave evidence to the

effect that witness Divakar Yadev identified the accused at the parade. The

trial court, relying on the evidence of the identification parade, convicted the

appellant. In his appeal before the Supreme Court of India, counsel for the

appellant contended that the evidence of the identification parade did not

constitute by itself substantive evidence. The Supreme Court of India rejecting

this contention, dismissed the appeal and affirmed the conviction of the

appellant. In Queen Vs Julis 65 NLR 505 Basnayake CJ held as follows.

'Under Section 157 of the Evidence Ordinance a former statement made by a

witness identifying an accused at an identification parade is relevant as

corroboration of any evidence to the like effect given by the witness at the

trial of the accused, provided that the statement was made before 'an

authority legally competent to investigate the fact' other than an officer

investigating under chapter xii of the Criminal Procedure Code.'The above

legal literature was considered by me in my judgment in the case of

Athukoralage Nihal Perera Vs The Attorney-General CA. 43-44/2002-

05.08.2005. On appeal, the Supreme Court in SC ( Spl) LA 203/2005 ( decided

on 25.04.2006) refused leave to appeal. Considering the principles laid down

in the above judicial decisions, I hold that if a witness having identified the

6

t

f II f I !! t

I

J

r I I !t ! l l I I

accused at an identification parade fails to identify the accused at the trial,

conviction of the accused can be sustained. Learned counsel next contended

that the learned trial judge had not considered the dock statement of the

accused. I now advert to this contention. The learned trial judge at page 1460f

the brief ( 1st para) has considered the dock statement. I note that in the next

paragraph the learned trial judge had considered the dock statement and the

prosecution evidence and had come to the conclusion that the evidence of the

prosecution could be accepted. When we consider the judgment, we are

unable to agree with the learned counsel that the learned trial judge had not

evaluated the dock statement. We have considered the evidence led at the

trial and are of the opinion that the prosecution has proved the case beyond

reasonable doubt. We therefore affirm the conviction.

The accused-appellant has been sentenced to a term of 15 years R. I on a

charge where he had robbed goods worth of Rs. 200,000/-. We feel that the

sentence imposed by the trial judge is excessive. We therefore decide to

interfere with the sentence imposed by the learned trial Judge. We set aside

the term of 15 years R.I imposed by the learned trial Judge and sentence the

accused-appellant to a term of 10 years R.I. The fine ordered by the learned

7

Trial Judge remains unaltered. Subject to the above variation of the sentence

the appeal of the appellant is dismissed.

The accused-appellant who is on bail should submit to his bail. The sentence

imposed by this Court should be implemented from the date on which the

accused-appellant surrenders to Court or is brought before the Court.

Appeal dismissed

Judge of the Court of Appeal

P.W.D.C. Jayathilaka, J

I agree.

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Kpm/

8

I

f l f , I

t

i I!