==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

C.A. 695/92F (DC Kegalle 22633/P)

1

Mohottalage Wijeratne of Anguruwella, Kegalla,

Presently of Hakurugammana Aranayake.

Plaintiff

Vs

1. Mohottalage Punchi Banda of

Horewala, Aranayake.

2. Kariyapperuma Athukoralalage Tilakaratne,

of Hakurugammana,

Aranayake.

Defendants

AND NOW BETWEEN

Kariyapperuma Athukoralalage

Tilakaratne ofHakurugammana,

Aranayake.

2nd Defendant-Appellant

Vs

Mohottalage Wijeratne of

Anguruwella, Kegalla, Presently

of Hakurugammana,Aranayake.

Plaintiff-Respondent

BEFORE

COUNSEL

ARGUED ON

DECIDED ON

Deepali Wijesundera J.

Mohottalage Punchi Banda of

Horewala, Aranayake.

1 st Defendant-Respondent.

: Deepali Wijesundera J.

: Manohara De Silva PC with

Nimal Hippola for the

Defendant -Appellants

Dr. Sunil Cooray with Amila

Kiripitiya for the

Plaintiff - Respondent.

: 29th August, 2014

: 16th December, 2014

The respondent in this case instituted a partition action in the

District Court of Kegalle to have the land called Kapukotuwe Hena

described in the schedule to the plaintiff in the said case partitioned

between himself and the 1st Defendant-Respondent. There was no

dispute as to the identity of the corpus. Plan No 851 marked X and the

report marked X1 was admitted by the respondents. The 1st Defendant

2

admitted the pedigree set out in the plaintiff and claimed his undivided %

share to be allotted to include lot 1 in the plan marked X. The 2nd

Defendant the appellant in the instant case intervened as a claimant

before the surveyor and filed his statement claiming that he was gifted

Punchirala's right by deed marked 2V2 and also claimed prescriptive

title to the land. The Learned District Judge after analyzing evidence

entered decree as prayed for by the plaintiff and said the 2nd defendant

is not entitled for decree on prescription and that Punchirala did not

have title to execute the deed No. 2133 marked 2V2. The 2nd defendant

filed this appeal against the said Judgment.

Both parties have agreed that the said land was originally owned

by Punchirala and Manikrala whose rights devolved on Gunaratne and

Appuhamy. Appuhamy's % shares devolved on the 1st defendant in the

District Court case. The dispute was on the title of Punchirala who is the

vendee in deed No. 5520 marked P4 by which his son Gunaratne

transferred his land to his father. Case No. 14478 in District Court

Kegalle was filed to retransfer the said case to Gunaratne. The decree

was made absolute on 06/03/1963 which was to retransfer the said land

to Gunaratne. The extract of this case record is filed as P5 Punchirala

had failed to execute the deed and it has been done by the Registrar by

deed No. 987 marked P6.

3

, '

The appellant's argument was that before P6 was executed after

Punchirala transferred X share of the land by deed No. 2133 marked as

2V2 therefore the plaintiff respondent is not entitled to Y:z share of the

said land as decided by the Discrict Judge. The Learned Counsel for the

appellant made a long analysis of the evidence given at the trial in the

District Court and stated that the plaintiff is entitle to the said land on

prescription as well.

The Learned Counsel for the respondent stated that the decree

from which Gunaratne derived title was entered and made absolute on

06/03/1963 therefore Punchirala did not have title to pass on to the

plaintiff. He further submitted that Punchirala has transferred the land by

2V2 to the plaintiff subject to life interest of himself and Dingiri Manika

therefore he can not claim title on prescription either.

The counsel for the respondents citing the judgments in Alles Vs

Alles 51 NLR 416 and Munasinghe Vs Vithanage 69 NLR 97 and

Alwis Vs Piyasena Fernando 1993 (1) SLR 119 stated that it had been

held that the Appellate Court should not interfere with the conclusions of

the trial judge based on evidence and facts. Citing the judgment in Rev.

Minuwangoda Dammika Vs Galle Sarada 2003 3 SLR 247 and said it

4

was held in this case even if the judgment does not contain any

evaluation of evidence if the final conclusion is correct the appellate

Court should not interfere with the judgment.

On perusal of the Learned District Judge's judgment dated

28/01/1993 and the documents and the proceedings in the District Court

it is clear that the deed marked 2V2 is not a valid deed Punchirala did

not have title to pass on to the 2nd defendant appellant. By the decree

entered in 1963 his title was given to Gunaratne there was no appeal

against this decree therefore the title of Punchirala was passed on to

Gunaratne.

The Learned District Court has carefully evaluated the evidence

given at the trial and examined the documents filed and arrived at the

correct decision. The appellant has failed to make any legal argument

why the said judgment should be set aside.

For the afore stated reason the appeal of the appellant is

dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

5