==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA Court of Appeal No.CA 202/2011 High Court (Vavuniya) No.2031/2009

Anesh Pradeep Kumar alias Jeewan No.1, Karapincahakulam, Maharabaikulam, Vavuniya.

Accused-Appellant Vs Hon. Attorney General Attorney General's Department Colombo -12

Complainant-Respondents

CA 202/2011

Before

Counsel

Argued &

Decided on

Anil Gooneratne, J.

HC-Vavuniya-2031/09

Anil Gooneratne, J &

P.R. Walgama, J.

D.Karunarathne for the Accused

Appellant

S. Thurairajah, DSG for

Complainant-Respondent

30.10.2014

The accused appellant was indicted in the High Court of

Vavunia for possession of a hand grenade, an offence

punishable under regulation 36 (1) read with 36 (5) of the

Emergency Regulations contained in Gazette Notification

bearing No. 1405/14 of 13.08.2005. The learned counsel for

the Accused Appellant submitted that his client is an

epilepsy patient.

It was his position that on the date of the incident whilst

walking towards the mother's house to handover some cash

the accused appellant suffered from epileptic fits. As

iI

!

f

t

such learned counsel for the appellant denies and rej ect

the charge preferred against him.

Learned Deputy Solicitor General who appears for the

Complainant Respondent submits to this court that he is

unable to support the conviction for the following reasons.

1. The alleged bomb which is the subj ect matter of

this case which was collected at a certain point

and handed over to the Government Analyst, and

required to be led in evidence, in a chain of

evidence has not been considered by the learned

High Court Judge.

2 . It was also the learned Deputy Solicitor

General's position that it is necessary to have a

proper order as regards the diffusion of the

bomb. Such an order has not been obtained.

Having perused the evidence led before the High Court there

is a necessity for the learned Magistrate to make an order

as regards the diffusing of the bomb.

It has been brought to the notice of Court that no such

order has been made by the learned Magistrate and as such

,

the prosecution could not have proved this case beyond

reasonable doubt. I I

We have considered the submissions of both counsel. We are

satisfied that the case of the prosecution has not been

pro~ed in the trial court beyond reasonable doubt, based on

the above two lapses highlighted by the learned Deputy

Solicitor General. In the circumstances we proceed to set

aside the conviction and sentence of the learned High Court

Judge and we proceed to acquit the accused-appellant

accordingly.

Accused Appellant acquitted.

61<

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

P.R. Walqama, J.

I agree. r· ve. ~t::;;;~

JUDGE OF TH::iOURT OF APPEAL

LA/----------