==== BLOCKS ==== 

•

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CA(PHC)APN 01/2013 HC Tengalle 10/2001 MC Walasmulla Case No. 32003

In the matter of an application in terms of article 138 of the consititution read together with Section 365 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure Act No. 15 of 1979 .

Vitharanage Piyasena alias Baby,

Weheragoda,

Ulahitiyawa,

Middeniya.

Presently at the Prison of Tengalle.

Accused-Petitioner

Vs

Hon. Attorney General,

Attorney General's Department,

Colombo

1st Respondent.

S. K. J'"ayadasa alias Omarekade Ukkun,

Milterikadc,

Ulahitiyawa.

Presently at Embilipitiya.

Accused-Respondent.

1

Before : A.W.A. Salam, J. &

Malani Gooneratne, J.

Counsel : Dinushika Halahensu for the Petitioner and DSG Ayesha

Jinasena for the Respondent.

Argued on : 16.07.2013

Decided on: 30.07.2013

A.W .A. Salam, J. T

he accused-petitioner who was indicted in the High Court on

several counts was found guilty after trial for abduction, an offense

punishable under Section 355 of the Penal Code. Thereafter, he was

sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for a term of three years and a fine

of Rs. 7500 j -. In addition, he was directd to pay compensation to the

father of the deceased who had been abducted by the petitioner and two

others. The sentence on the accused has been passed almost one year

and seven months ago namely on 8 February 2012. In the present

application the petitioner seeks to have the sentence passed on him set

aside or revised or the jail term imposed on him reduced on medical

grounds. The petitioner takes up the position that after he was sentenced

to serve the jail term his health condition started deteriorating and he

presently suffers from cirrhosis.

We have considered the ground urged by the petitioner in the revision

2

application to vary the sentence as aforesaid. Since there is no Provisions

in law for the sentence imposed by the original court set aside revised or

reduced on the ground of medical ground, we see no reason to grant the

relief to the petitioner. In the circumstances, we regret our inability to

grant any relief to the accused-petitioner and accordingly dismiss the

revision application.

Malani Goonerathne, J

I agree

NR/-

3

Judge of the Court of Appeal

Judge of the Court of Appeal