==== BLOCKS ==== 

.<

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

c.A. No.315/2009

BEFORE:

COUNSEL:

Anil Gooneratne J. &

H. N. J. Perera J.

1. Samastha Lanka Guru Upadheshaka

Vurtheeya Sangamaya,

No. E53, Dehimaduwa Road,

Uthuwankanda Mawatha,

AND 02 OTHERS

PETITIONERS

Vs.

1. Susil Premajayantha

Minister of Education,

Ministry of Education, 'Isurupaya',

Battaramulla.

2. M. N. Nimal Bandara

Secretary to the Ministry of Education

Ministry of Education, 'Isurupaya',

Battaramulla.

AND 15 OTHERS

RESPONDENTS

S.L. Gunasekera for Petitioners

M. N. B. Fernando D.S.G., for Respondents

1

i

t

fr

!1It

2

ARGUED ON: 02.07.2013

DECIDED ON: 22.10.2013

GOONERATNE J.

The 1st Petitioner to this application is a registered trade union

consisting of "Teacher Counselors" and it is also described in the amended

petition as "In Service Advisers". The 2nd Petitioner is the President and the 3

rd

Petitioner is the Secretary of the 1st Petitioner Union respectively with several

years of teaching service. At the hearing of this application it was revealed by

both parties that very many facts are undisputed, except the interpretation given

by either party to documents P2, P3 and P7. The document P2 is a Cabinet

Memorandum and P3 is the Cabinet Decision pertaining to memorandum P2.

Letter P7 is only a letter addressed by Secretary National Salaries and Cadres

Commission, to the 3rd Petitioner. The memorandum P2 is titled 'Establishment of

In Service Advisors' Service'. P2 dated 28.3.2007 refer to five recommendations.

The Cabinet decision P3 dated 30.4.2007, specifically refer to the five

3

recommendations contained in memorandum P2 and state same approvea ......

The letter P7 as stated above is a letter addressed to the 3rd

Petitioner which in it's last sentence state that there is no necessity to establish a

separate service for the 'In Service Advisers'. (C5J6~ ea@~GD~e)6~ e5CC,e5») @e)e5)@

@e3e))e)~ Cf~§ l5)B@@ Cfe)GD2Seme)~ a~e5) @e5))e5)@e5) Q)e) ~)6~~~e) ~eDe)@) The all

important question that need to be decided in this writ application for Writs of

Certiorari/Mandamus is whether, notwithstanding the relief sought, the position

posed in letter P7, has clearly addressed the recommendation in P2 and the

decision in P3 and as stated therein is no necessity or the need does not arise to

establish a separate service. In that context does the writer of letter P7 on behalf

of 2nd to 14th Respondents, have the right/authority/power and or jurisdiction to

either directly or indirectly or knowingly or unknowingly or wi"ingly or unwilling

express another view, different to which was specifically approved by the Cabinet

of Ministers co"ectively by P2 and P3? Both P2 & P3 were not revoked or

amended by the Cabinet of Ministers subsequently. Further in the above

circumstances can this court grant a Writ of Mandamus in the manner prayed for

in the amended petition?

, . 4

We had the benefit to hear both learned counsel on either side and

peruse their written ··submissions. The learhed cour'fsel for the Petitioners

submitted inter alia that the Petitioners functions are different and significant to

those functions of the teaching profession. i.e as "Teacher Counselors" the

Petitioners do not get involved in the exercise of teaching students directly. What

they do is to teach and provide guidance to teachers performing functions of

teaching students.

The learned counsel for the Petitioner drew the attention of this

court to memorandum P2 and the Cabinet Decision P3. He referred to the 5

recommendations in document P2 and to certain other matters contained in the

said memorandum, and emphasized that by Cabinet approval P3 Cabinet in no

uncertain terms decided upon a creation of a separate service for the Petitioners.

Learned Counsel stressed the point that a Cabinet Decision can only be revoked or

amended only by the Cabinet of Ministers and it is ultra vires their powers for the

3rd to 14th Respondents to decide contrary to the Cabinet Decision P3 and issue

letter P7. The above Cabinet Decision has not been changed or altered ana it is

irrelevant, that the National Salaries & Cadre Commissions' position that the

Petitioners were recommended, and that they be placed in the Supra Grade of

the Teaching Service.

" 5

In the written submissions of the Petitioners there is reference to the

Respondent's documents, more particularly to 1R9 which the Respondents

maintain had the effect of revoking the above Cabinet Decision (P3). Petitioner

contend that removal of salary anomalies of the two services cannot affect the

establishment of an "In Service Advisory Service". In any event the Petitioner

Union had not been consulted at any point of time with regard to the decisions

contained in the Respondents documents, submitted to this court. Nor does

document P7 state specifically of a revocation of Cabinet Decision P3 or any

reference to P2.

Petitioners contend that those who made the Cabinet Decision 1R9

and the various committees appointed to look into the questions of the

grievances of teachers never consulted the 1st Petitioner union, and consider the

demands of the lin Service Advisers'. Report 1R4 makes no reference to the 1st

Petitioner Union.

In the light of approvals given by the Cabinet of Ministers (P3) the

task of the learned Deputy Solicitor General to impress this court was no easy

task. However at the very outset the learned Deputy Solicitor General thought it

fit to submit to court that the current policy approval by the Cabinet of Ministers

6

was to include the teachers deemed In Services Advisers, in the newly created

Supra Grade of the Teacher Service. I wonder whether the idea of a separate

service for the 1st Petitioner Union as in documents P2 & P3, had been completely

ignored or rejected by another decision of Cabinet of Ministers? Or whether the

court was called upon to surmise an inclusion of a separate service for the

Petitioners by placing them in the Supra Grade?

Learned Deputy Solicitor General referred to condition NO.4 of P2,

and states that the said condition in P2 contemplates to absorb "Teachers" to

such service with effect from 01.01.2005 (back date) and place them on a salary

scale T5 1, T6 1 & T7 1, a salary step existing a decade earlier. It is further

explained by referring to letter 1R5 (Pgs. 5 & 6). Letter 1R5 (Pg.5) is somewhat

critical of memorandum P2, but attempting to refer to discussion with H. E the

President of the Republic, (Pg.6) regarding a unified service for the education

service, with a new service minute and salary scale. It was also submitted on

behalf of the Respondents that the Cabinet of Ministers had considered 1R5 along

with a cabinet paper of 30.8.2007.

Respondents states that 1R4 (B.G. Karunaratne report) was released

and the National Salaries and Cadres Committee submitted report R7. Based on

I

7

above the Minister of Education on 26.8.2008 submitted a Cabinet paper lR8

which was approved on 27.8.2008 (lR9). Learned Deputy Solicitor General argues

that by the approval given by lR9 which includes the In Services Teachers' to the

Supra Grade of Teachers Service effectively overruled the decision contained in

Cabinet Decision P3 of 18.4.2007. Further it is submitted that the same Minister

of Education who presented both Cabinet Memorandum and as such the

subsequent Cabinet Decision lR9 effectively revoked earlier Cabinet Decision 1>3.

The question that more particularly has to be addressed is whether

the Cabinet Decision lR9 has specifically revoked the Cabinet Decision contained

in P3. The focus in decision lR9, is the removal of salary anomalies in the Sri

Lanka Teachers Service and the Sri Lanka Principals Service. This seems to be the

main idea for which the Cabinet of Ministers by lR9 gave its approval, consequent

upon several representations made by several unions (except 1st Petitioner, and

the B.G. Karunaratne report. If the decision in document P3 was to be revoked

the Cabinet Decision lR9 could have stated so without any difficulty. It has not

been done. As such this court cannot conclude that even by implication the

decision in P3 had been revoked although the Respondent party now attempt to

demonstrate with reference to other documents and discussions that the

authorities concerned had done away with the decision in P3. This court obs@rves

It

\

8

that it is only the Cabinet of Ministers that can change a decision and not any

other person in authority.

This court observes that the several documents relied upon by the

Respondents do not address the issue in a meaningful manner or had made any

attempt to notify the Cabinet of Ministers through proper channels to revoke

decision P3. Instead in Pg. S (middle) of iRS the National Salaries and Carder

Committee being critical, merely state that a creation of a separate service cannot

be understood, when the Minister of Education has made the following

observation in Memorandum P2.

P2 of 28.3.2007 under the heading "Establishment of In Service

Advisors' Service ...

Monitoring is the strategic priority service in the process of human resource

development and in the fruitful management of the physical resources. In

developed countries in the world monitoring has been placed as a

compulsory service of teacher education programs in the qualitative

learning teaching process. For this purpose a group of officers endowed

with service experience and professional experiences are deployed . In Sri

Lanka this task is accomplished by in Service Advisors.

I

I

II i!

1 I I

9

In the dynamic world large scale changes are effected relatin n to

curriculum, syllabi, learning teaching and evaluation owing to rapid

development of knowledge and global expansion in the field of information

technology. Accordingly, the availability of a facilitator as well as a guide is

very essential for the development of teaching and evaluation process of

the teacher. In service Advisors belong to the group that provide counseling

for the role of the teacher and for the student's learning process.

Specially the In Service Advisor is functioning as the main communicator in

introducing New Education Reforms to the class room, as a Counselor for

teachers relating to new methodologies and a provider of awareness for the

community relating to new concepts and in many instances and as a trainer

in the field of education.

For the first time in Sri Lanka this Service was started in year 1962 titled as

"In Service Teacher Advisors Service". A group possessing higher

educational and professional qualifications and a seniority in teachers'

service and having a wealth of experience was selected for this service by

conducting a written examination and an interview. In all instances of

implementing important Education Reforms these In Service Advisors had

rendered a unique service and therefore recruitments to this Service had

been made by conducting National Level Examinations in years 1962, 1965,

1967, 1972, 1981, 1985, 1990, 1991, 1992, 1994, 1996 and 1998. After year

1998 recruitments have been made by the Provi8ncials as weI/, based on

their Provincial requirements.

II

10

In the above circumstances this court is of the view that the above

committee comprising of 3rd to 14th Respondents have exceeded their authority

and acted beyond their jurisdiction by issuing letter P7. There are numerous

instances where courts have granted the remedy of certiorari where it was found

as a pure matter of law, the doing of what was in fact done by the Respondents

concerned was not empowered by law to do some act, and certiorari was issued

to quash an order made ultra views. The following case laws to be noted.

Principles of Administrative Law in Sri Lanka 3rd Edition Vol. 2.

Dr. Cooray ..

Pgs 808/809 ...

At the conclusion of an inquiry held before an Assistant Director of Customs he ordered

the forfeiture of a motor vehicle on the basis that the conditions subject to which it had

been imported free of customs duty into Sri Lanka had been violated. Thereafter on the

application of the importer the Director General of Customs made order releasing the

motor vehicle to the importer on payment of total fiscal levies leviable as if the vehicle

had been cleared under the normal law. Agreeing with the Petitioner's contention that

the Director General of Customs had no power under the law to make such an order,

the Court of Appeal issued certiorari to quash it. Bangamuwa v. Senaratne, Director

General of Customs (2000) 1 SLR 106.

The Board of Governors, Zahira College, the 1st respondent, had decided to allow the 2nd

respondent to run another school in the premises of Zahira College. Holding that the 1st

11

respondent had acted ultra vires its statutory powers the Court of Appeal issued

certiorari to quash that decision.

Pgs. 814/815 ...

Certiorari has issued on numerous other occasions where it was found that the

impugned exercise of power was ultra vires and therefore invalid. On some of those

occasions the court expressly formulated the ground on which it issued certiorari to

quash an order, namely that such order was ultra vires, Kotakadeniya v. kodituwakku

(2000) 2 SLR 175 on other occasions court has issued certiorari to quash an order

without expressly formulating its finding that such order was ultra vires Devananda v.

Dayananda Dissanayake (2000) 3 SLR 127.

In the above circumstances we are of the view that a Writ of

Certiorari need to be issued in this application as prayed for in the prayer to the

petition. We will now proceed to consider the issuance of a Writ of Mandamus.

No doubt the Cabinet Decision P3, stands and remains unaltered.

Decision in P7, P3 and recommendation P2 were all made in the year

2007 and 2008 (P7). As at the date of delivery of this judgment over 5 years have

lapsed from the said dates. This court is mindful of condition No.4 in P3, which

cannot apply today but a salary scale corresponding to same as at today would

have to be paid. In any event Respondents state that the Petitioners are placed in I

III

I I i

12

the Supra Grade salary. Cabinet decision lR9 relate to salary anomalies in the

teacher service and "the principals ""service. Such cha-nges effected in the

educational service subsequent to the decision in P3, (though does not directly

effect P3) may have an impact and cause some administrative inconvenience in

the field of education. If this court had the opportunity to deliver this judgment

no sooner P7 was issued there could be no bar to grant a Writ of Mandamus.

However This court is reluctant to grant the remedy by way of Mandamus in view

of the above observations, although the Petitioners have a legal right flowing

from Cabinet Decision P3 and would have been entitled to demand the

performance of a legal duty from the Respondent, against whom mandamus was

sought. As such it would amount to a futile exercise if the Writ of Mandamus is

issued at this point of time. On the other hand grave public/administrative

inconvenience would be a ground to refuse a prerogative writ, although the term

itself may be incapable of precise definition.

Ii

r i ! l

t IIi t ! l

I

I

• 13

In all the above facts and circumstances we allow only a Writ of

Certiorari as prayed for in sub paragraph (b) of the prayer to the amended

petition with costs.

Application allowed as above.

H. N. J. Perera J.

I agree.

Wl

~CrLlJ~ ~ J GE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL

+t ~ _. -----, =-=------ --JUDGE Of THE COUftT OF APPEAL --=-

l i II Ii

\ II

\

i f f

f