==== BLOCKS ==== 

IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA C.A 86/2013 H.C. Monaragala 74/2011

A.D. Sunil Kumara Dobagahawela.

Appellant Vs. Hon Attorney General, Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12.

Respondent

1

C.A 86/2013 H.C. Monaragala 74/2011.

Before : H.N.J. Perera J &

K.K. Wickramasinghe, J

Counsel : Indika Mallawarachchi for the Accused-Appellant.

Kapila Waidyarathne A.S.G for the State.

Accused-Appellant is present in court produced by the

Prison Authorities.

Argued &

Decided on

H.N.J. Perera, J.

25.05.2015.

Counsel for the Accused-Appellant infonns court that she will

confine this appeal to the sentence imposed by the learned High Court

Judge on the accused-appellant and also submits that she is not

contesting the 15 years jail tenn imposed by the learned High Court

Judge on the accused-appellant. She moves this court to consider the jail

tenn imposed by the learned High Court Judge in default of the fme and

the compensation ordered to be paid to the victim. The learned High

Court Judge has imposed a fme of Rs. 50,000/- and in lieu of tenn of 5

years rigorous imprisonment. Further, the accused-appellant has been

ordered to pay Rs.200,000/- as compensation to be paid to the victim in

this case and in lieu of 5 years rigorous imprisonment.

Learned Counsel for the Respondent leave the sentence in the

hands of court. Counsel for the Accused -Appellant submits that as

•

2

Accused - Appellant is not contesting the other matters in this case to

consider back dating the sentence from the date of conviction. Learned

counsel for the Respondent vehemently object to the other application of

the Counsel for the accused appellant to back date the sentence from the

date of conviction. After considering the facts and circumstances and

submissions of the counsel for the Accused -Appellant, we substitute a

term of six months rigorous imprisonment in lieu of term of imprisonment

ordered by the learned High Court Judge for failure of the accused to pay

Rs. 50,000 fine. We also substitute a term of one year rigorous

imprisonment in place of 5 years rigorous imprisonment ordered by the

learned High Court Judge to the accused-appellant in lieu of

compensation ordered to be paid to the victim in this case.

We see no reason to act under Section 359 of the Criminal

Procedure Code. Therefore subject to the said variation in terms of

imprisonments in lieu of the fine and the compensation, the appeal is

dismissed.

Appeal dismissed.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

I agree. K.K. Wickramasinghe, J.

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL.

V1cg/-